about tim ferriss tim ferriss is one of fast company’s “most innovative business people” and an early-stage tech investor/advisor in uber, facebook, twitter, shopify, duolingo, alibaba, and 50+ other companies. he is also the author of five #1 new york times and wall street journal bestsellers: the 4-hour workweek, the 4-hour body, the 4-hour chef, tools of titans and tribe of mentors. the observer and other media have named him “the oprah of audio” due to the influence of his podcast, the tim ferriss show, which has exceeded 400 million downloads and been selected for “best of itunes” three years running. by #1 nyt and wsj bestselling author, tim ferriss here's what you will get: every friday, i send out an exclusive email with the five coolest things i’ve found (or explored) that week. it could include exclusive giveaways or chances to interact with me, books, gadgets, albums, articles, new hacks/tricks, and — of course — all sorts of weird stuff i dig up around the world. these “5-bullet friday” emails are only available if you subscribe to my e-mail newsletter. yes, sign me up for tim's free email newsletter. i agree to the privacy policy terms linked below. get access get exclusive content, private q&as, giveaways, and more. no spam, ever. emails are never shared. see the full privacy policy here. enter your email and get the 5 things i've been loving, using, and reading. get the 5 things i've been loving, using, and reading: books, gadgets, hacks, and more. 1,500+ 5-star reviews, top-10 'most highlighted' book of all time amazon "the most surprising self-help hit of the decade." men's journal "[tim ferriss is] the superman of silicon valley." wired "a cross between jack welch and a buddhist monk." new york times featured in: to stay in contact, we give you the choice to provide us your email address. by exercising that choice, you consent to our use of your email address to stay in touch with you, as provided in our privacy policy. if you are entitled to protections under the new general data protection regulation (gdpr), we treat that as consent under article 7 of the gdpr. you are always entitled to withdraw your consent by following our email directions to unsubscribe. all elements © 2020 timothy ferriss | terms.