kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! “what i learned when my husband got sick with coronavirus” posted by jason kottke mar 25, 2020 today’s must-read is what i learned when my husband got sick with coronavirus by ny times editor jessica lustig. if you’re on the fence about whether covid-19 is worth all this fuss, lustig’s account of caring for her gravely ill husband in a brooklyn apartment while trying to keep herself and their daughter from getting sick should help straighten out your thinking. now we live in a world in which i have planned with his doctor which emergency room we should head to if t suddenly gets worse, a world in which i am suddenly afraid we won’t have enough of the few things tempering the raging fever and soaking sweats and severe aches wracking him — the advil and tylenol that the doctors advise us to layer, one after the other, and that i scroll through websites searching for, seeing “out of stock” again and again. we are living inside the news stories of testing, quarantine, shortages and the disease’s progression. a friend scours the nearby stores and drops off a bunch of bodega packets of tylenol. another finds a bottle at a more remote pharmacy and drops it off, a golden prize i treasure against the feverish nights to come. his doctor calls three days later to say the test is positive. i find t lying on his side, reading an article about the surge in confirmed cases in new york state. he is reading stories of people being hospitalized, people being put on ventilators to breathe, people dying, sick with the same virus that is attacking him from the inside now. this is a rough read, no doubt about it. i started crying at the part about his father’s sweater. more about... covid-19 crying at work jessica lustig medicine ads via carbon kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives