solutions referral marketing affiliate marketing influencer marketing partner marketing plans resources case studies & testimonials ebooks reports webinars formulas culture agency partners blog login request a demo solutions plans resources culture agency partners blog login request a demo deliver the best referral program experience streamline referrals from customers, affiliates, influencers, and partners with our word-of-mouth marketing technology request demo ambassador drives impactful growth 10m+ brand ambassadors registered 38m+ referral touchpoints created $2b+ referral ltv generated referral marketing made easy creating a powerful referral strategy has never been simpler referral marketing empower your customers to share your products and services with their friends, generating more of your best customers, faster. learn more affiliate marketing give access to a turnkey platform that provides all the necessary links, content, payouts, and statistics your affiliates need. learn more partner marketing easily engage with and manage your influencers with personalized share links, marketing assets, and detailed analytics. learn more influencer marketing empower your customers to share your products and services with their friends, generating more of your best customers, faster. learn more all-in-one referral software the referral platform powering the world’s best customer, affiliate, influencer, and partner experiences build and scale your program simplify the manual intricacies of running a program with automated word-of-mouth marketing technology. ambassador’s intuitive interface puts you in control to create and grow one - or multiple - programs. cohesive brand experience you've built a brand that your audience knows and loves, so it's important to keep the experience consistent across all touch points. custom, tailored, personalized, and white-labeled - let’s create a seamless experience together. your success is our success our industry-leading success coaches have launched thousands of programs for companies spanning across industries, program types, and businesses. they're here to help you optimize your referral efforts and maximize roi every step of the way. optimize all your efforts analyze actionable performance data and get smarter with every program that runs on ambassador’s powerful, yet easy-to-use, system. understand what works best to continuously improve - and drive more sales. visibility from start to win when you have complete visibility, you can do more with your marketing. from identifying and enrolling members into your programs to tracking activity and attribution, our powerful technology enables you to easily manage your programs and automate payouts all from one central place. real results from innovative brands using ambassador learn how marketers are lowering acquisition costs by generating more referrals at scale "ambassador’s technical aptitude is top-notch. the team truly understands referral marketing, the product is very high quality, and the benefits we're seeing far outweigh the costs. i would absolutely recommend ambassador to other large organizations." tatiana torres product manager "ambassador is the right blend of power and simplicity. we are using the referral marketing platform and seeing incredible results with our affiliate program." alberto horihuela co-founder "if all of our website traffic converted like our referrals do, we'd be generating more than twice as many customers." aj renick director of acquisition and analytics "ambassador is an awesome marketing partner for us. the product is very flexible and does everything we need, plus much more. and ambassador's success team is always on top of it; it's great to work with true experts." sean callaghan manager, crm get start now ready to drive more referrals? let’s talk about how we can help build, automate, and scale your referral program. request demo never stop learning become a better marketer with these best practices from our experts webinar scaling business growth with partner marketing e-book the definitive guide to referral marketing report b2b software & services report formula affiliate marketing formula for success get best practices in your inbox join over 80,000 marketing professionals enrolled in ambassador academy. enroll now to receive best practices, strategies, and expert tips, delivered by email. solutions referral marketing affiliate program influencer marketing partner program product plans integrations knowledge base developers refer a friend become a partner company about us resources blog talent experience inside the embassy careers we're hiring! connect request a demo contact us support press copyright © 2020 intrado all rights reserved. view our terms, privacy, and responsible disclosure policies.