#1 seo company! top search engine optimization marketing services think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 search engine optimization last year, our clients saw a 200%+ boost in site traffic. get started now seo results traxpayroll 508% increase in mobile traffic 153% increase in organic site traffic 120% increase in total site traffic a&a thermal spray 110% increase in total site traffic 118% increase in organic site traffic 17% decreased bounce rate global gold and silver 508% increase in mobile traffic 153% increase in organic site traffic 120% increase in total site traffic why choose smartsites for search engine optimization increase online awareness everyone is searching for products or services on search engines. businesses need seo search engine optimization is still an important and effective online marketing strategy. laser-focused team we implement seo best practices to drive traffic to your website(s). tap on the potential of search giants get your website listed on the leading pages of search engine results! dazzling reviews we have achieved a reputable track record of running top-performing search engine optimization campaigns. delivering exceptional roi our team works diligently to ensure the best possible return on investment for your seo investment. a positive jump in rankings don’t believe the naysayers. it is possible to improve your rankings when it comes to search engine optimization! monthly seo reports track the performance of your seo campaigns with exceptional ease. strategy meetings we can schedule strategic calls and meetings to assess your changing seo requirements. content planning & creation we help you decide which is the best content to publish to drive greater seo success. white-hat seo techniques we have been implementing white-hat seo practices from day one. small business advocates we are passionate about helping small businesses grow. top rated seo management clients rave about our fantastic results, starting from the initial seo research and through to campaign execution. our seo plans deliver long-term value to your business. vladimir byhovsky, owner studio esthetique we recently expanded our third location in manhattan and continue to drive appointments through the digital marketing. valerie powers, senior product manager concierge key health a great partner for anything web related - especially websites and seo. always impressive and goes above and beyond. william woo, councilman englewood cliffs news smartsites is a one stop shop to outsource your website, online marketing and also content. richard brunhouse, vice president a & a coatings i highly and personally recommend smartsites to anyone who is in the market for the services that they offer. kevin burns, coo anexio in a very methodical fashion, they redesigned our website, wrote the necessary content, and launched the seo program. seo services how smartsites performs search engine optimization what you need to know about search engine optimization (seo) technical specification people & process what is search engine optimization? seo is a methodology for growing a website’s visibility. they are also known as the unpaid results that are shown in search engine result pages. seo involves creative and technical fundamentals to improve rankings and increase awareness of sites in search engines. how does search engine optimization work? seo works on the principal of satisfying search engine algorithms. search engines use algorithms to analyze and sort websites. the websites that match the algorithms with the highest relevancy get to top spots in search results. the algorithms are decoded by search engine optimizers. our seo specialists can put you at the top of search lists in order to gain more traffic to your website. do i need seo in my website? even though social media can generate visits to your site, web traffic is mostly driven by major search engines like yahoo!, bing and google. search engines provide targeted traffic – which are people looking for what you offer, thus making search engines unique. what is the importance of seo? seo provides unmatched insight into your customers. it’s a marketing strategy that can make a business become competitively advantaged. seo works forever. it never goes off, thus providing lasting promotion for organizations. seo is among the most cost-effective marketing methods. seo leads to increased sales. is my site seo-friendly? if you have developed the site yourself and do not have marketing skills, then it is unlikely that your site has adequate or effective search engine optimization practices in place. our dedicated team takes great pride in their site optimization skills. they can review your site and suggest changes that can be performed on your behalf at a reasonable price. do you use software to acquire links? no, we do not use software to acquire links. links are acquired manually by a real person. however, we do use leading seo tools such as seomoz, ahrefs, and majestic seo to discover, research, and analyze potential links. how will you assess my site? there are a number for factors involved in assessing your site. for example, we will need to undertake an analysis of on-site keywords, meta tags, keyword research for your target market, sitemap strategy, undertake an assessment of competitors websites, your goals and objectives, etc. we can take you through the whole process of search engine optimization, or we can carry out an assessment of your site for you and implement strategies designed to get your site into prime position. what are your payment terms? seo services are a fixed monthly fee based on your target market and business goals.give us a call at (201) 448-9010 to receive your customized strategy along with our suggested investment and performance expectations. get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha phone this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated after a nightmare experience with other marketing companies, i finally found a hard working group who actually know what they are doing. they handle all of my ads as and designed a website. business has doubled since we started. looking forward to more success. agape health wellness center dr. larry bennett view 100+ more testimonials i had a great experience working with smartsites and wouldn’t hesitate to recommend them. the level of customer service, marketing skills, and efficiency was beyond the scope of my expectations! perfect dashboard bartek jaz view 100+ more testimonials they did a great job and i noticed the positive results almost immediately. they are professional and very pleasant to work with. they had responded to all my emails within 1 hour window. i am very happy with the services provided and i highly recommend to everyone. new jersey mediation maryana kanda view 100+ more testimonials smartsites is a one stop shop to outsource your website, online marketing and also content. the staff is very knowledgeable and also responsive. englewood cliffs news william woo view 100+ more testimonials excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials mike and his team proved to be an invaluable resource. smartsites was there to ensure that the final product matched our vision perfectly. they take the time to learn their clients’ business inside and out, and are a key part of the team every step of the way. sharemoney steven taylor view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: services search engine optimization recent seo posts posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read posted on february 20, 2020 how has the increased use of voice search affected seo? read posted on january 17, 2020 on-brand seo copywriting drives conversions read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect