skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation home / video screencasts / #142: hiding things with css #142: hiding things with css author chris coyier comments go to comments published oct 16, 2015 personalized marketing with mailchimp there isn't just a single css property that you reach for when hiding and showing things in css. there are a bunch of considerations that we'll go over in this video. for instance, there is the display property in which display: none; is very effective at hiding things. but it will hide that element from assistive technology as well, and you don't always want that, like a dropdown navigation menu (the dropdowns are visually hidden but shouldn't be hidden from assistive technology). and display isn't transitionable either, so if you want to fade in / fade out that element with transition, that's out. unless you involve javascript to apply that property only after the transition has happened. what is transitionable? opacity is, and turns out visibility is too. this combination is pretty useful together, as once an element has visibility: hidden; it doesn't interfere with events like clicks/taps. this combo doesn't take the element out of page flow though, which can be useful or not useful. the position property might be useful in those circumstances. see - so much to think about! our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. this comment thread is closed. if you have important information to share, please contact us. how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers