markets tech media success video markets premarkets dow 30 after-hours market movers fear & greed world markets investing markets now before the bell leading indicator global energy challenge economy energy tech innovate gadget mission: ahead upstarts business evolved work transformed innovative cities unhackable media reliable sources success boss files fresh money cars homes biz + leisure center piece perspectives video international switzerland india davos passion to portfolio on: germany more newsletters about us accessibility and cc u.s. world politics business opinion health entertainment tech style travel sports video shop vr more... follow cnn business do not sell 'all the money in the world' controversy: mark wahlberg reportedly paid way more than michelle williams for reshoot by lisa france @cnnmoney january 10, 2018: 5:20 pm et report: actress paid less than 1% of co-star's paycheck hollywood was abuzz wednesday with chatter about a report that said actress michelle williams received less than 1% of mark wahlberg's paycheck for reshoots of their film, "all the money in the world." usa today reported tuesday that wahlberg was paid $1.5 million to reshoot his scenes, while williams received a per diem of $80 per day, totaling less than $1,000. cnnmoney has reached out to for wahlberg and williams' representatives for comment. it's not clear if williams is aware that her co-star was paid more for reshooting the scenes, but she told usa today in december that she was willing to do what needed to be done for the reshoot. scott told the newspaper then, "everyone did it for nothing." cnnmoney has also reached out to scott for comment. "i said i'd be wherever they needed me, whenever they needed me," she told usa today at the time. "and they could have my salary, they could have my holiday, whatever they wanted. because i appreciated so much that they were making this massive effort." actress jessica chastain tweeted her support of williams, asking fans to "please go see michelle's performance in all the money in the world." "she's a brilliant oscar nominated golden globe winning actress," chastain tweeted on tuesday. "she has been in the industry for 20 yrs. she deserves more than 1% of her male costar's salary." please go see michelle's performance in all the money in the world. she's a brilliant oscar nominated golden globe winning actress. she has been in the industry for 20 yrs. she deserves more than 1% of her male costar' s salary. https://t.co/hiniew6lf7 — jessica chastain (@jes_chastain) january 10, 2018 other actresses including mia farrow, amber tamblyn and sophia bush also spoke out on social media against the reported pay disparity. williams and wahlberg are represented by the same talent agency, william morris endeavor, a detail that bush was quick to point on in her tweet. exposing the gross disparity in pay & hard evidence of the gender gap— negotiated by the same agents no less! — isn't a witch hunt. it's a demand for fair practices. one person suggesting he step up for a costar, or women in general, is just a suggestion. not a putin-level order. — sophia bush (@sophiabush) january 10, 2018 "exposing the gross disparity in pay & hard evidence of the gender gap— negotiated by the same agents no less! — isn't a witch hunt," bush tweeted. "it's a demand for fair practices." "all the money in the world" was produced by imperative entertainment and distributed by sony's tristar pictures. a source close to production says sony was not involved in talent pay negotiations. cnnmoney has reached out to imperative entertainment for comment. wahlberg is known in hollywood as a shrewd negotiator. the washington post reported in november the pay disparity for the reshoot and noted that "wahlberg, along with manager stephen levinson and agency wme, have a reputation in hollywood for driving a tough bargain." the post, citing sources close to the negotiations, reported then that wahlberg was paid at least $2 million for approximately 10 days of work. wahlberg was named hollywood's highest paid actor by forbes last year, raking in an estimated $68 million in the publication's 12-month scoring period. director ridley scott decided to reshoot scenes from "all the money in the world" that included kevin spacey after the oscar-winning actor was accused of sexual harassment and assault. the scandal started with anthony rapp, who told buzzfeed that spacey made a sexual advance toward the then 14-year-old rapp. he has also been accused of serial harassment throughout his career. spacey issued a statement saying he did not remember the alleged incident, but apologized for what he said would have been "inappropriate drunken behavior." actor christopher plummer replaced spacey in the role of billionaire jean paul getty in the film based on the real-life kidnapping of getty's grandson john paul getty iii. cnnmoney (new york) first published january 10, 2018: 12:43 pm et newsletter cnnmoney sponsors smartasset paid partner these are your 3 financial advisors near you this site finds and compares 3 financial advisors in your area check this off your list before retirement: talk to an advisor answer these questions to find the right financial advisor for you find cfps in your area in 5 minutes nextadvisor paid partner an insane card offering 0% interest until nearly 2020 transferring your balance to a 14-month 0% apr is ingenious the top 7 balance transfer credit cards on the market today get $300 back with this outrageous new credit card u.s crime + justice energy + environment extreme weather space + science world africa americas asia australia europe middle east uk politics 45 congress supreme court 2018 key races primary results business markets tech media success video opinion political op-eds social commentary health food fitness wellness parenting vital signs entertainment stars screen binge culture media tech innovate gadget mission: ahead upstarts innovative cities style arts design fashion architecture luxury autos video travel destinations food & drink play stay videos sports pro football college football basketball baseball soccer olympics video live tv digital studios cnn films hlntv schedule tv shows a-z cnnvr shop cnn underscored -explore -wellness -gadgets -lifestyle cnn store more... photos longform investigations cnn profiles cnn leadership cnn newsletters work for cnn most stock quote data provided by bats. market indices are shown in real time, except for the djia, which is delayed by two minutes. all times are et. disclaimer. morningstar: © 2019 morningstar, inc. all rights reserved. factset: factset research systems inc.2019. all rights reserved. chicago mercantile association: certain market data is the property of chicago mercantile exchange inc. and its licensors. all rights reserved. dow jones: the dow jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by dji opco, a subsidiary of s&p dow jones indices llc and have been licensed for use to s&p opco, llc and cnn. standard & poor's and s&p are registered trademarks of standard & poor's financial services llc and dow jones is a registered trademark of dow jones trademark holdings llc. all content of the dow jones branded indices © s&p dow jones indices llc 2019 and/or its affiliates. © 2019 cable news network. turner broadcasting system, inc. all rights reserved. cnn sans™ & © 2016 cable news network. newsletters contact us terms of use privacy policy do not sell cookie settings accessibiliy & cc adchoices