search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us fans have a heartbreaking theory about who will die next this. is. unacceptable. by emma dibdin 22/02/2018 ron batzdorff/nbc/nbcu photo bank via getty images this is us is currently on hiatus in the us, which was a wise decision given how much viewers have been put through the wringer lately. remember when jack pearson literally died on super bowl sunday, and then less than 48 hours later the episode of his funeral aired? we're still sending our therapy bills directly to nbc. but during the break, fans have come up with a devastating new theory about which of the pearson clan may be next to die: susan kelechi watson's beth, a.k.a one of the show's best characters, a.k.a one half of the show's most beloved power couple. nbc okay, so let's back up here. clearly, beth is alive and well and delivering killer comebacks in the show's present-day timeline. but refinery29 has pulled together an exhaustive rundown of the evidence for her not being around in the show's future, and although the clues are separately pretty tenuous, when you put them all together you do start to wonder. ron batzdorff/nbc/nbcu photo bank via getty image here's a summary of the key evidence: 1. beth is notably absent from that flash-forward with randall and tess in 'super bowl sunday'. now, that scene was incredibly brief, and there's no particular reason why beth would need to accompany randall on a visit to the 20-something tess's office. but eagle-eyed fans also spotted that randall's hands are hidden throughout the scene, and they were also conspicuously out of sight in this flash-forward picture that sterling k brown posted to instagram. view this post on instagram ready to see what the future holds? #thisisus a post shared by sterling brown (@sterlingkbrown) on feb 4, 2018 at 10:12pm pst we don't know, sterling. are we ready to see what the future holds? it doesn't necessarily follow that randall would stop wearing a wedding band if beth were to die, but he certainly might. there's a separate theory suggesting that beth and randall might also have got divorced sometime in between the 2018 timeline and this flash-forward, which is similarly devastating but hard to picture. 2. beth's father died of cancer. again, this doesn't really suggest anything about beth's fate, but in combination with the other evidence it could be something. in season one, beth bonded with william over a little marijuana shortly after he moved into the house, and she revealed that her father died of cancer when she was young. r29 speculates that she could be genetically predisposed to the same type of cancer that took her father's life at a young age. nbc 3. there's a blind item which could be pointing to beth. tvline's ask ausiello column recently ran a blind item which stated that "an extremely popular broadcast drama that's been on the air for less than three seasons" is considering a plot line that would have a "pivotal character" diagnosed with terminal cancer. the pool of less-than-three-year-old broadcast dramas that could be described as extremely popular is actually pretty small—this is us has been a significant breakout hit for nbc—so the show certainly feels like a strong bet for this blind item. ron batzdorff/nbc/nbcu photo bank via getty images then again, it's just as easy to imagine a different character being diagnosed, like rebecca (remember her cancer scare in the most recent episode?) so let's not jump to any conclusions. though it's far from a closed case, this is definitely kind of worrying. randall has already gone through so much loss, between william and jack and the birth mother he never knew, that it's pretty unbearable to imagine him losing beth — not to mention the impact this would have on tess, annie, and deja. viewers can only take so much, this is us. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. from: country living us advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know this is us us tv tv this is us season 2 gets a uk air date mandy moore's this is us is getting two more seasons this is us star says jack's death is 'soul-crushing' channel 4 picks up hit us drama this is us mandy moore: this is us super bowl episode has answers this is us star shares his "biggest heartbreak" on show us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising