the onion the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop american voices 1,000-bed hospital ships deployed to new york, la you may also like sports kawhi leonard misses second consecutive family game night citing load management 2 hours ago sports tom brady awakens from week-long kombucha bender to discover he’s a tampa bay buccaneer yesterday 9:30am local global pandemic that has killed thousands giving woman just the push she needed to organize tupperware cabinet today 12:41pm more from g/o media read on british royal family orders citizens to leave u.k. until prince charles recovers read on woman working from home instinctively tries to steal tampons from own bathroom read on 10 photos of plus-size models we deserve a pat on the back for running read on man just buying one of every cleaning product in case trump announces it’s coronavirus cure subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe yesterday 1:04pm • see more: opinion opinionvol 56 issue 12 the usns mercy and the usns comfort, each equipped with 12 operating rooms, 1,000 beds, and hundreds of medical professionals will deploy to america’s two biggest cities to treat patients so that local hospitals can focus on fighting the coronavirus. what do you think? “we need medical ships on the shores of all 50 states, asap.” jodhi burke • lint trap cleaner “didn’t boats get us into this whole mess in the first place?” wayne prettejohn • flower bed planner advertisement “now i’m going to be so disappointed if i get stuck dying in the regular hospital.” kevin olt • postmodern accountant share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion man reflects on cyclical nature of existence after learning mcdonald’s has stopped offering all-day breakfast once again u.s. economy grinds to halt as nation realizes money just a symbolic, mutually shared illusion thousands of formerly endangered white rhinos flood city streets mere days after humans quarantined indoors congress sets aside $1,200 in trust for each american until they prove they’re responsible enough to handle it share tweet