skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 10 amazing wordpress login plugins for your website 10 amazing wordpress login plugins for your website march 15, 2020 colorlibauthor plugins 0 comments the login or sign up section is essential to earn more users and visitors on your website. so, you need to make sure that you have wordpress login plugins to improve the experience of each audience. moreover, if you are running an online business. these types of plugins are essential to earning more potential clients. well, you don’t have to worry anymore. we’ve prepared login plugins that would help with your online website’s concerns. it can also help your page to have more security for hackers and some other intruders. we have curated items that are professional and free to use presenting each unique features and functionalities. rest assured, all of the curated wordpress login plugins are responsive and bug-free. they function well and assist in getting the login information of your visitors. nextend social login and register there are a lot of perks for using social media’s login information. first of all, it is hassle-free. instead of letting your visitors type all of their data, they just need to link their account to one of their social media accounts. aside from that, you are also saving yourself a lot of time. you don’t need to spend on codes or widgets to get the information you needed. furthermore, having this plugin doesn’t need to ask for email validation or anything that makes registration more complicated. of course, the users have the option to add or remove their social media account on your website. they also have the capability to login using multiple accounts. what’s more, using this plugin means you have full customization of designs and other aspects. you either use the login widgets or shortcodes. you can also edit or translate the texts on the login buttons. more info / download user registration this wordpress login plugin would be the most ideal for you to create a simple registrations form. you can also customize the form in any way you want. it has drag and drop fields that make the customization more straightforward and faster. most importantly, it is flexible, light-weight, and easy to use. you don’t need to go over complicated codes just to create the form. just install and activate this plugin to make it work. it has a fantastic front-end profile account page with ‘edit,’ ‘password change,’ ‘log out,’ and more options your visitors can interact with. users can review their information before submitting the form. you will also love the fact that it is 100% responsive and works on different devices. this plugin comes with the unlimited registration form, so you can allow multiple users in a day. moreover, it also has google recaptcha support to ensure that the computer user is a human. that will also help to prevent spams and abusive usage of your website. more info / download loginpress if you want to customize your login section, you surely need this plugin. it personalizes and changes the layout of your form to make it more appealing and enticing. there’s more, it also edits and improves the registration error messages, forgets password hint messages, and more. with the customizer api, it comes with live-previewing of the changes you made before completing the registration form. it requires no coding skills, and thankfully, you don’t have to hire and pay for an individual developer. this plugin will do the work for you when it comes to the login and registration section. you can also change the login logo, background, and layouts. it has welcome messages that you can customize from loginpress. more info / download super socializer instead of creating registration forms, why don’t you go for social login for instant sign up to your website? it is an excellent plugin to let your visitors link their social media accounts instantly. no filling out of information needed. you just have to install, activate, and customize to enable. however, take note that it doesn’t work with the local server. if you want to enable or integrate with facebook alone, you can install heateor login instead. on one side, if you only want to integrate with the facebook comments, you can activate the fancy comments. lastly, integrating with social share means installing sassy social share. its main features include gdpr compliance, gutenberg compatibility, mycred compatibility, free icon customization options, social sharing to 100 social networks, social media follow icons, and a lot more. more info / download custom login page customizer by colorlib if you are more into the personalized login page, then this wordpress login plugin is the most ideal for you. it comes with full features and functionalities to create an intuitive and responsive login section. it helps you to gain more users, and eventually drive more traffic on your website. this wordpress login plugin fully supports the live customizer to preview the changes you have made before completion. the tools are available in the dashboard section. go to the appearance menu > customize, then click the custom login page customizer. after that, you can do anything you want to layout your login page. the changes are up to you. it is easy-to-use, and you can create the form instantly. you can create your own login logo options, edit the login page, and customize types easily. you also have full control over the designs and layout according to your preferences. more info / download wordpress social login (facebook, google, twitter) you can integrate with different social media websites, such as wordpress, yahoo, salesforce, amazon, windows live, linkedin, facebook, google, twitter, and more. with the free version, you can get access to a lot of features and functionalities. you can use the app id and app secret to set up your own social login application for facebook and twitter. you can do some customization for logout redirect url, login redirect url, and text for social login icons. one of its features also comes with editing your icon, including the theme, shape, space, and size. users can verify their email through verification code. with this plugin, it is possible to sync the profile picture from earning a social media account to your website. aside from that, you’ll be receiving notifications when someone login through social media. moreover, you have the option to enable or disable this user registration anytime when you need it. more info / download ultimate member if you need a simple profile login or membership for your visitor, then this one will do the work for you. it is now more comfortable to sign-up with this fantastic plugin. it is also perfect for your community and membership website. a lot of visitors can create their accounts and expand your network. it comes with full features and functionalities. it has custom form fields, front-end user profiles, front-end user registration, conditional nav menus, content restriction, user emails, member directories, custom user roles, user account page, drag and drop form builder, limited logic form builder, and more. with this wordpress login plugin, it is now easier to create your own user-based website. it has incredible front-end elements that come with excellent admin functionality. to get the full features, you might opt with the essential extensions, such as private messages, followers, social activity, notices, and mycred. more info / download custom login page customizer customize your login page with this wordpress login plugin. you have the full control to make it pretty the way you like it. you will also love the preview feature for you to review first the changes you have made before saving and publishing it. there are only simple steps to get started. just go to your wordpress dashboard, click the appearance menu, and then hover and click the custom login page customizer. other than the layout of the login page, you can also customize its logo and change the color depending on your preference. you can style and edit the font to make it more visually appealing. the buttons are customizable for better appearance. at the login page, you can upload photos from your computer and import it on your website. moreover, you can choose the widget you want and in which part of the page you want to display it. more info / download login designer this login customizer is the perfect one for you to save yourself from the hassle. furthermore, you don’t need coding skills to do so. installation and activation are super easy. you have the full control to create your login page according to your likings. you can also preview the changes you’ve made before saving it. it is possible to customize the settings of this plugin while you can hide others to focus on customizing your login page. installation is quick and easy. there are a lot of default background options or pick from your computer files. another thing, it is hassle-free to edit or the logo and color as well. after some clicking and designing, you will probably love the way it looks. at the settings page, everything you need to create your login section is there. more info / download loginizer this plugin is the best one for you to maintain the security inside your website. that is if you need only a specific group of people to login on your site. with this one, you can set the maximum log in tries. it will block a person who reaches that maximum number. you can whitelist or blacklist a particular user using this plugin. with its recaptcha feature, it also ensures that all the computer users are human. it prevents your website from spam and abusive actions. it is entirely free, but if you want to get the full features and functionalities, you might want to opt with the pro versions. with the premium version, you’ll get features you can’t have anywhere. for example, it has passwordless login that allows users to login using the user’s email, then the user will receive the temporary link. it also has a login challenge question for additional security. more info / download the final takeaways so, what are your initial plans? do you want to create a customize login page or go with the social login for less hassle? or maybe you want to do both? it’s up to you. the wordpress login plugins listed above have the full features and functionalities you need. the pros of putting this plugin on your website are to secure real users. besides that, you’ll gain more visitors. it is also an advantage especially if you are running an online business. online users can help you to improve your website’s traffic. as a result, you’ll gain a better target market and generate better sales. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. custom loginfree pluginsloginlogin formslogin page share this share tweet pin it share related posts 16 must-have buddypress plugins for online communities 2020 wordpress serves as a platform for many different kinds of websites, including social networking sites.… 17 best custom login page generator plugins for wordpress 2020 why do we buy a wordpress theme? because we don't want our site to look… top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 looking to integrate google maps into your website? these popular google maps plugins for wordpress… wpjobboard plugin review: build a job board website with wordpress wpjobboard is a wordpress plugin for those who want to build their own online job… 30+ best free woocommerce plugins for wordpress 2020 woocommerce is a free plugin that teams up nicely with wordpress to help you sell… 11 best anti-spam plugins for wordpress to keep your site clean as a website owner, isn’t it exhilarating to see a growth in incoming traffic? sure… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: top 10 lightweight and easy to use wordpress youtube plugins next post: 10 responsive wordpress inventory management plugins we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×