start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising productivity smartcut advertising last updated on june 19, 2019 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement read full profile share pin it tweet share email there are two types of people in this world; one who wants to complete their work as early as possible and one who wants to delay it as much they can. the first category of this depicts ‘precrastinators’ and the latter one are termed as ‘procrastinators’. much has been researched and published about procrastination; most of the studies terming it as detrimental to one’s health and adding to stress levels. though, there are ‘procrastinating apologists’ as you would call them who proclaim there are a few benefits of it as well. but scientists have argued that the detriments of procrastination far outweigh the short-term benefits of it. everybody procrastinates, but not everybody is a procrastinator. procrastination is habitual, not situational. for an employee, it means piling up work until the end hours of their shift and then completing it in a hurry. for a student, it means not studying for an exam that is due the next week and cramming up the whole book one night before. if you fall into this category, do not worry, there have also been articles published and speeches given by successful leaders on how procrastinators aren’t so bad after all. here are 10 of the best ted talks about procrastination that will help you regain motivation: 1. inside the mind of a master procrastinator, by tim urban tim urban gives his funny uptake on procrastination and dives deep into how a procrastinator’s mind functions. he goes ahead and tells the audience about how ‘precrastinators’ have a rational decision-maker in their mind but in a procrastinator’s mind, there are two other entities existing — the ‘instant gratification monkey’ and ‘the panic monster’ advertising from the video, you will learn how to stay aware of the ‘instant gratification monkey’ whenever you have to complete a task. 2. the surprising habits of original thinkers, by adam grant in this video, adam grant builds on the concepts of ‘instant gratification monkey’ and ‘the panic monster,’ and marks a balance between ‘precrastinators’ and procrastinators giving existence to a productive and creative persona. he talks about how a lot of great personalities in the course of history were procrastinators giving an example of martin luther king jr. delaying the writing of his speech. ‘i have a dream’ was not in the script but was an original phrase by the leader; he opened himself to every possible avenue by not going with the script. you can learn about how one has to be different and better rather than be the first-mover, going deep into the correlation between original thinkers and procrastinators. 3. an end to procrastination, by archana murthy according to a survey,[1] 20% of americans are chronic procrastinators. study after study shows chronic procrastination isn’t just laziness and poor time-management, but is actually a byproduct of negative emotions such as guilt, anxiety, depression and low self-worth — which is different from the contrary belief. archana murthy gives us an insight into the procrastinator’s plight and provides ways to help the procrastinator in you. for a fellow procrastinator, you should check out her good advice on how to end it. advertising 4. why we procrastinate, by vik nithy vik nithy has already found 23 companies before coming to give his speech on procrastination. he puts forward the structure of our brain, showing the prefrontal cortex as the intelligent one telling us to complete the assignment due next day. procrastinators are threatened by complex work which gives them anxiety and that is where amygdala comes in telling us to find pleasure in other activities. going ahead, you’ll from him how to overcome procrastination i.e. planning for goals, time, resources, process, distractions, and for failure. 5. trust the procrastinator, by valerie brown frankly, this is one of the best speeches on procrastination given on the tedtalks platform. valerie brown tells us that we live in a society where every body wants everything right now and procrastinators aren’t in those ‘right-now’ people. she gives us an example of great procrastinators like leonardo da vinci, who regarded himself as a failure at one point of time and took 16 years to complete the mona lisa. she gives us another perspective on procrastinators that it isn’t necessarily bad for one’s career or health. 6. procrastination is the key to problem solving, by andrea jackson andrea jackson gives us her two categories of procrastinators: the accidental procrastinators and the deliberate procrastinators. she puts leonardo da vinci in the former category and thomas edison in the latter one. there is a part where she labels procrastinators as unlocking a supersonic jigsaw puzzle in their head when they procrastinate; it means bringing thousands of ideas in one’s head when one procrastinates and keeps thinking about it. she calls salvador dali and aristotle as deliberate procrastinators where they used to delay work in order to achieve a more creative result. advertising in this video, you’ll learn a new perspective about procrastinators. 7. the vaccination for procrastination, by bronwyn clee bronwyn clee takes us in the psychology of a procrastinator, telling us that fear stops us taking up new work. she shares how she taught herself to be a decision-maker and not to fear if she will be able to take an action or not. from this video, you will learn how to bring the change in yourself and end procrastination. 8. i’m not lazy, i’m procrastinating, by victoria gonzalez coming from a millennial, this is more relatable to the younger generation. victoria gonzalez tells us that procrastination has nothing do with time-management skills. in fact, a procrastinator puts off work but with an intention to complete it; lazy people are the opposite of that who don’t even try. 9. change anything! use skillpower over willpower, by ai wizler al wizler, cofounder of vitalsmarts, gives us an example of her mother’s smoking habits which she wanted to quit but she just couldn’t even after trying for years. eventually, she died of cancer. he reminds us to the need to take control of the forces that influence our decisions, rather than letting them take control of ourselves. advertising in this video, you’ll learn the importance of self-reflection, identifying your behaviours, and getting to work on it. 10. how to motivate yourself to change your behaviour, by tali sharot tali sharot, a neuroscientist explains how we behave when put through alternating situations. she has found that people get to work when they are rewarded for an action immediately. procrastinators can get themselves to work and reward themselves for it, which will lead to a change in their behaviour if they actually start that process of working sooner and completing it. in this video, you’ll learn about the role of celebrating small wins and tracking your progress when you’re trying to reach your goals. the bottom line procrastinators can find all kinds of advices on tedtalks. a few of them, defending the idea and proclaiming that it actually allows for a more creative process and one that people shouldn’t feel so guilty about. some of them, giving suggestions on how to put an end to it and making you a faster worker. it all depends on how you want to perceive it and if you want to, you can find the cure for this ailment. more about procrastination 8 dreadful effects of procrastination that can destroy your life why do people procrastinate? 9 reasons you can’t help procrastinating 11 practical ways to stop procrastination how to beat procrastination: 29 ways to beat it once and for all featured photo credit: han chau via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ american psychological association: psychology of procrastination: why people put off important tasks until the last minute share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated advertising advertising more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life how to stay consistent and realize your dreams advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.