start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising motivation mental strength advertising last updated on september 4, 2019 10 best inspirational books that can change your life leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email if you want to change your life, you are going to have to do things differently. and sometimes, you can look to inspirational books to create a positive change in your life. if you desire change, you are going to have to step out of your comfort zone. as anthony robbins points out: “all personal breakthroughs begin with a change in beliefs. so how do we change? the most effective way is to get your brain to associate massive pain to the old belief. you must feel deep in your gut that not only has this belief cost you pain in the past, but it’s costing you in the present and, ultimately, can only bring you pain in the future. then you must associate tremendous pleasure to the idea of adopting an empowering new belief” — anthony robbins in order to transform your life, you will experience discomfort and pain. change can be a painful process, but the rewards of going through the change are priceless. before i focused on running my own lifehack business, i was a full-time manager in a software company. i was offered another promotion after succeeding in a project. but i wasn’t thrilled about the opportunity. that was when i realized something wasn’t going quite right in my life. why would i not be excited about such valuable opportunity? wasn’t that what i wanted? i felt like all these times my effort in my job was wasted because it didn’t seem to be what i wanted most for my life. i was lost and didn’t know what to do, so i started to look for ways to get out of the rut. the shrinking free time remaining was spent poring over hundreds of books about motivation, productivity and communication. and through reading, i found my purpose in life and how to break free from my limitations to live the life i truly want. here’re the 10 books i recommend you reading too to get inspired. 1. awaken the giant within, by anthony robbins the inspirational message from this book is how you have the power right now to control how you think, how you feel, and what you do. anything you want or desire in your life, you already have the power to achieve it. “you and i have that same power at our disposal every moment of the day. at the moment, the questions that we ask ourselves can shape our perception of who we are, what we’re capable of, and what we’re willing to do to achieve our dreams” – anthony robbins print | ebook | audiobook 2. screw it lets do it: lessons in life, by richard branson advertising reading other people’s stories about their journeys in life can give you better perspective of what the journey of change can be about. richard branson is into reinvention and as a result, he embraces change. this book will fuel your enthusiasm to give things a go. it will show you how to sort out the self-limiting beliefs that stop you from stepping up and taking on the challenge of change. “as soon as something stops being fun, i think it’s time to move on. life is too short to be unhappy. waking up stressed and miserable is not a good way to live” – richard branson print | ebook | audiobook 3. the art of happiness, by dalai lama there is not a person i know who is not in the pursuit of happiness. “the art of happiness” is a book that will encourage you to practice the discipline of self-reflection.the more you reflect on your life, the deeper you look into your inner self (your soul). this is where you discover what happiness truly means to you. knowing what happiness means to you, gives you purpose. with purpose, you’ll have clarity, focus, and a vision. these are the foundations that will empower you to embark on the journey to change your life. “both these people illustrate the essential point that happiness is determined more by one’s state of mind than by external events.” – dalai lama print | ebook | audiobook 4. the four agreements, by don miguel ruiz “the four agreements” are don miguel’s code for life. “the four agreements” provide an inspirational code for life, for the way you handle your relationships, how you behave, and how you communicate with others. if you want to change your life, read “the four agreements”. this book will show you how to attain a happy fulfilled life. advertising “if you live in a past dream, you don’t enjoy what is happening right now because you will always wish it to be different than it is. there is no time to miss anyone or anything because you are alive. not enjoying what is happening right now is living in the past and being only half alive. this leads to self pity, suffering and tears.” – don miguel ruiz print | ebook | audiobook 5. the magic of thinking big, by david j schwartz according to dr schwartz, to create change in your life and to attain all that you desire, you need to change your thinking and your attitude. the importance of preparing your mind and your thinking for the journey of personal change is the key message of this book. “those who believe they can move mountains, do. those who believe they can’t, cannot. belief triggers the power to do.” – david j. schwartz. print | ebook | audiobook 6. reinventing the body, resurrecting the soul: how to create a new you, by deepak chopra deepak chopra believes that personal transformation not only involves the mind, but also your body and soul. according to chopra, you cannot transform your mind without transforming your body and soul. reading this book will encourage you to think about the potential energy force and power you hold within you. this energy grows when you are connected and aligned to your mind, body, and soul. “the key to transformation is that you create the change you want to see in yourself.” – deepak chopra print | ebook | audiobook 7. the greatest salesman in the world, by og mandino advertising this little classic has been around since 1968. have you ever wondered what truly successful people have in common? this book doesn’t really tell you how to be a great salesperson. it will; however, give you some fantastic tips on how to be an entrepreneur, how to self-motivate, and how to think like a successful person. the underlying message is the power of positive thinking – that you become what you think, say, and do. this book has great tactics for those of us in the process of change. “my dreams are worthless, my plans are dust, my goals are impossible. all are of no value unless they are followed by action.” – og mandino print | ebook | audiobook 8. don’t sweat the small stuff, by richard carlson this book helps you to manage the small stuff in your life that is usually creating the most pain in your life. this very supportive book is full of great practical suggestions on how you can live a more joyful and peaceful life. “true happiness comes not when we get rid of all of our problems, but when we change our relationship to them, when we see our problems as a potential source of awakening, opportunities to practice, and to learn.” – richard carlson print | audiobook 9. switch: how to change things when change is hard, by chip & dan heath have you ever tried to lose weight or get fit and never reached your goal? you know that you have to make changes in your life, but you don’t know how? if you are nodding in agreement, then you need to read “switch“. if i had to recommend one book that shows you how to create and maintain lasting change in your life – then it would be “switch“. in this book, chip and dan share the secret as to how you can create and sustain change in your life. advertising hint: it has something to do with knowing how to “direct the rider”, “motivate the elephant”, and “shape the path.” this book, without a doubt, will show you how to change your life. “when you’re at the beginning, don’t obsess about the middle, because the middle is going to look different once you get there. just look for a strong beginning and a strong ending and get moving.” – chip & dan heath print | ebook | audiobook 10. the gifts of imperfection, by brene brown do you ever feel that you are just not worthy enough, intelligent enough, or courageous enough to live a fulfilled happy life? do you have secret dreams that you hold deep inside of you that you don’t share in case someone thinks they are silly? or are you too scared to follow your dreams because you fear that you may fail? brene brown’s book, “the gifts of imperfection”, will show you how to find your courage, as well as rediscover your self-belief and self-worth. this is the book that will get you prepared to embark on your journey of change. “the gifts of imperfection” is about you learning how to let go of who you think you’re supposed to be and embrace who you are. “owning our story can be hard but not nearly as difficult as spending our lives running from it. embracing our vulnerabilities is risky but not nearly as dangerous as giving up on love and belonging and joy — the experiences that make us the most vulnerable. only when we are brave enough to explore the darkness will we discover the infinite power of our light.” – brene brown print | ebook | audiobook the bottom line these 10 books were key to helping me change my life. i rediscovered my purpose and my strength. i hope that by reading these books, you will find the same inspiration and motivation to your challenges in life. more great books 35 books on productivity and organizational skills for an effective life 11 life-changing books to help you build better habits 30 best productivity books you should read to boost your productivity i’ve read over 100 productivity books and summarized the 15 most important tips 15 best leadership books every leader must read to achieve success featured photo credit: thought catalog via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next i’ve read over 100 productivity books and summarized the 15 most important tips 11 life-changing books to help you build better habits the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) overcome fear and anxiety with these 4 mindset shifts you are not your thoughts: 10 ways to get rid of unhealthy thoughts advertising advertising podcast mental strength advertising last updated on march 26, 2020 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email in this episode of the lifehack show our guest is nicole lovald, former corporate addict turned yogi, life coach, and self-care advocate. she is the author of the book om sweet om: a corporate junkie's search for enlightenment . nicole has a background in counseling veterans, at-risk children, and victims of trauma as she has always been passionate about helping people overcome adversity and change their limiting beliefs into a more progress based mindset. here she shares her insights on how yoga can act as the ultimate form of stress relief and help you change your life. listen to the episode here: view on you tube featured photo credit: lāsma artmane via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.