wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » 10 best wordpress forum plugins (compared) 10 best wordpress forum plugins (compared) last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 356 shares share tweet share pin are you looking to add a community section on your wordpress site? forums and discussion boards are a great way to boost user engagement and build a community around your site. in this article, we’ve hand-picked the best wordpress forum plugins that you can use to build a community around your website or business. aside from the basic forum feature, we also made sure to find solutions that have advanced functionalities like question & answer board, custom social network feature, and more so you can build a community of your dreams. why create a forum on your wordpress site? online forums are an effective community-building tool where your website visitors can participate by posting questions, sharing solutions, new ideas, etc. your forum could be a q&a (question-and-answer) platform, discussion board, knowledge sharing space, or a problem-solving support zone. there are multiple advantages of adding a forum to your website. first, your wordpress forum software will help users engage and participate on your website. when they participate, they’re more likely to come back, buy your products, and recommend them to their friends and family. second, it’s one of the most common and effective ways to provide support to your customers. when your customers have a technical or generic support question, they can hop into the forum and check to see if the issue is already posted. if it’s a new problem, then they can post and get their problem solved. lastly, it gives some seo value to your website when a unique issue is discussed and the thread becomes popular. in many instances, forum threads outrank other types of content in search results. sometimes, the user-generated content makes more sense than formal posts on your blog. that being said, here’re the best plugins to add a forum to your wordpress website. note: you will need to have a wordpress website to use these plugins. if you want to start a new website, then you will need a domain and web hosting. we recommend using bluehost because they’re an official wordpress hosting provider, and they’re offering our users a free domain name and 60% off web hosting. 1. bbpress when it comes to integrating a forum into wordpress, bbpress is hands-down the best plugin for the job. it is a sister project of wordpress.org, which means that it’s built the wordpress way and uses the existing wordpress core to power your forum. bbpress is easy to set up, easy to moderate and maintain, fast, and clean. anyone can easily create a forum in wordpress using this plugin. if you need detailed instructions, we have a tutorial on how to set up bbpress in wordpress. pros built for wordpress, bbpress utilizes the same wordpress core and follows the same coding standards as wordpress. it integrates with any wordpress theme without painful modifications. there are also some excellent wordpress themes for bbpress that you can use. more than 200 bbpress extensions available to do just about anything you want. since it doesn’t have a lot of bloat, bbpress is fast and lightweight. you can easily create multisite forums and maintain them from one dashboard. it’s a free open source software, so you can use it unlimited for free. cons not as feature-rich as full-fledged forum cms like phpbb, vanilla forums. the core plugin has only the basic features, so you need to install additional extensions for more power. 2. buddypress buddypress allows you to build your own social network within wordpress. just like bbpress, buddypress is also an official wordpress plugin. it follows the same coding practices and standards as wordpress. with buddypress, you can create a full-fledged online community with user profiles, activity streams, user groups, messaging, and networking options. similar to facebook, it allows your users to add friends, send private messages, create groups, and get notifications. best of all, you can use buddypress and bbpress together and create a feature-rich online forum. pros easily integrates with any wordpress theme and plugin. hundreds of third party buddypress plugins and extensions to extend the functionality. lets you easily create a complete social network with activity streams, user profiles, social connections, groups, etc. it’s free and open source. download buddypress for free and use it on unlimited sites, and also get regular updates. cons the core plugin lacks advanced features that you may need to build a full-fledged online community. to extend its power, you’ll need to depend on third-party plugins. 3. forumengine forumengine is actually a wordpress theme which turns your wordpress site into a discussion forum. it’s a powerful theme built specifically for creating a forum in wordpress. the theme shows the forum threads right on your website homepage. with forumengine, you can create forums where users can interact in many ways like posting topics, questions, replying, liking or disliking a topic. it allows users to quickly search any topic in the list with ajax live search. it also provides a private space to your users where they can access and manage all their activities in the forum. pros it’s a full-fledged wordpress forum theme, so you won’t need to install any plugin to create a forum in wordpress. it provides plenty of styling options to change the appearance of your forum and make it look attractive. plenty of widgets for adding forum statistics, categories, hot topics, etc. allows you to display advertisements and earn extra income. cons it’s a forum specific theme, so it’s hard to create a regular business or ecommerce site with this. you can integrate it with your wordpress blog, but it doesn’t have options to display products, etc. it’s a paid theme. if you’ve limited budget, free options like bbpress and buddypress may be better options. 4. simple:press simple:press is a simple solution for adding a forum to your wordpress site. it comes with both free and premium versions, so you can choose the option according to your need. using simple:press, you can create unlimited forums, forum groups, sub-forums, private and public forums easily. you can also lock and pin any forum. to let you manage the users, it has a powerful user group and permission system. your users can create extended profiles with timezone, and a lot more. pros fully integrated into wordpress, supports wordpress registrations and logins. supports both standard wordpress and multisite installs as well. more than 70 premium plugins are available to extend its features. creates seo friendly permalinks and includes many seo features. cons the free version is fairly basic. you’ll need to purchase a premium plan to add advanced functionalities. 5. wpforo forum wpforo is a free wordpress forum plugin which comes with plenty of design and customization options. it features 3 design layouts for your forum: extended, simplified, and question and answer layout. each layout has a unique design and features. plus, there’re 6 set of forum color styles including dark style. using this plugin, you can easily create modern forums where your users can participate, get support, as well as contribute. users can post questions, give answers, vote, subscribe to topics, and receive notifications, share topics on social media, etc. pros available for free with options to extend functionalities by purchasing paid addons. built-in features for search engine optimization (seo), xml sitemap, caching, antispam, etc. smooth integration with buddypress to allow more social networking features. cons only basic features are granted in the free plugin. you’ll need to pay for advanced features like ad management, polls, user custom fields, private messaging, etc. the plugin settings are a bit complex for first time users. 6. asgaros forum asgaros forum is a simple wordpress forum plugin you can use on your live website. it’s the best forum plugin for anyone who is looking to add a lightweight forum page on their existing sites with ease. it’s super easy to setup and adds a feature-rich discussion board in wordpress. pros simple and lightweight forum plugin for beginners as well as professionals. simple yet powerful options available for content management, members, and permissions. forum statistics to let you see how well your forum is performing. multisite compatible plugin. cons it doesn’t have extensions to add more functionalities. 7. cm answers cm answers allows you to create a powerful q&a (question and answer) discussion forum in wordpress. the basic free plugin comes with enough features to quickly setup a stack exchange like forum on your website. it enables users to post questions, answer the questions, vote, upload files, subscribe categories, send private messages, etc. as the admin, you can customize questions, answers, filter out unwanted content, and manage the users. if you want additional features like anonymous posting and payments, you can buy the plugin addons. pros integrates seamlessly with most wordpress themes. users can vote on questions and answers. premium version has a lot more features including the ability to choose best answer, profiles, comments, social media login, etc. cons your forum is limited to q&a format. most useful features are available for the premium version. some reviews on the plugin’s page indicate that users found it difficult to use. 8. wp symposium pro wp symposium pro is an alternative to buddypress. you can create your own social network using this plugin. similar to buddypress or facebook, it allows your users to create profiles and activity wall, add friends, set email alerts, join forums, and more. the plugin is designed to work with any wordpress theme or plugin. this allows you to add it to an existing wordpress site. pros highly customizable through shortcodes – change colors, fonts, buttons, etc. easily. option to buy premium version or individual addons to add features. premium support available for paid version users. documentation with videos is available on plugin’s website to help you get started. cons many useful features need a premium plan. 9. dw question and answer dw question and answer enables you to create a complete q&a (question and answer) system on your wordpress site. if you’re thinking of creating a system like quora or stack overflow, dw question and answer is the right plugin to start with. unlike normal forum plugins, it allows your users to vote the answers, so that the best answer comes to the top and the less meaningful answers go to the end. for more details see our tutorial on how to create a question and answers site in wordpress. pros you can use the free plugin for creating a basic question answer system. advanced users can buy the premium version for more features. captcha support helps you to combat spam. great for providing support to your customers/ users. cons the free plugin lets you create just a simple forum in question and answer format. 10. discussion board wordpress discussion board is a free plugin you can use to create a forum. it’s easy to install and setup the plugin, so anyone can build a forum in wordpress without touching any code. using this plugin, you can allow front-end registration and login system to attract more users. to avoid spamming, it has options to restrict repost, moderation for comments, etc. pros discussion board theme specifically designed to go well with the plugin. you can also use this plugin with any theme you like. comes with plenty of handy shortcodes for displaying forms, list of topics, etc. a paid version available for adding more options and possibilities. cons the free version lacks powerful options. you’ll need to purchase their premium plan for many useful features. important advice on building a forum website regardless of your choice of online forum software, you will need extra hosting resources to run a successful online community. you can install all these wordpress forum plugins on a shared hosting plan. you can even run a forum quite effectively for a while on the same starter hosting package. if you are just starting out and want to test the waters, then we recommend using bluehost. they are one of the top hosting companies in the world and officially recommended wordpress hosting provider. however, as more visitors use your forum, it will slow down your website and may even crash it. in that case, you will need to upgrade to a managed wordpress hosting plan. we recommend using wpengine. they are one of the top managed wordpress hosting companies in the world. our second choice would be siteground. they are an officially recommended wordpress and bbpress hosting provider. need help moving your website? see our article on how to move wordpress to a new hosting server without any downtime. we hope this article helped you find the best forum plugins for wordpress. you may also want to see our handpicked list of best analytics solutions for wordpress users. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 356 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 34 commentsleave a reply jonathan says: nov 26, 2019 at 5:49 am is there not a forum that has facebook integration, so users can login and register with their facebook account? reply wpbeginner support says: nov 26, 2019 at 10:29 am for most of these plugins if you add a social registration plugin it will allow them to use that to create a user that way. otherwise, you would want to reach out to each plugin’s support for what they currently support. reply steve says: jun 11, 2019 at 3:42 pm i’m looking for a forum that will allow me to create password protected threads/forums. so only certain members or people with the password can gain access. any advice? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 12, 2019 at 10:36 am the plugin options in this list do have assisting plugins and similar to allow this, it would all depend on what other features you’re wanting. if you check with the plugins’ support and let them know what you’re wanting they should be able to let you know how good of a fit the plugin would be. reply paul barrett says: may 24, 2019 at 5:19 pm do any of these forum plugins allow posting or replying using email or do you know of one that does, please? reply wpbeginner support says: may 28, 2019 at 1:32 pm depending on how you are wanting the replies set up, you would want to reach out to the plugin’s supports for if they have that available. reply romno says: nov 5, 2018 at 8:19 am hi wpbeginner!, what do you suggestion in 2018? the bbpress is to outdated, the buddypress is not a forum. others are for q&a or doesn’t exists. please let me know if you have any suggestion in forum world… reply wpbeginner support says: nov 5, 2018 at 11:21 am hi romno, we would still recommend bbpress because it runs on top of wordpress, it is an official sister project, and it is quite easy to customize with the help of plugins. reply gopi says: jun 4, 2018 at 8:47 am can i integrate the laravel in wordpress? reply steven rosenbaum says: may 26, 2018 at 10:29 pm i like the comments on this blog, and they look clean on mobile as well. what plug in is being used for this comment section? reply wpbeginner support says: may 29, 2018 at 11:10 pm hi steven, we use a custom made theme for this website which is responsible for how comments look. reply willie kimani says: aug 1, 2017 at 2:55 am hi, is there a wordpress plugin that can enable me to have to forms but when i type in one form the other one replicates what im typing. or else can i be able to reflect certain parts of the form on another part of my page. kindly reply ashok says: apr 17, 2017 at 1:46 pm 3. wp symposium link not working shows error – oops! that page can’t be found. try searching from the field above, or go to the home page. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 19, 2017 at 9:16 am hey ashok, thank you for notifying us. we have updated the article with the new url. apparently, the plugin developers moved their plugin to a different url on .org plugin directory. reply justin says: feb 8, 2017 at 2:31 pm is there anything out there that simply takes the standard wordpress comments and not only posts on that specific post, but on a community/social feed wall? cutting out all the heavy extras in buddypress. thanks, j reply suleman says: nov 22, 2016 at 1:20 am have you tried any of the following, wpforo, muut, anspress, if so do you have a review if them ? reply wpbeginner support says: nov 25, 2016 at 8:16 pm no we haven’t tried them. reply jeff moyer says: oct 27, 2016 at 10:02 pm great list i am a fan of buddypress personally but all are worthwhile options…. reply innocent cyril says: aug 19, 2016 at 12:00 pm i like you content it is great thanks for this reply someone says: jun 7, 2016 at 9:25 am you could allow youtube to be fullscreen #justsaying, you can’t really see much on a 900-1000px width 2 column website with 1 inch paddings reply syaz amirin says: nov 14, 2016 at 10:25 am i know right! i can press the youtube button but i prefer to watch here but, the video resoultion is too small. reply jasper says: apr 13, 2016 at 5:48 pm thanks for the tips! are there any forum plugins that come with an integrated listserv? i need a forum that users can access online in the typical fashion or choose to interact with strictly through email. i would super grateful if you could give me some suggestions. reply travis says: mar 11, 2016 at 7:12 pm is there a plugin that creates a single discussion page equivalent to a facebook group page – not an entire forum? thanks!!! reply anand bv says: jul 6, 2015 at 12:46 pm is there any plug in to insert the comment section on my home page? i have it as seperate page but i needed on the home page. plz help! reply david says: jan 30, 2015 at 5:10 am hi there! 2 questions: 1) are all of these forum options available also in other languages (especially for the front end)? 2) do you know if it is possible to display google adsense inside all of these forum options? thank you david reply sandeep likhar says: jan 16, 2015 at 2:30 am thanks for sharing! which one is best from all of them? reply justin wilson says: dec 4, 2014 at 7:13 pm any of these easy to set up where it’s first an faq section at the top, and recent/popular questions below on the same page for more information? reply maria says: oct 4, 2014 at 7:16 am i want to add citation/references to my wordpress posts, ie. the resources i used to make a post. for that i need to add additional section at the bottom of my page. is there any plugin available through which i can do the same. reply wpbeginner staff says: jul 13, 2014 at 8:42 pm it depends alot on how phpbb forum is setup there is an importer plugin available which allows you to import phpbb3 into bbpress. see this page for known issues. reply abhisek padhi says: jul 10, 2014 at 5:13 am you didn’t include muut , my favorite. it surely deserves a place in your list. reply designwall says: jul 9, 2014 at 10:28 pm thanks for the article reply nevis1 says: jul 9, 2014 at 4:01 pm how easy would it be to convert a phpbb3.x forum site to bbpress? reply james katt says: may 7, 2017 at 6:00 pm there are services such as gconverter which will do it for you in minutes. reply angelika says: jul 9, 2014 at 9:30 am simplepress is missing. that’s a very awesome forum. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) bluehost coupon get over 63% off on bluehost packages and a free domain of your choice. weglot coupon get 15% off on weglot multilingual plugin for wordpress. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.