barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up travel 10 camping spots your dog will love share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest jo piazza writer shares share tweet pin @campingwithdogs founder ryan carter knows the best spots to camp out with your best friend. camping with your dog might just be the most fun you can have in the great outdoors with your four-legged friend. nights by the fire, days tromping around the forest, s’mores and afternoons lounging in the hammock—it might just be the best vacation you’ll ever take together. but you’ll need to do a bit of research before you hit the trail. not every campground is pet-friendly and even the ones that are can have some pretty strict rules. in addition, not all trails want your fur-baby disrupting the wildlife. in fact, even parks and campsites that permit dogs often don’t allow them on the trails or the backcountry, which puts a serious damper on your journey. never fear though, a bit of advance planning yields plenty of places to pitch a tent under the stars together. we gathered a list of personal favorite camping spots and got together with the greatest instagram account dedicated to ruffing it with your pups, @campingwithdogs to poll their trailblazers, grammers who hike every day with their dogs from all over the country to select some of the very best spots to camp with your pooches. here were a 10 must-sees. 1. big sur: pfeiffer big sur state park, california majestic redwoods, soaring pacific vistas and a very dog friendly policy are just the start of the allure of this california camping paradise. the only catch is you’ll have to book these sites at least six months in advance since they fill up so fast. dogs must remain on a leash in the campground and they aren’t allowed on the official trails, but there is plenty of dog-friendly hiking in the very close ventana wilderness and gorgeous pfeiffer beach is an off-leash paradise. 2. ruth lake, uinta mountains, utah ruth lake has been dubbed, by the kinds of folks who ought to know, as one of the best places to take a backpacking trip for beginners. the hike in is less than a mile and dogs are welcome at campsite surrounding the lake. once you get there it’s all relaxation all the time. 3. indian peaks wilderness, colorado indian peaks is home to 50 lakes and 28 trails covering more than 133 miles. all overnight campers must pay a permit fee of $5 and dogs must be on leash at all times. other than that, feel free to explore this untamed wilderness that rises to elevations just over 13,500 feet. 4. death valley national park, california this below sea level basin is an alien landscape of extremes. go for the colorful badlands and rugged canyons, but stay because you can happily camp at all campsites with your pet as long as they remain on a leash. and even though pets are not allowed on trails or in the wilderness they are allowed on plenty of the scenic back country roads. 5. gunnison: curecanti national recreation area, colorado pets are allowed on all hiking trails here along the three reservoirs along the gunnison river. make sure to keep your dog on leash (it’s the law anyway) because this is prairie dog country and if you thought your dog went wild for squirrels in your back yard, you don’t want to see what happens when it spots a prairie dog. 6. sawtooth national forest campgrounds, idaho the first time i visited idaho i said to a friend, “oh, so this is what heaven must be like.” it was that spectacular. i’ve since returned to explore the various sections of the state in just about every season and a soft spot remains for the sawtooth national forest. all dogs must be on leash while walking on the trails, but other than that the are is incredibly pet-friendly as long as your dog is well-behaved. enjoy the high granite peaks and deep glacial valley views with your pet or take a dip in one of the chilly alpine lakes. make sure to bring your camera, because it doesn’t get much more instagrammable than this. 7. savage gulf state natural area in south cumberland state park, tennessee straddling four different counties, this state park offers 25,539 for hiking and backcountry. sandstone canyons and waterfalls dropping from sheer cliffs, make this one of the most scenic camping and hiking spots in tennessee. “after a 9 mile hike in, there’s an awesome old cabin that you can camp at. first come first serve but so worth it if you get an early start,” says @campingwithdogs founder ryan carter. 8. crater lake national park, oregon fans of the cheryl strayed book wild should add this one to their bucket lists. the author had beautiful things to say about finally reaching this wilderness destination during her arduous hike along the pacific crest trail. while dogs aren’t allowed on most of the trails here they are allowed to sleep in the campgrounds overnight and on paved roads. dogs are allowed on the godfrey glen trail, the lady of the woods trail, and the pacific crest trail. but none of these offer lake views. if you’re hankering for a view of the lake you can walk your dog up the promenade at rim village for a gorgeous vista. 9. salt river and bulldog canyon, arizona located near mesa, arizona, bulldog canyon is just over 14 miles for a point to point hike and there are plenty of gorgeous spots to camp along the trail. according to @goose_the_aussie, a trailblazer for @campingwithdogs, there are few better places to desert camp than right here. “it’s great desert camping and there’s wild horses all over the place.” 10. strawberry bay campground, utah sleep out next to strawberry reservoir’s piney rolling hills at an elevation of 7,200 feet. this idyllic spot offers canoeing, horseback riding, sailing and fishing, if you’re feeling active, but really its the perfect place for laying around the tent with a good dog and a good book. comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up jo piazza writer 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go