home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. we and the color home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style home recommendations fonts 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 recommendations fonts 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email discover 10 of the best and coolest fonts every graphic designer should have in 2020! honestly, it took us some time to examine all the current trends in typeface design and we took a very close look at all the latest font releases to give you a fine selection of 10 cool fonts that will be very popular among designers in 2020. choosing the best typeface for a certain design project can be a difficult task. it depends on many details such as the main topic, the individual media (print, web or mobile for instance), the number of characters and text size, and of course current font trends. after digging deep into every detail as well as comparing many of the latest font releases with some of the most iconic typefaces of all time, we have put together this amazing selection of 10 cool fonts every graphic designer should have in 2020. it was not easy to limit the selection to only 10 fonts—that’s why we had to focus on relatively new typefaces or updates of famous fonts that have been published only in recent years. 10th: questa complete (the all-in-one superfamily) questa complete designed by jos buivenga and martin majoor, questa complete is a universal superfamily consisting of a serif, a sans, and a display version. all three subfamilies can be easily combined with each other, which makes questa a true workhorse for different typographic needs. each subfamily comes with various weights plus matching true italics. in addition, the entire typeface collection is equipped with numerous typographic features such as four sets of figures, small caps, ligatures, and extended language support. if you are looking for an all-in-one solution for different projects, this superfamily is exactly what you need. purchase at fontspring 9th: bionik font (a squarish serif for contemporary typography) bionik font created by graphic and type designer arne freytag, this font family is characterized by super ellipse-based shapes and a particularly high x-height, which results in a squarish serif that works best in contemporary typography—whether print or on screen. it seems that the release of this modern serif typeface went a bit under the radar of many designers. so if you are looking for something special, which is not frequently used in thousands of design projects, the bionik font family could be a great choice. purchase at myfonts purchase at fontspring 8th: campton (an unconventional sans serif typeface) campton font here comes a font family by german typeface designer, rene bieder. since its release in 2014, campton became very popular among designers because of its unconventional typeface based on the new generation of sans serif fonts from the early twentieth century. it’s not to overlook that campton’s robust design is deeply inspired by gill sans and johnston sans. rene bieder masterfully combined these styles with modern elements. the result of his work a contemporary and unconventional family, which is well suited for various graphic design projects including editorial work, branding, web and all kinds of interaction design. purchase at myfonts purchase at fontspring 7th: morison (the serif font with the right amount of personality) morison font even in 2020, you should not give up on an elegant serif typeface. despite its classic appearance, the morison font has been designed just recently in 2019 by emil bertell, erik bertell, and teo tuominen for foundry fenotype. the family comes with separate stylistic ranges for display and text use. each range is equipped with eight weights plus matching italics. with a good dose of personality and elegance, it truly stands out when needed while offering great legibility in everyday tasks. purchase at myfonts purchase at fontspring 6th: aeonik (a workhorse for modern typography) aeonik font mark bloom, also known as mash creative, is a british graphic designer, author and type designer. he was recently featured in our special article about the best graphic designers to follow on instagram. anyway, mark bloom has just launched his own type foundry named cotype and aeonik is a remarkable example of his first four typefaces. this neo-grotesque is based on a geometric skeleton that comes in seven weights plus matching italics. whether print or on screen, you will love to work with this really cool font family. purchase at cotype 5th: jazmín (cool fonts don’t need to be expensive) jazmín font we are always impressed by the diversity of styles that have been produced each year by the designers of the chilean foundry latinotype and jazmín is once again something special. created by eli hernández sánchez in 2019, jazmín is inspired by the design of the globe gothic font family. eli hernández sánchez has reinterpreted the typeface with different proportions, serif shapes, curves, and more contrast, which results in a classy font family consisting of 8 weights plus matching italics. if you want to add this family to your list of cool fonts, then click on one of the links below. purchase at myfonts purchase at fontspring 4th: tt interfaces font (the perfect typeface for modern interfaces) tt interfaces font the team of russian foundry typetype mostly specializes in typefaces for today’s typographic needs, especially when it comes to functional interface design. as the name suggests, tt interfaces was made exactly for those demands. in line with a range of cool fonts such as tt norms and tt hoves, this new family is well suited for the use in most known mobile and web platforms. the tt interfaces family is equipped with 9 weights with 9 matching obliques in the basic family plus 4 monospaced fonts. this typeface truly adds some mathematical precision to your interface designs. purchase at myfonts purchase at creative market purchase at fontspring 3rd: neue haas grotesk (a digital revival of max miedinger’s original type design) neue haas grotesk now we have entered the top three of the coolest fonts designers should have in 2020. neue haas was originally designed by max miedinger from 1957-1958 for the haas’sche schriftgiesserei in switzerland. it was soon revised and released by the linotype ag as helvetica but as a heavily transformed version of the original typeface. for many years, the typeface underwent several modifications and in the 1980s, neue helvetica came out as a new standard. in 2004, font designer christian schwartz was asked to work on a digital revival based on the original neue haas grotesk typeface and the family has been completed in 2010 for richard turley at bloomberg businessweek. purchase at myfonts 2nd: ff infra (cool fonts that offer a fresh take on the robust sans serif typefaces of the early 20th century) ff infra font published earlier in 2019 by german foundry fontfont, this typeface is a fresh take on the sturdy sans serif typefaces known from the early 20th century. ff infra was designed by gabriel richter with the aim to create a font family with a friendly and welcoming appearance. consisting of 20 styles including weights ranging from hairline to black plus matching italics for each weight, this family is performing quite well in every situation. whether print or web, long blocks of editorial texts or short text snippets and headlines, ff infra always looks good. purchase at myfonts 1st: helvetica now (the iconic typeface updated for the demands of contemporary design and branding) helvetica now from monotype we have a winner and you might say: “helvetica—that’s boring and not very surprising.” but helvetica now is a complete rework of the iconic typeface to make it more suitable for today’s typographic demands. published in 2019 by monotype, every single character in helvetica now has been redrawn and refitted for this expansive new edition. helvetica now comes with 48 fonts, consisting of three different optical sizes: micro, text, and display. with helvetica now, the typical swiss mantra of clarity, simplicity, and neutrality meets the demands of contemporary design and branding. purchase at myfonts that was our selection of 10 cool fonts every graphic designer should have in 2020. the selection was really not an easy task and of course, there are many other cool fonts out there but we had to decide for 10. for those of you looking for more typefaces, you can find some of the best fonts from different genres in our popular fonts category. update: our selection of the best free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 can be found here. subscribe to our newsletter! by continuing, you accept the privacy policy 4.62/5 (26) please rate this article. rate here: tags best fonts cool fonts font fonts typeface typefaces reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email dirk petzold of course, we are on instagram: @weandthecolor :) related articlesmore from author fonts magazine grotesque font family by latinotype fonts printed moments script font fonts antikor font family by taner ardali fonts brixton svg typeface: bold hand-printed font family fonts mixta font family from latinotype fonts grold rounded font family from typesketchbook fonts moranga font family by latinotype fonts mastro font family by ndiscover fonts uniform pro font family from miller type foundry 4 comments tom peters october 26, 2019 at 7:06 pm helvetica, the one and only! 🙂 reply david mugisha october 26, 2019 at 11:38 pm faustine woooww reply angel melo october 27, 2019 at 12:09 am where is gotham? reply dirk petzold october 27, 2019 at 11:08 am gotham was actually on the shortlist because it’s one of my favorite fonts too. well, maybe next time we need to make a wider selection. it’s difficult when you have to pick only 10 fonts and you want to make it a varied selection with different styles. reply leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. current ye@r * leave this field empty email by continuing, you accept the privacy policy editor picks 10 free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 top graphic designers on instagram to follow for creative inspiration popular posts central park infrared/aerochrome photos i am an actor by franck bohbot lane coder – underwater photography popular category design4038 graphic design2565 recommendations1479 branding1427 illustration1384 fonts895 photography892 art880 templates548 about us we and the color is a web magazine for your daily art and design inspiration. we feature outstanding projects of various creative fields. in addition, you can find trendy graphics, templates, and fonts for download. read more here. contact us: meandyou@weandthecolor.com follow us legal information privacy advertisement © copyright 2019 we and the color – all rights reserved this website uses cookies to improve your experience. by continuing, you are agreeing to our terms of use.accept read more privacy & cookies policy close necessary always enabled