start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising relationships advertising published on march 27, 2020 10 core values of a lasting relationship rossana snee rossana is a licensed marriage & family therapist. she aspires to motivate, to inspire, and to awaken your best self! read full profile share pin it tweet share email building a successful relationship takes dedication. there are untold life situations that can spring up, and test the strength and unity of your partnership. having compatible core values will provide you with the necessary strength and camaraderie to be able to navigate through those stumbling blocks together. imagine a passenger getting on a train. now imagine that the train is headed for san diego, and the passenger wants to go to sacramento. the passenger is going to be quite disappointed when he realizes that he’s arrived in san diego, and not at his destination of choice. both the train and the passenger need to be headed in the same direction for successful travel. the same holds true for relationships. similar core beliefs are fundamental for you and your partner in order to feel safe, protected, connected, and comfortable, to name but a few.[1] so what are relationship values? they are the guiding principles that dictate your behavior; your personal perspective, not only about yourself, but about others and the world. core values are the underpinnings of how you live your life. be sure your relationship values have substance when discussing them with your partner. here’re 10 important core values for a successful relationship: 1. trust this core value stands above all others. it is the foundation of your relationship. without trust you basically have nothing. according to an article in strategic psychology,[2] “trust is integral to happy and fulfilling relationships in both our personal and professional lives. we require trust to develop over time to build successful and meaningful partnerships.” you and your partner need to trust each other with all you have. you need to feel confident that they will have your back, that you’ll have theirs, and that if there are children involved, their welfare comes above all else. your beloved and you can have a triumphant relationship. how? trusting that each of you will always do the best for the greater good of the relationship. if you truly trust your partner, and they you, you are on your way to conquering any hurdle that stands in the way. if you are working on building trust in a relationship, see this article for advice. 2. loyalty this core value is extremely important and goes hand in hand with trust. being loyal and having a loyal partner assures that both of you are on the same team. according to relationship advice: how to define loyalty in a relationship,[3] “loyalty is dedication; knowing that you’re devoted solely to each other. that all of the choices and decisions you make have been considered with your partner and the impact on your relationship in mind. your commitment never wavers and your bond is unbreakable.” if both you and your honey are reliable and true to each other above everyone else, you’re on the right path. if not, it could be a warpath. i once treated a couple in which one of the partners was missing the loyalty “chip.” advertising he was loyal, but not to his wife. his family came first and foremost. this did not bode well with his wife, obviously. his parents had to have the last say in their big decisions, and when they directed negative comments at his wife, he did not step up to defend her. he remained silent and allowed her to take their verbal beating. this is not being loyal to your partner. loyalty is a key core value for the health and survival of your relationship. if you are loyal to each other, your love will thrive in the best possible way. and isn’t that the goal of every successful relationship? learn more tips about building loyalty in this article: how to build loyalty in your relationship 3. religion this core value is paramount, especially if you are going to raise children together. religion has a strong place in many people’s lives. despite possible difficulties, you might still decide that your partner’s different faith isn’t significant. in her article, why religious compatibility matters in relationships, kelsey dallas, states,[4] “religious differences don’t always spell doom for relationships, but they can lead to arguments and tensions. religiously mixed couples should be proactive about addressing the role faith will play in their family life, according to experts on religion and romance.” it may be true that religious differences might not end the relationship, but consider the effects on your children if you happen to have them? how will you raise them? will you let them make up their own minds when they’re old enough? or are you going to say, “the children must be raised christian/muslim. and that’s final!?” even if the couple comes to a similar conclusion, there is also the issue of extended family. if they are intricately involved in their religion—the one you were raised in—they may expect that their grandchildren should be as well, and apply undue pressure to make it happen. if it’s important to you, make sure you discuss this core value, and that you’re both on the same page. and if you are, you’re adding another building block to your already solid partnership. 4. family your dream growing up may have been to get married, have children, and extended family nearby. that’s always been a core value for you. but what happens if your partner wants no children, and plans to move to africa to study elephants? you’re not going to get too far. family is a highly critical value, and one that both of you need to share. i knew a couple who initially decided they didn’t want to have children. it all went smoothly until the wife decided she wanted to have children, after all. unfortunately, her husband hadn’t had a change of heart. a choice had to be made. did she leave her husband of 12 years to try and meet another guy, fall in love, then have children? or did she stay with the man she loved, and give up the idea of having a family? she chose the latter, but with painful consequences. advertising decide early on what your values are on family. do you want to live near your extended family? how often do you want to visit? do you want to have a family of your own? if so, how many? this core value, if not shared, could mean the end of your relationship. in his article, family values: what are family values and why are they important, bryan zitzman, ph.d, lmft, writes,[5] “ultimately, your family values will be specific to you and your family unit. they represent the ways you want to live your family life, and they may have been passed down through multiple generations throughout the decades. knowing what a family–both the nuclear family and extended family–values can help solidify bonds among family members. family values help kids and young men and women make good choices because they have a set of beliefs to help guide them.” when you both hold this core value near and dear to your hearts, it can be very rewarding, bringing you closer together, and expanding the great thing you already have. 5. communication without a doubt, this core value is crucial to the development and well-being of your relationship. in an article by saminu abass, 3 benefits of effective communication, he states, “living together as husband and wife (or any romantic partnership) can only work when there is an effective back and forth of information between the couple.” communicating with each other will bring you closer; allow you to get to know each other as deeply as you can. if you like to keep things to yourself, believing that no one needs to know your business, not even your partner, and your partner loves to talk about every feeling, then the relationship will more than likely fail. maybe you’re the type of person who likes to process situations before talking about them, and your partner wants to talk about them immediately. that’s ok. as long as you both want to keep the lines of communication open, it can still work. you and your honey can decide on a time to talk about the issue/s, and resolve them. the problem arises when there is no talking at all. remember to also communicate the good stuff. communicating with each other is a way to invest in your relationship. any time you are sharing a piece of yourself and your life, your relationship will benefit, and you’ll be rewarded with increased intimacy. 6. lifestyle you like to go hiking every weekend and your mate loves to stay home binging new amsterdam. lifestyles are important to every relationship.[6] if you both like to do different things all the time, spending no more than a few minutes a week together, then your relationship is less likely to prosper. i’m not saying that you have to be glued at the hip, but it’s a good idea to spend fun, quality time with each other. if you’re an outdoorsman, and your partner is a homebody, or you love to go out partying every weekend, and your partner sits in the corner counting the minutes until they can go home, then again, that could create a stumbling block. as a couple, it’s important you do things together; that for the most part, you enjoy participating in the same activities. but even if you like chasing tornadoes, and your spouse likes taking walks in the park, your relationship can still function totally fine. just make sure that most of your other core values are on point. 7. honesty this core value is critical to every relationship. in an article by trudy adams, tbh: 5 reasons why honesty is important, she writes,[7] advertising “without honesty there is no foundation for a lasting or enjoyable relationship in any context, whether that be with a family member, friend or romantic interest. honesty is a voice for love that builds trust. without it, even ‘i love you’ becomes a lie in itself and there’s no real security in the relationship.” the value of honesty is priceless. when you and your partner are honest with each other; when you both believe that honesty is the only way to carry on your relationship, you are saying that your union is decidedly important to you. if you and your partner are both genuine with each other, you are elevating your alliance to the highest place. there is no guessing game for either of you; you both know where you stand, and that is the best way to grow together. honesty can sometimes feel awkward, especially if what you have to say is difficult, but in the long run, it’s better than concealment, which can cause irreparable damage. if both you and your partner share this beautiful core value, your chances are good that your relationship will thrive in the best way possible. 8. self-discipline you may wonder what self-discipline is doing on this list. let me explain. let’s suppose you get up every morning at 5:00 a.m. to work out. you are disciplined about your eating habits, maintain a clean home, and delay gratification for future benefits. you regard self-discipline as a strong virtue. but what if your partner hits the snooze button every morning? what if he doesn’t get out of bed until 9:00 a.m. and then runs out the door with a bag of chips for breakfast? how would you feel? in a case like this, resentment could easily fester. it’s important to share similar core values in this arena to avoid constant arguments if you, as the self-disciplined partner, don’t care about your partner’s habits, then it could work, but there’s a strong possibility that if you’re highly self-disciplined, you will expect the same from you mate. 9. self-improvement when i was working on my master’s degree, we were told that many marriages resulted in divorce during this phase of the program. it was then explained to us that if one partner is on the path of learning and self-improvement, and the other partner remains stagnant, the gap between the couple could widen. if you are on a continual quest to become the best version of yourself, and your mate doesn’t care to go beyond the knowledge he/she acquired in high school, consider this a cause for alarm. whenever you learn something new, it’s natural to want to share it. and who better than with your partner? if they’re not interested, it could lead to disappointment and frustration on your part. learn and grow together, and you’ll be on your way to a successful relationship. advertising for more on the role of self-improvement in relationships, i suggest a blog post by mel robbins, you’re growing but the people in your life are not. here’s what you can do. she provides some valuable ideas on how to manage self-improvement and growth with your partner. 10. finances in order for your relationship to flourish, you must have similar thoughts and goals about how you manage your finances. if one of your core values is saving money for a rainy day, and your partner’s is to throw it away like it grows on trees, then this is going to create havoc in the most fundamental parts of your partnership. according to dave ramsey, financial infidelity endangers the future of your relationship.[8] if you or your partner are making big financial decisions without consulting the other, then this shows a total disregard for the economy of the relationship, and the relationship itself. your core values on finances need to be the same, or frustration is going to plague the saver and the spender. in her article, keeping money secrets from each other: financial infidelity on the rise, yoki noguchi states,[9] “marital infidelity is well-known, but financial infidelity might actually be more common. the few academic studies have estimated that as many as 41% of american adults admit to hiding accounts, debts or spending habits from their spouse or partner.” if you don’t share the same core values on finances, it will more than likely lead to lying on the part of the partner responsible for the financial infidelity. the lying will lead to broken trust and feelings of betrayal. this is significantly difficult to repair. make sure that you and your honey have the same core values regarding money. this will fabricate a more solid relationship, and a future where both of you, working together, will determine your financial future, and all that that includes. final thoughts core values are deeply held beliefs. those beliefs dictate how you behave in your life, and with others. having a significant other who holds those same beliefs is a wonderful complement to the relationship, and the stuff that strong unions are built upon. having said that, your core values may change over the course of your life. you may have one set of values when you’re twenty, and then experience situations that alter those values when you’re in your thirties, forties, and beyond. still, whatever changes occur need to be in sync with your partner’s for your relationship’s success. if you appreciated learning about core values, be sure to post this article and share some of your relationship’s core values. featured photo credit: davids kokainis via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ bustle: what should you look for in a partner? here’s how to figure out your core values in relationships, according to experts [2] ^ strategic psychology: importance of trust in a relationship [3] ^ the couples expert: relationship advice: how to define loyalty in a relationship [4] ^ kelsey dallas: why religious compatibility matters in relationships [5] ^ bryan zitzman, ph.d, lmft: family values: what are family values and why are they important [6] ^ keay nigel: love q&a #1: “lifestyle differences make me want to break up with my boyfriend” [7] ^ trudy adams: tbh: 5 reasons why honesty is important [8] ^ dave ramsey: the truth about financial infidelity [9] ^ yoki noguchi: keeping money secrets from each other: financial infidelity on the rise share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to build loyalty in your relationship 12 things you can do to learn to trust again 3 benefits of effective communication in a relationship advertising advertising more by this author rossana snee rossana is a licensed marriage & family therapist. she aspires to motivate, to inspire, and to awaken your best self! 10 core values of a lasting relationship 15 relationship milestones that are worth celebrating what is marriage therapy (and how to know if you need it) 12 things you can do to learn to trust again the only relationship help you need to save your relationship advertising trending in relationships 1 how being vulnerable leads to a healthy and fulfilling relationship 2 10 core values of a lasting relationship 3 can you really fix a toxic relationship (and how)? 4 how to make long distance relationships work for you 5 5 powerful ways journal writing changes your life more by this author rossana snee rossana is a licensed marriage & family therapist. she aspires to motivate, to inspire, and to awaken your best self! 10 core values of a lasting relationship 15 relationship milestones that are worth celebrating what is marriage therapy (and how to know if you need it) 12 things you can do to learn to trust again the only relationship help you need to save your relationship trending in relationships 1 how being vulnerable leads to a healthy and fulfilling relationship 2 10 core values of a lasting relationship 3 can you really fix a toxic relationship (and how)? 4 how to make long distance relationships work for you 5 5 powerful ways journal writing changes your life read next how to handle a cheating spouse 15 relationship milestones that are worth celebrating how the 5 love languages help strengthen your relationship had a bad day? 6 ways to rebound from it advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in relationships 1 how being vulnerable leads to a healthy and fulfilling relationship 2 10 core values of a lasting relationship 3 can you really fix a toxic relationship (and how)? 4 how to make long distance relationships work for you 5 5 powerful ways journal writing changes your life read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.