start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising lifestyle health advertising 10 daily habits that hugely strengthen both your body and mind jane hurst writer, editor read full profile share pin it tweet share email our daily routines may keep us active, but how active are you really, and is your mind active enough? there are many habits that we get into that keep us from having a strong body and mind. but, there are also habits we can get into that will help to make the body and mind stronger than ever. here are some of those habits that you need to get into. 1. exercise between workouts you don’t have to wait for a workout to get some much-needed exercise. for instance, if you are at work, you can stand up and do some stretching exercises, or go for a walk, run, bike ride on your lunch break, and take one-minute exercise breaks. advertising 2. eat brain food we all know about eating healthy food to keep our bodies healthy. are you eating the right foods for your brain as well? try to include eggs, milk, juice, and fish (particularly salmon and halibut) to your diet. 3. increase your goals you have likely been told to set daily goals. but, how difficult are these goals? you need to challenge yourself, so make sure that your goals are harder and harder all the time. this is going to build you up to where you want to be. advertising 4. improve your memory playing little memory games is a great way to have sharper recall at any time. try associating things that you normally wouldn’t think of being associated with one another, and they will stick in your mind even more. there is a scientific term for this, which is synesthesia. 5. watch inspirational videos there are loads of great inspirational videos online. try looking for the more obscure videos on topics that you don’t see in all of the other videos. you will find a great selection of inspirational videos at uscreen and youtube, as well as videos on health, diet, exercise, and more. advertising 6. turn jealousy into a good thing everyone has jealous moments, but this doesn’t have to be a bad thing. if you are jealous that someone is more successful than you are, use that person as a role model. use your jealousy to start being more like they are, and pay attention to how they handle many situations, their habits, etc. 7. track your walking miles do you realize that the biggest part of your day is spent sitting down? this is not only going to cause stiff muscles, it can actually lead to health problems because you aren’t getting enough exercise. it is a good idea to try and take at least 3,000 steps per day (you can calculate your walk count with pedometer). each day, strive to make the count a little bit higher. advertising 8. move around every 15 minutes you should never sit still for long periods of time. whenever possible, try to get up and move around every 15 to 20 minutes, even if it is just to stretch your arms and legs. walk to the coffee shop at break time instead of driving. take the stairs instead of the elevator. 9. go out of your way if you normally walk to work, take a different route that is a bit longer. park far away from stores (unless you plan on buying a lot of stuff and don’t want to lug it all back to the car). walk to the next train or bus stop. every extra step you take is going to add up. 10. grow your vocabulary start reading more, and increase your vocabulary by leaps and bounds. look for books and movies that are going to challenge your mind, and if there are words you are unsure of, look them up and keep on learning. featured photo credit: lauren rushing via flickr.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated advertising advertising more by this author jane hurst writer, editor stay productive on the go – the top 20 tools for digital nomads 10 great books to help you find the meaning of life 30 makeup hacks that will change every girl’s life 15 best brainstorming and mind-mapping tech tools for every creative mind 10 apps you probably didn’t know can earn you extra money advertising trending in health 1 how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life 2 15 brain foods that will super boost your brain power 3 13 essential self-care tips for busy people 4 how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) 5 7 comics about periods that only women would understand more by this author jane hurst writer, editor stay productive on the go – the top 20 tools for digital nomads 10 great books to help you find the meaning of life 30 makeup hacks that will change every girl’s life 15 best brainstorming and mind-mapping tech tools for every creative mind 10 apps you probably didn’t know can earn you extra money trending in health 1 how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life 2 15 brain foods that will super boost your brain power 3 13 essential self-care tips for busy people 4 how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) 5 7 comics about periods that only women would understand read next how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut advertising advertising lifestyle health advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life leanne louie leanne is a passionate writer who shares lifestyle tips on lifehack. read full profile share pin it tweet share email when it comes to living long, genes aren’t everything. research has revealed a number of simple lifestyle changes you can make that could help to extend your life, and some of them may surprise you. so, how to live longer? here are 21 ways to help you live a long life 1. exercise it’s no secret that physical activity is good for you. exercise helps you maintain a healthy body weight and lowers your blood pressure, both of which contribute to heart health and a reduced risk of heart disease–the top worldwide cause of death. 2. drink in moderation i know you’re probably picturing a glass of red wine right now, but recent research suggests that indulging in one to three glasses of any type of alcohol every day may help to increase longevity.[1] studies have found that heavy drinkers as well as abstainers seem to have a higher risk of early mortality than moderate drinkers. 3. reduce stress in your life stress causes your body to release a hormone called cortisol. at high levels, this hormone can increase blood pressure and cause storage of abdominal fat, both of which can lead to an increased risk of heart disease. 4. watch less television a 2008 study found that people who watch six hours of television per day will likely die an average of 4.8 years earlier than those who don’t.[2] it also found that, after the age of 25, every hour of television watched decreases life expectancy by 22 minutes. advertising television promotes inactivity and disengagement from the world, both of which can shorten your lifespan. 5. eat less red meat red meat consumption is linked to an increased risk of heart disease and cancer.[3] swapping out your steaks for healthy proteins, like fish, may help to increase longevity. if you can’t stand the idea of a steak-free life, reducing your consumption to less than two to three servings a week can still incur health benefits. 6. don’t smoke this isn’t exactly a revelation. as you probably well know, smoking significantly increases your risk of cancer. 7. socialize studies suggest that having social relationships promotes longevity.[4] although scientists are unsure of the reasons behind this, they speculate that socializing leads to increased self esteem as well as peer pressure to maintain health. 8. eat foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids omega-3 fatty acids decrease the risk of heart disease[5] and perhaps even alzheimer’s disease.[6] salmon and walnuts are two of the best sources of omega-3s. advertising 9. be optimistic studies suggest that optimists are at a lower risk for heart disease and, generally, live longer than pessimists.[7] researchers speculate that optimists have a healthier approach to life in general–exercising more, socializing, and actively seeking out medical advice. thus, their risk of early mortality is lower. 10. own a pet having a furry-friend leads to decreased stress, increased immunity, and a lessened risk of heart disease.[8] depending on the type of pet, they can also motivate you to be more active. 11. drink coffee studies have found a link between coffee consumption and longer life.[9] although the reasons for this aren’t entirely clear, coffee’s high levels of antioxidants may play a role. remember, though, drowning your cup of joe in sugar and whipped cream could counter whatever health benefits it may hold. 12. eat less japan has the longest average lifespan in the world, and the longest lived of the japanese–the natives of the ryukyu islands–stop eating when they’re 80% full. limiting your calorie intake means lower overall stress on the body. 13. meditate meditation leads to stress reduction and lowered blood pressure.[10] research suggests that it could also increase the activity of an enzyme associated with longevity.[11] taking as little as 15 minutes a day to find your zen can have significant health benefits, and may even extend your life. advertising how to meditate? here’re 8 meditation techniques for complete beginners 14. maintain a healthy weight being overweight puts stress on your cardiovascular system, increasing your risk of heart disease.[12] it may also increase the risk of cancer.[13] maintaining a healthy weight is important for heart health and living a long and healthy life. 15. laugh often laughter reduces the levels of stress hormones, like cortisol, in your body. high levels of these hormones can weaken your immune system. 16. don’t spend too much time in the sun too much time in the sun can lead to an increased risk of skin cancer. however, sun exposure is an excellent way to increase levels of vitamin d, so soaking up a few rays–perhaps for around 15 minutes a day–can be healthy. the key is moderation. 17. cook your own food when you eat at restaurants, you surrender control over your diet. even salads tend to have a large number of additives, from sugar to saturated fats. eating at home will enable you to monitor your food intake and ensure a healthy diet. take a look at these 14 healthy easy recipes for people on the go and start to cook your own food. advertising 18. eat mushrooms mushrooms are a central ingredient in dr. joel fuhrman’s gombs disease fighting diet. they boost the immune system and may even reduce the risk of cancer.[14] 19. floss flossing helps to stave off gum disease, which is linked to an increased risk of cancer.[15] 20. eat foods rich in antioxidants antioxidants fight against the harmful effects of free-radicals, toxins which can cause cell damage and an increased risk of disease when they accumulate in the body. berries, green tea and broccoli are three excellent sources of antioxidants. find out more antiosidants-rich foods here: 13 delicious antioxidant foods that are great for your health 21. have sex getting down and dirty two to three times a week can have significant health benefits. sex burns calories, decreases stress, improves sleep, and may even protect against heart disease.[16] it’s an easy and effective way to get exercise–so love long and prosper! more health tips powerful daily routine examples for a healthy and high-achieving you make these 17 health goals into daily habits for better overall wellness how to work towards a healthy life balance featured photo credit: sweethearts/patrick via flickr.com reference [1] ^ wiley online library: late‐life alcohol consumption and 20‐year mortality [2] ^ bmj journals: television viewing time and reduced life expectancy: a life table analysis [3] ^ arch intern med.: red meat consumption and mortality [4] ^ plos medicine: social relationships and mortality risk: a meta-analytic review [5] ^ jama: fish and omega-3 fatty acid intake and risk of coronary heart disease in women [6] ^ ncbi: effects of omega‐3 fatty acids on cognitive function with aging, dementia, and neurological diseases: summary [7] ^ mayo clinic proc: prediction of all-cause mortality by the minnesota multiphasic personality inventory optimism-pessimism scale scores: study of a college sample during a 40-year follow-up period. [8] ^ med hypotheses.: pet ownership protects against the risks and consequences of coronary heart disease. [9] ^ the new england journal of medicine: association of coffee drinking with total and cause-specific mortality [10] ^ american journal of hypertension: blood pressure response to transcendental meditation: a meta-analysis [11] ^ science direct: intensive meditation training, immune cell telomerase activity, and psychological mediators [12] ^ jama: the disease burden associated with overweight and obesity [13] ^ jama: the disease burden associated with overweight and obesity [14] ^ african journal of biotechnology: anti-cancer effect of polysaccharides isolated from higher basidiomycetes mushrooms [15] ^ science direct: periodontal disease, tooth loss, and cancer risk in male health professionals: a prospective cohort study [16] ^ aha journals: sexual activity and cardiovascular disease share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to work towards a healthy life balance powerful daily routine examples for a healthy and high-achieving you 14 healthy easy recipes for people on the go advertising advertising more by this author leanne louie leanne is a passionate writer who shares lifestyle tips on lifehack. how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life 5 life lessons from game of thrones 12 ways to live more in the moment 10 brain boosting foods you should be eating 7 habits of highly effective hobbits advertising trending in health 1 how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life 2 15 brain foods that will super boost your brain power 3 13 essential self-care tips for busy people 4 how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) 5 7 comics about periods that only women would understand read next how do you meditate? 8 meditation techniques for complete beginners make these 17 health goals into daily habits for better overall wellness 8 surprising benefits of salmon (with recipe) how to control anxiety and calm your anxious thoughts about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.