start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising productivity smartcut advertising last updated on november 19, 2019 10 effective time management techniques for busy people christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast read full profile share pin it tweet share email when was the last time you’ve heard someone mention that they were too busy to do something? it wasn’t long ago when i’d wake only with enough time to get ready for work and had little time to do anything when i’d get out. today, i write 1000 words, read at least one hour, listen to podcasts, go to the gym, while managing a full-time job. this isn’t to brag because there are people who do much more than i do. that’s what’s possible when you use the most effective time management techniques. time management isn’t complicated. it comes down to having the discipline to execute what’s required each day–when no one is looking. it means being productive on days when you’re not in the mood. time management is challenging, but having control of your day is worth the sacrifice. here are some effective time management techniques you can use to take back control of your days. 1. let your burning desire fuel you have you ever wondered how some people are able to go to the gym 5 to 7 days per week for years? or how some entrepreneurs are able to sacrifice their weekends to be successful? they’re able to achieve so much because they’re committed, avoiding distractions daily. take kobe bryant, for example, who woke up hours before training to practice his shooting. some call it finding your passion, others finding your life meaning. don’t overthink it – just picture how your ideal life would be. what type of work would you be doing? what type of lifestyle would you have? odds are that there’s some gap between your current life and where you want to be. use these answers to set meaningful goals towards living your ideal life. you’ll be able to push through tough times and be laser-focused on managing your time. this article will help you find the fuel: how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up 2. track how you’re using your time if you don’t know how you’re spending your days, you’re wasting your time. don’t believe me? data shows that the average person spends 3 hours on their phone daily.[1] and this is only time on your smartphone, not including your “breaks” and other parts of your day. that’s why tracking your time is key to understanding how you’re spending your time and how to optimize it. a great app to help you track time is atracker. when you first use this app to track your time, you’ll feel “weird.” imagine logging in your time during and after your break, when you’re reading and watching tv. the truth is tracking your time isn’t sexy and can make you feel like a robot. at least this was the case for me after tracking my time for close to a year. advertising instead, focus only on tracking your most important tasks. for example, if your goal for the day is to write 1000 words, track this. tracking all your tasks for an entire day can cause you to burn out. a good rule of thumb to follow is making 2–5 hours available for your productive tasks each day. it’s better to complete 4 tasks feeling motivated than 8, feeling stressed. 3. master adjusting to unexpected events imagine setting your goals for the next day: you write what you’ll do and estimate how long it would take you to complete each task. because it’s a monday, you know how your day will play out. then, out of nowhere, your boss asks you to complete a demanding task that pushes to work until 7 pm. you come tired but your kids and wife are demanding attention – so you spend time with them. before you know it, it’s 10 pm and time for you to go to bed. the scenario above is different for everyone, but the outcome is the same – nothing gets done. many times, i’ve experienced days like this and remained disappointed going to bed. but, the reality is you need to get great at adapting to the unexpected. how? by securing as much time during your day as possible. this means waking up 2 to 3 hours earlier to complete your most important tasks. it also means evaluating your current environment to take full advantage of it. in your commute to and from work, listen to an educational podcast instead of music, carry a book with you at all times so you can read during your idle time. now, think about which areas in your day you’re not taking full advantage of. 4. use this word for effective time management “one can’t have something for nothing. happiness has got to be paid for…” –aldous huxley, i get it, you hate saying “no.” i don’t like to say this word either. but, the reality is you’ve been saying “no” without knowing. for each time you’ve said “yes” to something, you’ve said “no” somewhere else. there’s no such thing as getting something for nothing. when a friend asks you out to go for drinks and say “yes”, you’ve said “no” to writing 500 words, or you’ve said “no” to spending time with your family. throughout your day, you’ll get bombarded with different requests — from taking out the trash to spending time with friends. it’s up to you to focus on what’s important and how you’ll spend your time. saying “no” isn’t always the answer but learning when to do so will help you free up more time throughout your day. learn the gentle art of saying no with leo babauta. 5. add important tasks to your schedule “give me six hours to chop down a tree and i will spend the first four sharpening the ax.” –abraham lincoln you can spend 5 hours being productive each day and still be wasting your time. advertising how? by working on the wrong tasks. this is something i’ve struggled with in the past and something you need to avoid if you want to maximize your time. spend a good amount of time planning for how you’ll reach your goals. for example, if you hope to build a successful business study those who’re already where you want to be. then, set one or two goals that you believe will help you get there. make your goals smart. smart goals are specific and relevant. this way you can track them and ensure that they’re attainable. setting smart goals guarantees that you’ll be productive, working on your important tasks. a few years back, i’d wanted to create an seo (search engine optimization) business. the problem was that i didn’t know any better and spent months building my website. the result? after finishing my website, i’d realized that i wasn’t as interested in seo as i’d thought before. so, i started from scratch–wasting dozens of hours building a website i’d never used. having smart goals would’ve avoided me this fate. 6. only complete what’s important filling your calendar with productive tasks isn’t the only goal with time management. it’s about accomplishing only your most important tasks. otherwise, you’ll find yourself in a race to the bottom–having unfinished to-do items each day. first, figure out what you’re trying to do — are you looking to get a new promotion? are you wanting to start earning money through freelance writing? once you’ve set your smart goals, break them down into daily actionable goals. focus on your most important tasks and complete them first. spend no more than 3 to 4 hours daily completing these goals. this is assuming you have a full-time job, or else you’ll burn out. many successful entrepreneurs like gary vaynerchuk work an enormous amount of hours daily. but, this isn’t sustainable for most people. not too long ago, i’d filled my schedule with over 5 hours of work on top of my full-time job. when i focused only on being productive, my relationships suffered. i also wasn’t getting the results i’d wanted. however, having less time forced me to find shortcuts and focus only on my most productive tasks. 7. limit your time on each task parkinson’s law states that work will expand until it fills the time available.[2] so give yourself 4 hours to complete something and you’ll spend that amount of time to do so. think back when you were in school and had a paper to write, if you were like most, you’d procrastinate until the last moment – and somehow complete the paper in a few hours. advertising that’s parkinson’s law in motion. to be efficient with your time, you’ll need to set a cap for every task you work on. it’ll be challenging in the beginning but you’ll soon learn to maximize your time. for example, if you have to write a 1500 post give yourself 4 hours to complete it. this factors in 2 hours to write 1500 words, and 2 hours to edit. if you find yourself short in time, add an extra hour next time. this is a never-ending process. but, you’ll become more efficient the more you practice it. 8. recharge your mind daily you can have all the drive int he world; but without a clear mind, you’ll burn out. meditating isn’t hype, it works. despite the research backing up its positive claims, meditating helps you be present.[3] if you’ve come home, tired from work, wondering where your day went, you know what not being present is like. imagine showing up to class half asleep. then, imagine feeling energized in class and asking questions. the second example is how being present can affect the quality of your work. instead of completing your tasks half engaged, your work quality will improve. so, how do you meditate? by starting. when i first started meditating, i had no idea what i was doing. eventually, i’d started using a guided meditating app and have enjoyed meditation since. learn from the many great resources who expound on this topic and experience the life-changing benefits: the 5-minute guide to meditation: anywhere, anytime meditation for beginners: how to meditate deeply and quickly 9. use this strategy to stay laser-focused are you a great multi-tasker? if you’d answered yes, then you’re sacrificing efficiency. in today’s time, most people pride themselves with being a great “multitaskers.” even managers at big corporations pride themselves on juggling many tasks. despite corporate america’s pressure to do more, multitasking isn’t the solution. why? advertising because you’ll take longer to complete tasks and make more errors. it’s a lose-lose situation. instead, focus on completing one task with efficiency. doing so will help you avoid burning out and make fewer mistakes. but, focusing on one task is easier said than done. as a previous multitasker, i needed to look at my phone while i was writing, and watch tv while i was reading. despite me wanting to focus, it was one of the most challenging things to do and for a good reason. in today’s western society there are thousands of distractions daily. research shows that an average person sees 5000+ ads per day.[4] factor in work commitments, family obligations and it’s clear on why we have a hard time focusing. a solution that’s worked for me has been meditating and working in pomodoro sprints. the pomodoro technique involves working in 20 to 45 minute intervals– with a 5 to 10 minute break in-between. for example, you’d work non-stop for 25 minutes, have a 5-minute break, then repeat. using the pomodoro technique will help you stay focused without burning out. 10. constantly seek to improve time management isn’t a skill you practice once and slap into your resume. it’s a skill that requires a huge time investment and patience. you’re not going to be an expert at managing your time only by reading this article. you also don’t need to learn a dozen strategies. chances are you know some techniques on how to better manage your time but aren’t applying them. your solution is to create a productive environment. follow productive people, and listen to experts who share tips on productivity. soon their good habits will begin to stick for you. as you track your time, journal your progress; so that you can keep track of how well you’re managing your time and where you’re falling short. as you become better, you’ll know how long a certain task will take you to complete and be able to plan ahead. the bottom line imagine setting a goal and feeling confident that you’d achieve it. even if you didn’t achieve it, you’d know that you’d at least make significant progress. all because you became a master at managing your time. managing my time better has allowed me to be in control of my days. it has given me the strength to say “no” and improve the quality of my work. you too can achieve great things if you’re willing to put in the work! now that you know some of some the most effective time management techniques, choose one to work on. once you’ve mastered one move on to the next one. soon you’ll be a productivity machine–accomplishing more by 10 am than most of the world does in their entire day. more time management tips easily distracted and hard to focus? try doing this 10 practical ways to drastically improve your time management skills can’t focus? why you’ve been doing it wrong and how to focus better 18 best time management apps and tools featured photo credit: jens kreuter via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ comscore: mobile matures as the cross-platform era emerges [2] ^ harvard business review: why we procrastinate when we have long deadlines [3] ^ national center for complementary and integrative health: meditation: in depth [4] ^ sj insights: part art or part science? share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up easily distracted? here’s how to regain your focus how to makes lasting changes with smart goal setting advertising advertising more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next can’t focus? why you’ve been doing it wrong and how to focus better meditation for beginners: how to meditate deeply and quickly how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.