home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. we and the color home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style home recommendations fonts 10 free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 best free fonts for designers in 2020. image: big john pro by ion lucin recommendations fonts 10 free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email check out our selection of the top 10 free fonts you should download to create amazing designs in 2020. after last week’s feature of the 10 coolest fonts for designers in 2020, today we want to show you the 10 of the best free fonts to create amazing designs. the selection includes a great variety of different styles. all featured fonts can be downloaded for free, but you should pay attention to the respective licenses for private and commercial use, and sometimes are only a few styles available for free download. 10th: knile font family (free regular & italic styles) knile font family (free regular & italic style) designed by studio atipo in collaboration with maria ramos, knile is a geometric slab serif font family that comes in 16 styles but only its regular version plus matching italic style are available for free download. the typeface is characterized by a clean kerning and great readability. if you decide to download only the free version, then i would recommend the font only for the use in titles and very short text sections instead of full editorial use. anyway, if you want to purchase the full family, it’s totally up to you what you want to pay. sounds good? then click on the following link. free download 9th: skola sans, a free font family for non-commercial projects skola sans font family designed by lasko dzurovski, skola sans is a fully functional font family consisting of 20 styles in total. more precisely, the family includes a normal version with 5 weights plus matching italics and a condensed version, which is equally equipped with 5 weights plus matching italics. the character set supports both latin and cyrillic letters. it’s hard to believe but all this available for free, at least for non-commercial projects. free download 8th: neoneon, a free typeface that aims to bring back the spirit of the 80s. neoneon typeface that’s fancy, isn’t it? neoneon is bakoom studio’s first typeface and their goal was to reproduce the style of neon signage from the 80s. the font is a great choice for eye-catching headlines, magazine covers, advertisements, and posters. you can use it either for personal and commercial projects. the 2nd option please only with attribution. free download 7th: salted mocha, a handmade brush script typeface salted mocha brush script typeface salted mocha was designed by stephanie arsenault using the procreate app on the ipad, which was a little fun fact for me and a reason to present it among our selection of the 10 best free fonts to create amazing designs no matter what tool you use. the typeface is based on authentic brush stroke textures, which give salted mocha a playful touch. it is free for personal and desktop commercial use. free download 6th: buffalo, another script among our selection of the best free fonts. buffalo font just like salted mocha before, here comes another script font with a nice hand-drawn look and feel. buffalo was designed by jeremy vessey of hustle supply co. he’s best known for a lot of great vintage-inspired designs. this quirky monoline script font can be used for a variety of projects such as branding and promotional work. the font is available for free download only at pixel surplus (free for personal and desktop commercial use). free download 5th: mosk font family, a clean and linear sans-serif mosk font family oh boy, just look at this well-designed typeface! designed by iulian maftei, the mosk font family consists of 9 weights ranging from a delicate thin to an extra stong weight. the functional typeface comes with uppercase and lowercase character and numerals. it’s a great choice for modern designs, logos, headlines, text, print, and web. free download 4th: anson, another fine sans-serif in our selection of the best free fonts. anson font the anson typeface is characterized by its simplicity and a slightly condensed appearance. it was designed by mikko nuuttila, a finland-based graphic designer with various skills. his work ranges from type design to digital projects. anson consists of 188 glyphs including small letters and capitals as well as numbers and other symbols. free download 3rd: musket (we finally entered to top three of the best free fonts) musket free font the musket font was designed and published by nomo studio already in 2012. since then, it has become one of the most popular free fonts. the robust slab serif typeface is well suited for headings but also optimized for small sizes. it includes uppercase and lowercase letters in two weights, regular and bold. you can download the typeface for free or donate what you want. free download 2nd: big john pro, a striking typeface for everyone. big john pro designed by ion lucin, big john pro is the evolution of the big john and slim joe font, which can be found here. ion lucin has added a new medium-weight to the brothers called “regular jim”. furthermore, all three weights are now equipped with lowercase letters in addition to the uppercases. but that’s not all! big john pro comes with more than 500 diacritics characters, to make it an even more versatile typeface. big john pro is available for free for personal and commercial use. just follow the link in the bio of ion’s instagram account. free download 1st: heading pro, a superfamily of 146 fonts in nine weights and eight widths plus italics. heading pro font family we have a winner of our selection of the best free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020! designed by francesco canovaro for foundry zetafonts, the original design has been expanded by andrea tartarelli, cosimo lorenzo pancini, and chiara ghezzi in order to make it a gigantic superfamily consisting of 146 fonts. the superfamily is organized in eight widths and nine weights each plus matching italics. due to the many weights and widths, the family can be used for both headlines and text in any size. please note, the complete family is available for free for personal projects only, not commercial work. download link you can find many more typefaces in our recommended fonts category. no matter what you are looking for, our extensive font reviews will help you to find the perfect typeface for every project. subscribe to our newsletter! by continuing, you accept the privacy policy 5/5 (26) please rate this article. rate here: tags best fonts best free fonts free font free fonts reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email dirk petzold of course, we are on instagram: @weandthecolor :) related articlesmore from author fonts the five best fonts of 2019 fonts 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 fonts manrope font family: free download fonts the 6 best font releases of 2019: 1st quarter fonts blacker font family with 2 free fonts design 10 google fonts you should know design botera – free font design free font family: latina essential from latinotype design ailerons typeface – free font! leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. current ye@r * leave this field empty email by continuing, you accept the privacy policy editor picks 10 free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 top graphic designers on instagram to follow for creative inspiration popular posts central park infrared/aerochrome photos i am an actor by franck bohbot lane coder – underwater photography popular category design4038 graphic design2565 recommendations1479 branding1427 illustration1384 fonts895 photography892 art880 templates548 about us we and the color is a web magazine for your daily art and design inspiration. we feature outstanding projects of various creative fields. in addition, you can find trendy graphics, templates, and fonts for download. read more here. contact us: meandyou@weandthecolor.com follow us legal information privacy advertisement © copyright 2019 we and the color – all rights reserved this website uses cookies to improve your experience. by continuing, you are agreeing to our terms of use.accept read more privacy & cookies policy close necessary always enabled