skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 10 free wordpress facebook feed plugins 10 free wordpress facebook feed plugins march 15, 2020 colorlibauthor plugins 0 comments the best way for your web page to get noticed on the internet is by having it linked to different social media platforms. no other platform can top the online users of facebook. by actively posting and communicating with others, you won’t miss out on major opportunities for increasing traffic to your website. always utilize the facebook social media platform as it is the most popular channel that you can use to broadcast your web page, products, and even service by having to interact with your users. this will also help to improve your online presence and build a stronger relationship with your audience. here are the best free facebook social feed plugins that you can use right now. smash balloon social post feed are you tired of the dull and boring facebook feed that you usually see on the platform? if you’re looking for a fully customizable facebook feed plugin for your wordpress website, then this is the one for you. the smash balloon is a social feed plugin that has the function of displaying your users’ facebook posts. the plugin optimizes customizability and gives you the freedom to personalize the social feeds. you can also edit it depending on the theme of the facebook page of your choice. with a lot of different variations to create for your social feed design, the possibilities are endless. the free version of the plugin includes features like having to display social feeds, videos, public comments, and much more. there is also a privacy feature for those who want to keep content for themselves. it also has an easy to use interface with no unnecessary coding required to run these features. more info / download feed them social with countless social platforms, popular ones such as facebook, instagram, twitter, pinterest, and youtube stand out the most. but regardless of the vast amount of free social networking platforms, your users will always be hungry for more. they thirst for social interaction, public attention, and convenient ways on how to stay updated with the latest trends. give your users what they seek for in a site, and that is having the compatibility to have a connection with different social networking sites, especially facebook. satisfy their hunger by having to feed them social. as the name suggests, this plugin allows you to create and post social feeds from different social networking sites. with the free version of the plugin, there will be a limit on how many posts, videos, and pages for every feed, but you can add as many social feeds as you like to keep your users entertained. it has a simple and responsive user interface that is fully customizable from fonts, sidebars, icons, and even simple animations are included. more info / download easy social post feed having to use a plugin that you’re completely unfamiliar with can be daunting and confusing when it comes to editing your wordpress website. but if you’re using the easy social post feed social plugin, you won’t have to worry about any coding and page loading errors. this plugin has a minimal user interface with a very straightforward navigation menu. it is the easiest plugin to use for wordpress beginners with no experience when it comes to coding. the plugin is designed to create custom feeds that you can connect with social networking websites. those custom feeds can display different photos, videos, and even short audio clips. you can also add photo and video galleries for your feeds straight from your users’ instagram, facebook, and other social media platforms. the unique feature that the plugin has is the social feed’s design. it is similar to the social feed from facebook, so your users will be familiar with how to navigate through the feeds. more info / download social likebox & feed relive the whole facebook experience by having a like box and social feed on your website. your users will always adore an interactive social feed that allows them to comment, leave feedback, and repost different content on your wordpress website. well, with the social likebox and feed plugin, that will be a possibility. this excellent plugin allows your users to share and post anything from their facebook accounts. they can simply choose the option to link their accounts directly from your website, without having to switch to different tabs. the plugin includes a dedicated, responsive page, so your users can leave positive feedback if they found some of the posts on your social feeds are amusing and entertaining. that feedback will help you to know what content your users would like to see, and you can use that information to gain more attention to your seo written content. increase site traffic, boost content visibility, and create a facebook social plugin with ease. more info / download flow-flow social stream facebook is not solely limited to social interaction, but it can also be a place for your business to grow. the flow-flow social stream is a facebook feed plugin that displays feeds on your wordpress website. you can link your store pages on facebook and have posts, pictures, and videos integrated into your social feed. the plugin comes with over 100 pre-defined templates for different marketplace themes and shopping engines. it is a free plugin that comes with a complete package such as posting an unlimited number of products and feeds, category and field mapping, and even having filters. you can also add custom fields wherein you can use for your product descriptions. the plugin also adds a facebook pixel code directly on your website. this ensures that the products on your feed match those on your facebook catalogs. more info / download 10web social post feed having a hassle-free experience when it comes to integrating content on your wordpress website from facebook is a must to maximize social interaction and visibility for your site. you want to ensure that people will know about your web page so it could gain a lot of traffic. thanks to the 10web social post feed plugin, that process has never been easier. the plugin allows you to display a wide variety of customizable content from facebook directly onto your wordpress website. it includes a ton of neat features like having to display different posts, videos, and images. you also have full control over the content of your social feeds, such as the size, font, type, and the entirety of the design. the plugin is fully customizable, allowing you to add and change elements to suit either your web page’s theme or the page that you want to feature on your website. more info / download the awesome feed – custom feed everything is awesome! a comprehensive statement, but you too can make your website awesome and amazing with the awesome feed plugin. it is a social feed plugin that is designed to link your website to different social media platforms, especially facebook. the plugin helps you to have different facebook feed displayed onto your wordpress web page. you can also link any public facebook account to your website, and that will allow you to show different posts, pages, videos, and widgets that can be seen or used in the facebook platform. the free version of this plugin includes the basic feature, such as having to add unlimited facebook feeds, and you can display them all together on a single page. sort, organize, and edit content for every feed and make some tweaks with the appearance of the posts. the plugin is easy to use and simple to understand without having to know anything about coding and web languages. more info / download social feed | custom feed for social media networks you need to have the freedom to change any element within your social feeds so that it will match your website’s overall theme. the social feed plugin allows you to create customizable social feeds from different social networking sites. it is one of the best social feed plugins for facebook as well. you can link your social media accounts directly from your website and display various facebook feeds from different facebook pages all in a single web page. the plugin has all of the necessary features to keep your users updated with the latest happenings because the plugin is compatible with linking to multiple accounts. so if you have an interesting tweet from twitter, an amazing pin from pinterest, and a mind-blowing post from facebook, then you can add them all in a single feed. you can also add your facebook albums and galleries to your social feed as well as products form the facebook marketplace. social feed | all social media in one place the plugin offers a wide variety of themes that you can choose from. all pre-designed themes are fully customizable when it comes to background designs, colors, fonts, and image size facebook, instagram, and twitter social feeds. this will make your website more engaging and appealing to your users. you can display a completely responsive & customizable facebook feed on your wordpress website and match the look and feel of your facebook page. you can also add live video streams from facebook, directly onto your web page’s social feed. it uses different shortcodes, which will allow you to display the feed on different pages of your website. the simple user interface makes the whole web experience easier for your users, and they can navigate through your website with ease. the best part is that the plugin is optimized to display or show the latest and trending posts from your social media accounts, so your users will be updated with the current events. more info / download powr – free forms, social feeds, countdown timers are you familiar with the cliché old phrase that “with great power comes with great responsibility”? well, having the ability to power or ability to do anything can be a great concept when editing your wordpress website. if you’re looking for the complete set of tools to create the best facebook social feed for your web page, then the powr social plugin is the one for you. this free plugin is like a packaged gift pack of different wonderful plugins that aims to provide your website all of the necessary features to keep your users updated and entertained. whether you’re planning for a blogging or marketing website, then the powr plugins are optimized in getting your users engaged with more conversions talking about your interesting posts. the plugins aim to boost your site’s traffic by having to highlight trending posts from facebook. the plugin is also has a feature of ensuring your users’ accounts and credentials to be safe and secure. more info / download choose what’s best for your website! having an understanding of the importance of social media platforms will give your website the visibility it needs to be noticed in the online world. taking time to search for different social plugins and resources will help you to create an engaging web page that entices your audience to look at what you’ve got. choose the right plugin that your website needs and boost its engagement by tenfold! thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. facebookfacebook feedfree plugins share this share tweet pin it share related posts top 14 image lossless compression plugins for speeding up wordpress lossless image compression is a big deal, more often than not it is the actual… 10 plugins to stop ad blockers on your wordpress website 2020 advertisers and the advertising industry, in general, are in quite a pickle right now. the… the best free wordpress font plugins to change fonts with ease 2020 a major and important part of any web design is typography. the type of fonts… toolset review: a suite of tools to extend the possibilities of wordpress toolset is a suite of tools that can help you extend the functionality of wordpress… 10 best wordpress document management plugins plugins are essential to make your website user-friendly letting them navigate on your page smoothly.… add a point of sale to wordpress and woocommerce with openpos if you want to add a point of sale dashboard to your store, then the… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: top 17 wordpress plugins for monetizing a blog 2020 next post: 10 easy-to-use wordpress editor plugins we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×