home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 resources for writers tips for writers by laura tong give me six hours to chop down a tree and i will spend the first four sharpening the axe. read more: http://www.searchquotes.com/search/sharpening_your_axe/#ixzz4zgbaqr5r here at writetodone we are continuously striving to bring you the best advice and resources around to help you become the awesome writer you were born to be. and to do that we listen hard to find out how we can do this better each time. well, a while back we published an epic post on tools for writers. the post was well-received, but we noticed something: useful those these posts are, to many people they are just too overwhelming. sure, you can bookmark them for later, but do you get back to them? probably not. so, over the next few months we're updating some of our most popular resource posts and breaking them down into easier to digest chunks in the hope that you'll get more value - and less overwhelm - from them. we're kicking off with one of my favorite resources : the masterclass series for writers. what are masterclasses? this is a series of online education programs that since 2015 has grown to cover many subjects including sport and cooking. however, interesting as these subjects might be, not surprisingly we're going to concentrate on the courses based around writing in all its forms. the courses are taught by preeminent experts in their field: fiction, screenwriting, television, poetry. with names like malcolm gladwell, dan brown, shona rhimes and billy collins it really doesn't get any better than this. this is advice straight from the horse's mouth. all the teachers in these masterclasses have had the kind of phenomenal success most of us dream about. the courses are beautifully produced with multiple videos with lifetime access. (tip: watch any of the introductory videos to the courses to pick up some great advice straight away.) i particularly like that the courses consist of around 25 short videos, which means they're easy to fit in around my schedule without having to set aside large chunks of time. of course, if you do have a longer time slot free, there's nothing to stop you watching several back to back. other material is often included such as downloadable workbooks and as you have lifetime access, you can cover the material at your own pace. are masterclasses worth it? how much you get out of a course will depend on what you're looking for. some of them tend to deal in generalities of the trade, while others break things down more, but this is an inevitable result of different teachers' working methods, as well as the different mediums they work in. at the end of the day just a few golden tips from luminaries like margaret atwood or neil gaiman is surely worth the price of admission alone. after all, i'd be happy just to listen to them remiss about their life and careers. you never know what gems you might pick up: ) below are ten of the top courses currently available. click on any of the links to find out more. as i said, some of the introductory videos are worth watching on their own. malcolm gladwell teaches writing writing for tv a masterclass by shonda rhimes $ credentials renowned storyteller and best-selling author of blink and the tipping point. this is a great course where james reveals a lot of his secrets for becoming a blockbuster author. features 24 video lessons 100% exclusive content lifetime access downloadable class workbook cost $90 for the class $180 for all classes by all teachers or $15/month for all classes by all experts check out malcolm gladwell's masterclass dan brown teaches writing thrillers writing for tv a masterclass by shonda rhimes $ credentials has sold over 250 million copies of his thrillers. this is a great course where james reveals a lot of his secrets for becoming a blockbuster author. features 19 video lessons 100% exclusive content lifetime access downloadable class workbook cost $90 for the class $180 for all classes by all teachers or $15/month for all classes by all experts check out dan brown's masterclass james patterson teaches writing writing for tv a masterclass by shonda rhimes $ credentials author of 19 no.1 new york time bestsellers. this is a great course where james reveals a lot of his secrets for becoming a blockbuster author. features 22 video lessons 100% exclusive content lifetime access downloadable class workbook cost $90 for the class $180 for all classes by all teachers or $15/month for all classes by all experts check out james patterson's masterclass neil gaiman teaches the art of storytelling writing for tv a masterclass by shonda rhimes $ credentials award winning author who has spent more than quarter of a century crafting vivid, absorbing fiction. this is a great course where james reveals a lot of his secrets for becoming a blockbuster author. features 19 video lessons 100% exclusive content lifetime access downloadable companion workbook cost $90 for the class $180 for all classes by all teachers or $15/month for all classes by all experts check out neil gaiman's masterclass judy blume teaches writing writing for tv a masterclass by shonda rhimes $ credentials has sold over 85 million copies of her books. this is a great course where james reveals a lot of his secrets for becoming a blockbuster author. features 24 video lessons 100% exclusive content lifetime access downloadable workbook $90 $90 for the class $180 for all classes by all teachers or $15/month for all classes by all experts check out judy blume's masterclass david mamet teaches dramatic writing writing for tv a masterclass by shonda rhimes $ credentials pulitzer prize-winning author. this is a great course where james reveals a lot of his secrets for becoming a blockbuster author. features 26 video lessons 100% exclusive content lifetime access downloadable workbook cost $90 for the class $180 for all classes by all teachers or $15/month for all classes by all experts check out david mamet 's masterclass billy collins teaches reading & writing poetry writing for tv a masterclass by shonda rhimes $ credentials former u.s. poet laureate. this is a great course where james reveals a lot of his secrets for becoming a blockbuster author. features 20 video lessons 100% exclusive content lifetime access downloadable workbook cost $90 for the class $180 for all classes by all teachers or $15/month for all classes by all experts check out billy collins 's masterclass r.l. stine teaches writing for young audiences writing for tv a masterclass by shonda rhimes $ credentials has sold over 400 million copies of his books. this is a great course where james reveals a lot of his secrets for becoming a blockbuster author. features 28 video lessons 100% exclusive content lifetime access downloadable class workbook cost $90 for the class $180 for all classes by all teachers or $15/month for all classes by all experts check out r.l. stine 's masterclass margaret atwood teaches creative writing writing for tv a masterclass by shonda rhimes $ credentials one of the most influential literary voices of our generation. this is a great course where james reveals a lot of his secrets for becoming a blockbuster author. features 23 video lessons 100% exclusive content lifetime access downloadable class workbook cost $90 for the class $180 for all classes by all teachers or $15/month for all classes by all experts check out margaret atwood 's masterclass shonda rhimes teaches writing for television writing for tv a masterclass by shonda rhimes $ credentials has produced some of television's biggest hits including grey's anatomy. this is a great course where james reveals a lot of his secrets for becoming a blockbuster author. features 6+ hours of video lessons 100% exclusive content lifetime access downloadable workbook cost $90 for the class $180 for all classes by all teachers or $15/month for all classes by all experts check out shonda rhimes's masterclass the masterclass series for writers these three courses are a great selection of courses by experts. they are particularly valueable for those of us who want to learn to write for the screen, or tv or to learn dramatic writing. they’re beautifully produced with multiple videos with lifetime access. click on any of these links to check them out (play the videos to get some hot tips straight away tweet130 pin8 share71 209 shares related posts how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous by laura tong gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch about the author laura tong laura tong is the editor here at write to done and her writing regularly features on such top blogs as huffpost, tiny buddha and of course write to done. she’s a published author (traditional and indie) and has written books as diverse as luxury travel, surreal fiction, autobiographical and personal development. ←previous post next post→ latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >