skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » tools » 10 most popular free content management systems (cms) 2020 10 most popular free content management systems (cms) 2020 march 26, 2020 alex ivanovs tools 10 comments here you will find all the most popular content systems that you can use to build your website and manage its content with ease. when it comes to building websites that are focused on content, the best option is usually to opt for a content management system. having a custom website developed without a solid maintenance budget for the future can have a huge effect on your business operations in the long run, whereas most of the current content management systems today are open-source and easily maintainable, not to mention free. w3techs content system management report suggests that the leading top three cms’s are accountable for more than 70% of total cms usage across all websites on the web. you can learn more about the other types of content management systems out there using this site. this roundup of the leading content management systems focuses on both the leading platforms, but also specific niche ones in markets such as ecommerce. list of most popular content management systems available today. content management system market share 2020. it indicates that wordpress is used by 36.3% of all the websites globally. and it has content management system market share of 63.1%. startups, ecommerce business owners, creative artists, writers, and many others who come from similar fields have realized that you don’t have to invest tens of thousands of dollars into your own personal content platform, and instead it’s possible to rely on what is already out there, fully established and support by community of millions. the following list of the most popular content management systems has been gathered thanks to data from some of the leading analytics platforms on the web, and we have made sure that there is enough variety so that anyone and everyone can find a solution to their particular idea. explore 2.5 million digital assets including 1,700+ cms templates 2m+ items from the worlds largest marketplace for cms templates, themes & design assets. whether that’s what you need, or you’re just after a few stock photos – all of it can be found here at envato market. download now wordpress a household name in content management system market, wordpress is the ultimate publishing platform and cms for the web. sites of all sizes rely on wordpress to help publish, manage and organize content of wide variety; articles, tutorials, photos, videos, stories, and much more. wordpress is not only easy to learn, but also highly flexible towards beginners and experienced users alike. the public plugin repository has an estimated 40,000+ free plugins available for download, while the public wordpress theme database has over 2,100+ styles to choose from. wordpress has become the standard for a website that’s both functional and pleasant to browse. startups and mobile applications have long transferred to wordpress for their website needs, not only because of the wide variety of styles available and the ease of design flexibility, but because wordpress is secure, reliable and pleasant to work with. wordpress users have the option to built a site of any context; ecommerce, business, creative, community, non-profit, and so forth. shopify (ecommerce) shopify is another ecommerce cms platform that is more focused on helping freelancers, small businesses. it also helps corporation size businesses that need reliable and secure ecommerce platform services. it has been around for long enough to be respected as one of the leading ecommerce content management platforms. it’s also home to some several million community members who actively use shopify to sell, buy and trade products. shopify works beautifully with any type of device. this makes it very appealing to those who don’t have a huge budget to shell out on custom designs. besides that, shopify offers a range of designs which you can fully optimize yourself. joomla! joomla! is for those who are looking for a little bit of a challenge when it comes to content management, at least in terms of coding power. in many ways, the developers built joomla! with medium to large sized sites in mind. joomla’s! code base is much more sophisticated than that of wordpress, but it comes at the benefit of more scalability and more back-end integration. many of the people that i know who are using joomla! are quite fond of features like native front-end content editing, content management flexibility, and a native integration of multiple languages which makes the sites content more friendly towards visitors of foreign nature. drupal drupal goes even deeper into the architecture of the content management system itself, and because of how widely adapted it is to professional coding standards, a lot of engineer and developer-type webmasters have adapted to drupal as their primary content management platform. it offers more than 30,000+ extendable modules to bring your site to a whole new level, as well as 2,000+ individual and unique themes that will help to build the site that you’ve always wanted to build. thousands of members participate in daily forum discussions, meaning that finding support for drupal is really not a problem, rather a question of whether you really need help or are there resources available that can solve your problem without having to visit the community forums. wix wix is by far the most popular website builder out there wil millions of users worldwide. it is considered as cms but it is not a standalone cms meaning you are tied with their service. it is a great service regardless but keep in mind that you can’t decide where and how to host it. this makes it much easier to setup and use than most but might become pricity as your business and traffic to your website grows. magento (ecommerce) ecommerce is a market in itself, and it’s important that we realize that for some of our ecommerce tasks, perhaps the best choice is to opt for an independent ecommerce platform altogether, and one such platform is magento. whether you’re looking for a small business solution in an environment where nobody really understands technology, or you’re working from a corporation that needs a professional enterprise ecommerce solution — magento is likely to be a choice that won’t disappoint you in either way. companies like nike, gant, and cort are just some of the people on the client list of magento’s ecommerce platform. blogger blogger has evolved drastically over the years. but, it keeps its legacy towards being a blogging platform. developers utilize it as a content management system in more ways than one. in recent years, a lot more flexibility was introduced in the way blogger sites can be styled. this means that photographers, foodies and creatives have more room for building a content platform that suits their needs. blogger is part of google, and offers a range of features like custom domains, custom styles, and customization options. typo3 the biggest argument about typo3 versus other content management systems is that typo3 has been built exclusively to serve sites of a much larger magnitude, as well as to be a native content management platform, whereas platforms such as wordpress are traditionally considered to be native blogging platforms. typo3 is popular amongst corporate websites, thanks to its integration of features that would otherwise require extensions or plugins. we all know that these slow down the site and overall site performance nut typo3 integrated them for you. the developers made tpo3 highly flexible. you can also extend it using new functions without writing any program code. vbulletin vbulletin used to be just a forum platform. in the recent years, a switch happened from traditional forum community services to a more content management oriented platform. it also still involves a lot of community involvement through native forum functions. those who wish to build a community around their content should look at vbulletin as one of the top choices. it is secure and the team behind this platform have over a decade of experience with building platforms. it also supports some of the largest communities in the world. it’s the perfect platform for webmasters who want to create a lot of content with the help of community. liferay liferay is a fairly new player in the cms game, but is already home to some 1,500+ customers. these customers enjoy building unique websites, customer portals, membership sites, and content resources for needs of any variety. liferay’s modern approach to design and technology has enabled them to attract their audiences. audiences that wants to build professional and good looking sites with the help of latest advancements in content technology. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. cmsdrag and drop builderpage builderwixwordpress share this share tweet pin it share alex ivanovs alex is a freelance writer with more than 10 years of experience in design, development, and small business. his work has been featured in publications like entrepreneur, huffington post, thenextweb, and others. you can find his personal writing at the divine indigo. related posts top 27 angular components for web developers it doesn't often happen that a framework takes over the landscape of web development in… top 15 google chrome extensions for web designers 2019 google chrome is the most recognized web browser there is, and not because it's built… 23 best free javascript frameworks for web developers 2019 which javascript frameworks to use and why? we are about to find out! the javascript… 30 react components for web developers 2019 it's very rare to see a library take off the way react.js has in just… top 13 tools to improve your dropbox experience dropbox is unquestionably the most recognized brand name in the cloud storage industry. it enables… 25+ sketch ui kits for a productive creative flow 2018 are you an app developer or website designer who is looking for an inexhaustible resource… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 20 exceptional free contact form design templates to complement your website 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×