home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance search emerging education technologies home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance home collaboration & brainstorming 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of... 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) by kelly walsh - september 7, 2014 68 share facebook twitter start the new school year with more fun, engaging techniques and resources than you’ll probably be able to use all year! are you looking for ways to integration technology in your lesson plans and courses that provide for an engaging experience for you and your students? fans of instructional technology know that it can be fun and inviting, and engaged students are far more likely to be learning. i believe that if you can get students involved and motivated effectively enough, you can improve their learning habits over the long term. with that in mind, here are 10 highly engaging uses of technology in the classroom, along with dozens of tools and resources for implementation. most of these involve free web based tools, so that's an added bonus! interactive collaboration the 2014 gates foundation report, teachers know best: what educators want from digital instructional tools, indicates that teachers want tools “supporting student collaboration and providing interactive experiences”. these types of tools are fun and engaging, and they support 21st century skills like collaboration, communication, and creativity. learning this compelled me to write the article, “20 fun free tools for interactive classroom collaboration”, which has been in the top 10 most popular posts on the site since i published it in may. we followed that in july with “5 more cool tools to take classroom collaboration to a new level”, another popular post. so there you have over two dozen fun free interactive collaboration tools to consider using in your classes this year! gathering feedback the potential to gather structured feedback in moments is a powerful aid to instruction, and thanks to proliferation of internet enabled devices, it’s never been easier. hi-tech or lo-tech, it’s easy to gather student input and feedback in today’s classrooms. here’s a number of tools and techniques for doing so: surveys/polls (using any internet enabled device): when you use web based survey and polling tools, users can often participate from any web-enabled device. surveymonkey is a popular web based survey tool that provides for a small survey at no cost. doodle, polldaddy, and surveyanyplace, are a few other alternatives. clickers: also known as student response systems, these devices make it really easy to gather student feedback. click here to read a story about a contest winner we had on the site back in 2010 who used clickers to help improve fcat scores. plickers: this is a relatively lo-tech, and highly affordable alternative to clickers that does not require students to have an electronic devices! learn more here. more advanced, education-specific tools: apps like socrative are great examples of the maturing tool set available to educators. twitter! twitter is a unique, fun way to gather feedback when students have a way to tweet. create a unique hashtag and have students use it in their tweets, to create a custom stream of student tweets. in this article, a college of westchester teacher explains how twitter helped engage her students in the course material. embedding questions in videos today’s students consume video like drinking water. as today’s teachers leverage this fact by using video for instructional purposes more than ever, free tools that enable educators to embed questions are powerful aid. when students are asked to consume video content outside of class, how can you help to ensure that they are really engaging with the content? here’s an excellent approach. educanon: i recently created this ‘3 minute teaching with technology’ tutorial video showing how easy it is to use educanon to do this. edpuzzle (edpuzzle.com): i haven’t tried this one yet, but i heard about it at flipcon14, and people seem to really like it! ed.ted.com: this is a different approach – one that allows for the building of a quiz and other interactive content after the video is viewed. active learning this is a personal favorite of mine. tech tools can be great for active learning in the classroom. whether your preference is for inquiry based learning, constructivist learning, experiential learning, or one of the various other labels for or sub-categories of active learning, there are applications and resources available to enable this teaching construct in your classroom. here’s a few web based resources for further exploration: how can technology be used with inquiry-based learning? (tips for teachers) experiential learning with the help of technology problem based learning projects how does technology complement constructivism? social learning bandura’s social learning theory posits that “people learn from one another, via observation, imitation, and modeling”. of course, the type of socialization that occurs via “social” computer tools is certainly different than face-to-face social interaction, but it still offers opportunities for social learning. moreover, when it comes to blended and online learning, making an effort to bring social elements into the picture can truly help to fill one of the gaps that digital learning can have when contrasted with face-to-face learning. some resources to learn more: 7 ways that social networking tools can enable social learning in the classroom 3 benefits of [digital] social learning can social media play a role in improving retention in higher education? research says it can. using technology to help to ensure engagement with digital content as digital learning content becomes increasingly commonplace, one challenge we teachers are faced with is how to make sure that students are engaging with content they are consuming. unlike the traditional textbook, digital content generally lends itself to much easier distraction. one technique to help ensure that this type of content holds students’ attention is to make it interactive, requiring responses and actions during consumption. we’ve already looked at embedding questions in videos as one example. other techniques can include clicking on simple response requests, embedding discussion forums in content, or using techniques like k-w-l or wsq. whatever approach you take, it’s worth considering some sort of measure to help ensure engagement. student created presentations i’ve written a few times about the inspiring nature of student created content. surely, one of the most rewarding moments a teacher can have is when they see the pride a student’s face when they share something they have created. in the article, student created content is an exciting and inspiring learning tool that teaches many skills, we look at student uses of ibooks and imovie. as another example, i shared presentations created by students in my emerging information technologies course using a variety of presentation tools in this article. project based learning one very well-known form of active learning is project based learning, and technology lends itself to pbl in so many ways. heck, there’s no need for me to write much more on this when so many others have! edutopia's curated compilation of online resources for understanding and beginning to implement project-based learning 12 timeless project-based learning resources from teachthought project based learning resources from the buck institute for education digital makerspaces the makerspace movement is of my favorite new ‘trends’ (although i really kind of hate that word) in education. while i fully embrace the many non-digital maker tools that are available and should be a part of any robust school-base maker space, digital tools can also be used to create. here’s a few resources focused on the intersection of ‘digital’ and ‘maker’ in the education space: getting to know the makerspace movement in education 3d printing and makerspaces essential information on maker movement flip your class to free up class time for more engaged learning one of the primary challenges in getting engaged in the classroom can be making the time for it. if a course has a lot of learning content that has to be delivered, many teachers will use class time to that end. flipped teaching and learning is a technique that addresses the question, “what is the best use of valuable face-to-face class time?” by making more class time available to be used as you see fit. getting active and engaged is a great way to use that time! here are some select resources for learning more about flipped teaching and learning: this lessonpath provides a through introduction to the flipped classroom. these 5 short videos from sams and bergmann answer many key questions about the flip. flippedclassroomworkshop.com is a web site packed with great resources for learning more about flipped instruction. well, there you have it … a plethora of engaging using of technology for your classroom. have fun! related posts 5 tech savvy teaching tools that your students will love and your peers will envy 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring increase student engagement with the top hat lecture platform 20 fun free tools for interactive classroom collaboration tags best practices in online student engagement best tools techniques technology for engaging students education technology can engage students and enable them to use digital media to change their world engaging students with education technology excellent free easy tools for teaching engaging students share facebook twitter tweet previous article5 excellent tools to assist visually impaired students with mobile technology next articleusing todaysmeet as a formative assessment tool kelly walsh https://www.emergingedtech.com kelly walsh is chief information officer and ciso at the college of westchester, in white plains, ny, where he also teaches. in 2009, walsh founded emergingedtech.com. he frequently delivers presentations and training on a variety of education and technology topics at schools and conferences across the u.s. walsh is a flipped learning network board member. he also writes regularly for university business magazine. in his "spare time" he writes, records, and performs original music ... stop by kwalshmusic.com and have a listen! [disclaimer: the opinions expressed here are my own, or those of other writers, and not those of my employer. - k. walsh] 68 comments how to get your students to perform better – the scientific approach (pygmalion effect) | emerging education technologies march 27, 2020 at 12:42 pm […] 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) […] orkineste january 24, 2019 at 1:13 am very information post…thanks for sharing. kelly walsh january 19, 2019 at 8:21 am thanks leo – i had not heard of hypersay before! thanks for sharing. leo budrinca january 18, 2019 at 6:50 am hi, did you try https://hypersay.com? hypersay is web tool that schools and teachers can use to engage students in classrooms. teachers can create lessons with a variety of interactive features: real-time quizzes, open questions, videos, images, links, a question wall, instant feedback, follow-up and engagement analytics. students access the lesson through a session code. teachers control and synchronise the pages inside the students mobile device. kinose aiskehene january 5, 2019 at 6:25 am great article…thanks for sharing final draft – online learning: engagement through internet resources november 4, 2018 at 9:48 pm […] instructional-technology/ […] working draft – online learning: engagement through internet resources november 3, 2018 at 1:24 pm […] instructional-technology/ […] raghav sharma july 27, 2018 at 12:56 am amazing article, in today’s fast-changing world, educational institutes need to integrate technology in education to make students future ready. great work!!! affordable dissertation uk may 31, 2018 at 12:23 am i would like to thank you for the efforts you have made in writing this article. i am hoping the same best work from you in the future as well. online resources: useful websites and additional software – electrical vybs april 24, 2018 at 5:10 pm […] emerging ed tech […] eidt6501 week 6 assignment blog posting – a blog for learning how to be an instructional designer april 12, 2018 at 3:20 pm […] https://www.emergingedtech.com/2014/09/most-engaging-uses-of-instructional-technology/ embedding questions in videos. […] shenandoah next gen leadership cadre february 23, 2018 at 2:20 pm […] tech for student engagement – resources to make your teaching more engaging. […] strategies for integrating technology – integrating instructional technology october 29, 2017 at 8:11 pm […] engaging uses of instructional technology […] fluff your way to a revolution | e. therrien february 15, 2017 at 11:07 pm […] technology, and i really do think that it is working well in our classrooms and can help us both differentiate and engage a brand new set of learners. however, nothing is without some fault, and if we don’t think critically about educational […] kelly walsh january 30, 2017 at 8:23 am great comment michelle – thanks for sharing! michelle allain january 30, 2017 at 7:00 am 12 timeless tips for project based learning brings to mind one my favorite teachers, mrs. humphrey. she used project-based learning in the classroom before we had computers and we created our own story or poem (our way) using the resources which were available to us. i not only became a better writer, i became a better speaker, presenter and gained self-confidence. furthermore, she saw something in me that neither she nor i knew was there. katieaycock | pearltrees november 12, 2016 at 9:15 am […] if more teachers are to follow their lead, educators across the country say they need additional—and better—training. now a nonprofit and several companies founded by teachers have stepped in. what-it-takes-to-move-from-passive. 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) […] educational technology | pearltrees november 11, 2016 at 5:53 pm […] online or virtual schools enroll students on a full-time basis. state operated district operated. 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) are you looking for ways to integration technology in your lesson plans and courses that provide […] « older comments leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here * search the site! * get a copy of the free education technology resources ebook as our thank you for subscribing to our blog posts! subscribe name: email: we respect your email privacy categories categories select category 3 minute teaching with tech tip (video tutorials) 3d printing in education adaptive learning administrative solutions artificial intelligence assessment augmented reality, virtual reality best education and technology videos blogs & blogging book reviews collaboration & brainstorming comics and cartooning competency based education cyber safety awareness and prevention digital badges digital literacy education technology success stories educational games & gamification electronic portfolios facebook (classroom and instructional uses) financial literacy awareness flipping the classroom (reverse instruction) fln hub syndicated posts free tools & resources future of education technology interactive white boards interviews – education technology thought leaders ipads and other tablet devices iphones and smartphones learning analytics learning management & course management systems lecture capture making the case for education technologies mobile learning resources moocs (massive open online courses) morning motivation open educational resources oer picture and image editing podcasting, vodcasting, & video hosting polls, surveys portals powerpoint presentation tools professional development project based learning screencasting social media & social learning special needs students story telling & timelines student centered learning student response systems teaching coding twitter uncategorized workshops & conferences _ miscellaneous tools and topics emergingedtech on social media 9,687fanslike 320followersfollow 9,733followersfollow 2,290subscriberssubscribe popular posts 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle the multiple uses of augmented reality in education 20 fun free tools for interactive classroom collaboration mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring come explore the flipped learning network! recognition for emergingedtech! even more news how to get your students to perform better – the scientific... march 27, 2020 5 things schools should do to help ensure student data privacy march 24, 2020 the bright side of remote teaching and administration – when preparation... march 20, 2020 popular category _ miscellaneous tools and topics502 free tools & resources502 future of education technology315 making the case for education technologies283 ipads and other tablet devices259 professional development239 iphones and smartphones200 ©