10 photos of plus-size models we deserve a pat on the back for running slideshow 10 photos of plus-size models we deserve a pat on the back for running wednesday 9:05am • see more: slideshow slideshowvol 56 issue 12 watch us bravely shatter stereotypes by running a photo of this full-figured woman. we are a courageous media company and should really be applauded for what we are doing here, because it is groundbreaking. advertisement who says big can’t be beautiful? and how deeply admirable is it that we, a news outlet, are raising such a taboo question in such an original and non-exploitative way? you gotta give it up to us. advertisement you see, most models have a slender body type traditionally favored by mass media, but we—and only we—are willing to break boundaries and show off women who may not meet the conventional standards of beauty. we are heroes for doing this. advertisement another plus-size model, presented without comment. can you believe that we’re even doing something so astonishing? please share this slideshow and tell everyone how astonishing we are. advertisement beauty comes in all shapes and sizes. we are goddamn saints for recognizing that and making a slideshow about it. advertisement fucking christ, look at how open-minded and sensitive we are for running this photo. holy shit, you know? how special is this? advertisement this overweight model is not white, which is also a progressive thing, and the onion is an incredibly perceptive publication for working that point into this slideshow as well. advertisement once again, keep in mind that all the models in this slideshow, including this one, are plus-sized. that’s the point of this, you see. to show that it doesn’t matter to us. do you see what we’re doing here? advertisement years from now, generations of americans will remember and honor the day the onion ran this slideshow. historians will speak of a time when people had unrealistic standards of beauty and how this news institution changed all of that forever. advertisement what a great slideshow, right? just terrific stuff. anyway, we thank you for your congratulations and would like to say that we couldn’t be more proud of what we’ve accomplished here today. this was a great one. you’re welcome. advertisement more from the onion how the 1% are responding to coronavirus increasingly unhinged melissa clark instructs ‘new york times’ readers how to make pizza from old cardboard box haunting photographs capture empty spaces around the country amid shelter-in-place orders kawhi leonard misses second consecutive family game night citing load management