avocadu healthy from the inside out blog gut-14 probiotics resources about login start my 21-day challenge! weight loss yoga healthy living recipes supplements 21-day challenge yoga fat loss bible get the 21-day fat loss challenge free training guide! start your journey to losing 10-21 pounds in just 21 days... get my free guide! you are here: home / weight loss / 10 reasons why juicing for weight loss works, works, works july 11, 2019 by avocadu 1 comment this post may contain affiliate links. please read our disclosure for more info. 10 reasons why juicing for weight loss works, works, works 271shares if you’re one that cringes at the mere mention of the word “metabolism” because you think yours is broken, you’ll want to listen up! did you know that nutrients run your metabolism? it’s almost impossible to lose weight if you don’t get the right amount of nutrients every day. very few people get the required vitamins and minerals that they need in general due to the readily available processed and convenience foods on the market today. it’s too easy to not take the time to cook up some vegetables or god forbid–just eat a whole apple! juicing is a great way to get all the good stuff you need that’s going to boost your metabolism and help you turn into the lean, mean, fighting machine you’ve always wanted to be. the reason that juicing is so popular for weight loss is that it works! here are 10 reasons why it’s so effective… juicing reduces how many calories you take in let’s face it; most of us who have weight issues eat too much and don’t always make the best choices when it comes to food. we tend to beeline toward comfort foods that are high in calories and fats. if you replace just one meal with juice every day, you’re going to take in a lot fewer calories. fresh juice is nutrient dense, but low in energy density, which means that it has fewer calories per weight than foods that are high in energy density, like bread and meat. the only downside of having a juice instead of simply eating fresh fruits and vegetables is that you feel less full than you would if you noshed on a salad because you’re not getting any fiber from it. becuase of this, you’d never want to substitute a juice for a larger meal like lunch or dinner. many juice lovers feel that the best time to juice is first thing in the morning on an empty stomach, and it makes for a great drink on the go on your morning commute. another great time is around the 2:00-3:00 slump when you’re feeling like reaching for a bag of chips or other snack. a juice is a great alternative! nutrients are more easily absorbed from juice back to the fiber discussion… juice floods your body with hardcore vitamins, minerals, enzymes, and antioxidants, without all the fiber. fiber is what makes certain foods hard to digest. for some people, a little less fiber can be a good thing. especially if you experience any digestion issues. and don’t get us wrong, you need fiber in your diet, especially if you’re trying to lose weight! but the lack of fiber in juices means that your body can more readily absorb the nutrients. you’re getting the juice from raw foods, so it’s loaded with the phytonutrients you need to keep your gut and the rest of you healthy. most of us don’t get the required daily amount of fruits and veggies in our diet, so juicing is a great way to make sure you do! (1) and to continue our discussion on gut health… juicing gives your gut time to rest and repair if your lifestyle is anything like most americans, your gut gets slammed every day with stress, toxic foods, and medications. all of this junk can damage your intestines over time and cause digestive issues like leaky gut, which is the cause of so many health problems, it’s not even funny. people with leaky gut can have a horrible catch-22 happen where it becomes difficult to digest the very foods that they need to eat to get healthy. juicing can solve that problem by introducing all these yummy nutrients that can be quickly assimilated into the body. juicing also gives the body a break from digestion, so it can use the energy it normally expends on breaking down food for something else, like healing. but if you don’t have any digestion issues, make sure you’re also eating a serving or two of vegetables at every other meal (outside of your juice) to get your fiber in! harmful foods are eliminated from the diet when you do a full-on juice cleanse, it eliminates every harmful food from your diet, albeit temporarily. gluten, processed foods, sugar, preservatives, and dairy are the worst offenders when it comes to the war against weight loss. doing a juice cleanse is a great way to stop every bad thing you’re doing and give your body a much needed break so that it’s ready to start losing weight. it’s like getting a do-over where you can start from scratch once the cleanse is over, and create new, healthier habits. the national institutes of health published the results of a study that followed 120,000 people over four years. it found that obesity and processed foods, sugary drinks, and red meat are directly linked. (2) not a big surprise there, but it’s worth repeating… perhaps the best part of doing a juice cleanse… it takes the guesswork out of what you’re going to put in your body for a few days. you won’t be a slave to your cravings and constantly thinking about what your next meal is going to be. juicing keeps you hydrated most people don’t drink enough fluids, and what they do drink is usually dehydrating to the body, like coffee and soda. studies show that increased hydration leads to weight loss and an increase in metabolism. (3) drinking more water is a must for people trying to lose weight, and eating and drinking juiced foods that have a high volume of water is just as beneficial. your body functions more efficiently when it’s got a tank full of fluids to work with. everything is nice and lubricated, and it doesn’t have to work so hard to digest, which gives you more energy. have you ever been totally spaced out and groggy, only to realize you haven’t had anything to drink for hours? your body uses more energy to do what it needs to do because it doesn’t have enough water. drinking plenty of fluids will also help you feel full and keep from boredom snacking! it can help control food cravings the food cravings that make you sleepwalk to the freezer and grab a pint of ice cream in the middle of the night are called hedonic hunger. juicing can help you fight the cravings that throw you off your diet game, especially if you include spinach in the recipe. the membranes in spinach leaves are called thylakoids, which slow down the digestive process and give the intestines enough time to tell the brain that it’s had enough to eat. a study done on 60 people who took thylakoid extract found that that it significantly reduced hunger and cravings, and made the participants feel fuller and more satisfied with what they ate. (4) juicing stabilizes blood sugar type ii diabetes is caused by poor diet, stress, obesity, and other unhealthy lifestyle issues. getting nutrients from vegetables and fruits that have insulin-like properties will help control blood sugar. carrots, apples, spinach, and cucumbers are all common ingredients in juice recipes, along with chlorophyll-rich foods like spirulina, wheat grass, and barley grass. juices that are made with these fruits and vegetables are going to help your body regulate sugar. (5) but please keep this in mind… you should avoid drinking pure fruit juices… the bulk of your juice should come from vegetables, and you should only use 1 piece of fruit to add some flavor–because fruit is still added sugar in your diet. fruit is loaded with natural sugars that can have a negative effect on blood sugar and actually do more harm than good. stick to veggie juices with leafy greens and a little bit of fruit for best results if weight loss is your goal! you’ll sleep better when you juice when you don’t sleep enough, it’s hard to lose weight. your body doesn’t have enough time to break down fats and nutrients, it doesn’t have the time or energy to create the chemicals that help you burn calories, and it’s also too busy to make the hormones that regulate hunger. (6) in a nutshell, if you don’t sleep, you don’t lose weight. nutrients like vitamins b12, c, a, folate, and magnesium, promote healthy sleep. pick veggies with these ingredients to juice and you’ll have a blissful night’s beauty rest. it will let your liver rest and detox back to the subject of detoxing… let’s talk about your liver. just about everything you put into your body eventually makes its way to the liver for processing. your liver is like your body’s bouncer and makes sure no unsavory characters get into the party. it detoxifies everything, then sends it on its way, so if you eat or drink too much unhealthy stuff, or take a lot of medicines, it gets overworked and overwhelmed. when it does, it doesn’t do its job properly and allows toxins to release into the bloodstream. juicing can give the liver a nice break so that it has time to process the toxins it’s weeded out from your wild lifestyle choices. now, it’s time to look up some good juicing recipes! here is a great article to get you started. remember that if weight loss is your primary goal, adding juice alone to your diet won’t make much of an impact if you don’t change the rest of your diet. if you want a fast weight loss plan that actually works, check out our 21-day fat loss challenge! the challenge lasts 21 days, but it can be repeated as many times as you need to reach your goal weight! and if you liked this article on how to use juicing for weight loss or have any questions for us, please leave us a comment below! we’d love to hear from you! the following two tabs change content below. bio latest posts lauren mcmanus hey y'all! my name is lauren and i pretty much run the show over here at avocadu! we believe in quality over quantity and that diet is everything when it comes to your health and well-being. in short, we believe in being healthy from the inside out. latest posts by lauren mcmanus (see all) weight loss bullet journal – how to use your bullet journal to lose weight - august 5, 2019 6 ways to use meditation to lose weight - july 29, 2019 phentermine for weight loss: does it work and is it safe? - july 22, 2019 271shares this post may contain affiliate links. please read our disclosure for more info. filed under: weight loss get the free 21-day training guide! jumpstart your weight loss with this free fast fat loss training! success! now check your email to confirm your subscription. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive the free email course. get my free guide! powered by convertkit 1 leave a reply 1 comment threads 0 thread replies 0 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 1 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest sarah this is great article! thank you for sharing this. this is all true. juicing, together with healthy and active lifestyle, will surely help not with just weight loss but for overall healthy body and mind. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago losing weight with a partner – how to start a program together! how jennifer lost 78.4 lbs with a healthy diet and support system hey, y'all! i'm lauren! i'm so excited you're here! at avocadu, we believe in quality over quantity and that diet is everything when it comes to your health and well-being. in short, we believe in being healthy from the inside out. learn more → recent posts weight loss bullet journal – how to use your bullet journal to lose weight 6 ways to use meditation to lose weight phentermine for weight loss: does it work and is it safe? rapid weight loss: lose 10 pounds in 10 days (diet + workout + new you) how jennifer lost 78.4 lbs with a healthy diet and support system categories blog healthy living recipes supplements weight loss yoga copyright © 2020 · disclaimer · privacy policy · comment policy · terms & conditions · contact · the new grind llc dba avocadu.com is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com.wpdiscuz 271shares 271