start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising communication motivation advertising 10 simple ways to stop overthinking scott christ scott christ is a writer, entrepreneur, and founder of pure food company. read full profile share pin it tweet share email analysis paralysis. it’s when you do a whole lot of thinking … but you never take action. let’s look at new year’s eve resolutions as an example. every year, millions of people say they’re going to make big changes in their lives. and yet only 12 percent of folks stick to their resolution. advertising why? it’s not that they don’t want to change. but when you don’t set a plan in place for getting off your butt and taking the steps necessary to making your goal happen, then failure is often the result. here are 10 easy ways to stop overthinking and start doing. advertising set short time limits for decisions. one of the easiest ways to stop overthinking is to give yourself “decision making deadlines.” it’s okay to take some time to think through tough decisions. but most decisions shouldn’t require a lot of your time. here’s what i do: set a reminder on my phone when i need to make a decision quickly and am spending too much time thinking about it. become a person of action. the first step is often the hardest. but it’s the most important. if you want to change something in your life, you need to take action now. it sounds simple but most of us just don’t do it. want to lose weight? what have you done today to make that happen? want to quit your job and work for yourself? what action have you taken today to achieve that goal? take baby steps … starting this moment. let go. one of the most important lessons to help you stop overthinking is this: you can’t control everything. there will always be circumstances beyond your control. so embrace your fears, and face them head-on. don’t be afraid to stumble. because you’ll learn valuable life lessons with each failure that will only serve to help you grow. advertising write down your action plan and track your progress every day. this is by far the most effective strategy i’ve used to stop overthinking and become a man of action. it’s very simple too. pick up a cheap daily planner (or find one online). at the beginning of each week, write down the things you want to accomplish that week. then, every day record what actions you’re taking to get there. every day one of the first things i do is list out the things i’m going to do to achieve my goals. and when i check those things off my list, i know i’m closer than i was the day before. burn some calories. exercise is an amazingly therapeutic way to free your mind of negative thoughts and help you keep a healthier body and a healthier mind. exercise doesn’t have to be a chore either. find an activity you love to do, then start doing it every day … even if it’s for five minutes. once exercise becomes a habit that’s part of your every day life, you’ll notice that you start to become a better decision maker (and you’ll look and feel better too). meditate. meditation is a scientifically backed method to help you relax and free your mind. even taking a few minutes every day and focusing on just breathing slowly and deeply can have a profound impact on your life. it’s one of the best ways to help you put things into perspective and stop overthinking. advertising read something inspiring. sometimes too much reading can be counter-intuitive. but reading inspiring words (like you’ll find on lifehack) can help you develop a more positive, motivated mindset. don’t just read and do nothing though. the key is to take that positive energy and turn it into some type of action that gets you closer to where you want to be. do something spontaneous. spontaneity is a fantastic way to break you out of a funk and help clear your head. many of us don’t think we have a lot of opportunities to be spontaneous because of work and family constraints. however, being spontaneous can be something as simple as trying a new food; going to a new class at the gym; or watching a new tv show. the point is, you want to place yourself out of your comfort zone so you can experience different ways of thinking … which can in turn prevent overthinking. talk to a mentor. a lot of times when you’re stuck, an outsider’s opinion can help you overcome your tendency to overthink and overanalyze. so don’t be afraid to ask for help. talk to someone you respect and tell them about your challenges. you’ll find that most people are happy to help, and appreciate the fact that you respect them enough to ask them for help. make a commitment. dr. robert cialdini says in his book, influence: the psychology of persuasion , “once a stand is taken, there’s a natural tendency to behave in ways that are stubbornly consistent with the stand.” commitment is a psychological principle that is one of the best ways to help you stop overthinking. it’s this simple: state out loud what you commit to doing, and frame it as something specific you will do. for example, “i commit to losing 10 pounds and getting in the best shape of my life.” then go and tell everyone you know, which will keep you more motivated and accountable to taking action. share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) advertising advertising more by this author scott christ scott christ is a writer, entrepreneur, and founder of pure food company. 8 simple and effective ways to reach your ultimate goals i want to be happy: 7 science-backed ways to find happiness 17 things emotionally strong people don’t do 10 things to do when you are feeling down 10 things a happy person does differently advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness more by this author scott christ scott christ is a writer, entrepreneur, and founder of pure food company. 8 simple and effective ways to reach your ultimate goals i want to be happy: 7 science-backed ways to find happiness 17 things emotionally strong people don’t do 10 things to do when you are feeling down 10 things a happy person does differently trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.