video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map learning 10 skills you can master during isolation get back to work with some new skills under your belt. next article --shares add to queue grow your business, not your inbox stay informed and join our daily newsletter now! email will be used in accordance with our privacy policy image credit: claudio schwarz entrepreneur store contributor march 24, 2020 4 min read disclosure: our goal is to feature products and services that we think you'll find interesting and useful. if you purchase them, entrepreneur may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. much of the american workforce is now working from home due to self-isolation. most of that group will feel complacent, as they're being just productive enough to get by. but you're not "most of the american workforce," you're an entrepreneur, and it's in your dna to go above and beyond. that said, why not use this time to learn some new skills that can help you start climbing the career ladder when you return? here are 10 of the top in-demand skills worth your time. 1. excel image credit: lex photography microsoft excel is one of the most important office programs on the planet. but how well do you actually know it? this extensive bundle includes nine in-depth courses that will teach you how to get the most out of excel, including how to use vba to automate time-consuming tasks. the course: the complete microsoft excel & vba bundle for $29.99 2. data science image credit: entrepreneur store data scientist is one of the top jobs in america for good reason. the pay is great, and you get to solve interesting, challenging problems every day. learn some of the core technologies you'll need to become one in this seven-course bundle that focuses on microsoft power bi, python, matlab and more. the course: the dynamic data scientist bundle ft. power bi, python & matlab for $29.99 3. copywriting image credit: glenn carstens-peters copywriting is an essential component to any digital marketing team. so, if you're in isolation, why not try to brush up on some of these key skills? this 11-course bundle, taught by a 30-year veteran copywriter with agency experience, will show you how to craft copy that sells, and create a career that lasts. course: the 2020 complete digital copywriting master class bundle for $38.99 4. quickbooks image credit: entrepreneur store tax season is extended, which means you have a little more time to get your books in order. (you still have to file by april 15, though.) quickbooks is the world's leading bookkeeping and accounting software, and learning it can be a huge boon to your business. this eight-course bundle will teach you how to use quickbooks to track your finances and will help make future tax seasons a breeze. the course: the quickbooks pro desktop certification bonus bundle for $24.99 5. video editing image credit: entrepreneur store final cut pro is one of the top video editing programs in the world. if you've ever wanted to shoot and produce videos, this course is your entry to working with final cut pro. you've got time on your hands; why not make a movie? get over four hours of instruction that works for anyone from beginner to expert. the course: the complete final cut pro x course - beginner to intermediate for $14.99 6. languages image credit: bongkarn thanyakij want to learn a new language? beelinguapp uses an innovative approach that puts identical texts side by side while giving you an audio reading of them. this way, you can follow with your eyes while hearing the words, reinforcing what you're learning. this innovative approach has earned beelinguapp awards from the app store and google play. the app: beelinguapp language learning app: lifetime subscription for $39.99 7. adobe creative cloud image credit: tranmautritam interested in photography and design? then you have to get familiar with the adobe creative cloud. this eight-course comprehensive bundle introduces you to photoshop, illustrator, premiere pro and more of adobe's leading creative programs. the course: the all-in-one adobe creative cloud suite certification bundle for $34 8. public speaking image credit: marcos luiz photograph why not use this time to get over your fear of public speaking? this bundle is led by experts who have founded companies, lead motivational speaking programs and more. these are the tried-and-true strategies they've developed to make presenting easier and less scary over four in-depth courses. the course: the 2020 public speaking bundle for $19 9. digital marketing image credit: christin hume now is as good a time as any to start a side hustle, and digital marketing is a great place to focus your efforts. in this five-course bundle, you'll learn how to start a blog and monetize it through content marketing strategies and seo strategies. all five courses are taught by ceo and marketing expert brad merrill, who has conducted marketing trainings for prominent startups and fortune 500 companies. the course: the digital marketing side business certification bundle for $29 10. project management image credit: daria nepriakhina project managers are in near-constant demand as companies aim to be leaner and more efficient. that demand will only go up after this economic downturn. this bundle will prepare you to ace certification exams in agile, pmp, scrum, six sigma and more, putting you on the path to a lucrative project management career. the course: the premium 2020 project & quality management certification bundle for $45.99 more from entrepreneur get heaping discounts to books you love delivered straight to your inbox. we’ll feature a different book each week and share exclusive deals you won’t find anywhere else. sign up now jumpstart your business. entrepreneur insider is your all-access pass to the skills, experts, and network you need to get your business off the ground—or take it to the next level. join now starting, buying, or growing your small business shouldn’t be hard. guidant financial works to make financing easy for current and aspiring small business owners by providing custom funding solutions, financing education, and more. learn more related books the naming book buy from the naming book buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read the unstoppable journal buy from the unstoppable journal buy from amazon entrepreneur books ultimate guide to link building buy from ultimate guide to link building buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read career rehab buy from career rehab buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read entrepreneur voices on elevator pitches buy from entrepreneur voices on elevator pitches buy from amazon barnes & noble indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read no b.s. marketing to the affluent buy from no b.s. marketing to the affluent buy from amazon barnes & noble indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read latest on entrepreneur company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account learning want to learn business skills from howard schultz or writing from malcolm gladwell? now you can. learning get smarter this presidents day with 10 deals on online courses and bootcamps learning 20 skills to learn now and hit the ground running in 2020 learning world's top-selling language app babbel is offering 25 percent off subscriptions podcasts top 25 business podcasts for entrepreneurs