video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map side hustle 10 skills you can turn into a new side hustle why not use that extra time wisely? next article --shares add to queue grow your business, not your inbox stay informed and join our daily newsletter now! email will be used in accordance with our privacy policy image credit: burst entrepreneur store contributor march 27, 2020 4 min read disclosure: our goal is to feature products and services that we think you'll find interesting and useful. if you purchase them, entrepreneur may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. as most of the country is staying home other than for essential needs, there's a good chance you'll find yourself with more time on your hands. no more commute, fewer errands to run, fewer distractions — why not use those newfound minutes productively? learn something new in your free time and you might turn those extra hours into a few extra bucks. here are 10 ideas to get you started: copywriting image credit: kaitlyn baker the course: the 2020 complete digital copywriting master class bundle businesses need great copywriters to make their products stand out online. considering brick-and-mortar stores are closed, copywriters are in even greater demand. this 11-course, expert-led bundle will teach you the secret to writing great copy that sells on any medium. video editing image credit: jackson hayes the course: the complete final cut pro x course - beginner to intermediate video marketing is on the rise, and businesses have to keep up. as such, video editors are in demand, and you can become one with this final cut pro x course. you'll learn how to produce and edit videos in final cut pro x, the leading video software on the planet. microsoft excel image credit: tyler franta the course: the complete microsoft excel & vba bundle excel is the world's most ubiquitous spreadsheet software. most people have a basic understanding of it, but few realize just how powerful it is. in these courses, you'll learn how to use excel like a pro, including how to automate many tasks using vba. graphic design image credit: josefa ndiaz the course: the all-in-one adobe creative cloud suite certification bundle adobe is giving everyone two months of the creative cloud for free. that means there's no time like the present to learn graphic design. this bundle will give you a comprehensive, hands-on education into the entire creative cloud. digital marketing image credit: christin hume the course: the 2020 complete digital marketing for beginners bundle there are more people shopping online than ever before. as such, businesses are in constant competition to attract visitors to their web content. that's where digital marketers come into play. this bundle will teach you how to attract visitors and turn them into buyers through social media, blogs, and many more channels. amazon fba image credit: bench accounting the course: the complete amazon fba a-z bundle considering amazon is one of the few retailers left, taking advantage of its fulfillment by amazon service may not be a bad idea. this bundle will teach you how to do everything from source wholesale products from overseas to setting up a shop and distribution by amazon. before you know it, you'll be making passive income from the comfort of your couch. accounting image credit: pixabay the course: the 2020 accounting mastery bootcamp bundle most people are not numbers people, which is why they need the help of accountants. this bundle will introduce you to bookkeeping and accounting best practices. you'll also learn finance and business math in courses designed for those who do not excel in finance naturally. seo image credit: webaroo the course: seo training for 2020: master search engine optimization course search engine optimization (seo) is a budget-friendly way to get organic traffic to your webpages. that's why many businesses are leaning into seo as a marketing strategy in 2020. this course will teach you the most up-to-date strategies and best practices for creating web-optimized content and attracting users organically. business analysis image credit: helloquence the course: the better business analyst bundle great business analysts can take a company's complicated data and harness it into valuable business insights. that makes them extremely crucial to companies. in this bundle, you'll learn how to use microsoft power bi and other high-tech tools to analyze mass amounts of data and draw action-oriented insights. human resources image credit: nordwood themes the course: the ultimate guide to human resources bundle as more and more companies go remote, it's becoming more valuable to have hr personnel who know how to manage remote teams. (and may even be remote themselves.) this comprehensive guide will teach you all you need to know about running an hr team — both in-person and from afar. more from entrepreneur get heaping discounts to books you love delivered straight to your inbox. we’ll feature a different book each week and share exclusive deals you won’t find anywhere else. sign up now jumpstart your business. entrepreneur insider is your all-access pass to the skills, experts, and network you need to get your business off the ground—or take it to the next level. join now entrepreneur store scours the web for the newest software, gadgets & web services. explore our giveaways, bundles, "pay what you want" deals & more. shop now related books the naming book buy from the naming book buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read the unstoppable journal buy from the unstoppable journal buy from amazon entrepreneur books ultimate guide to link building buy from ultimate guide to link building buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read career rehab buy from career rehab buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read entrepreneur voices on elevator pitches buy from entrepreneur voices on elevator pitches buy from amazon barnes & noble indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read no b.s. marketing to the affluent buy from no b.s. marketing to the affluent buy from amazon barnes & noble indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read latest on entrepreneur company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account side hustle 14 easy ways to make extra money at home side hustle 15 quick ways to make extra cash without quitting your day job side hustle learn how to start a creative side hustle as a photographer side hustle 15 weekend jobs and side gigs to boost your income side businesses 50 ideas for a lucrative side hustle