start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising happiness mental strength advertising last updated on march 11, 2020 10 simple steps to let go of the past grishma giri grishma giri is a passionate writer who shares about lifestyle tips on lifehack. read full profile share pin it tweet share email time flies and the past is behind us now. with the times that we’ve left behind, there are several trials and tribulations we go through in life; we learn from our mistakes and move on. however, there are moments we’ve had in the past that we just can’t let go of. we’re brought down, made emotional and we cry thinking about things that should never have happened to us. but, it’s not the past that defines us. as psychologist carl jung says: “i am not what happened to me. i am what i choose to become.” we all choose to become what we desire and want and we should not regret about the things that did not go well in the past as they only make our shoulders heavy and hold us back from a cheerful life. so how to let go of the past? here’re 10 steps to try: 1. recognize that it’s time to move on the hardest part of letting go of the past is trying to make decisions to move on. yes, it’s pretty hard to make new choices that can overcome our misdeeds in life but you should always remember that you have a future to share. advertising you’ve already paid for the past and if that’s not working out for you, you need to recognize that it’s time to move on. these signs will tell you that it’s time to move on: it’s time to let go and move on when you experience these 21 things 2. make a list of things you can “re-do” life does not give you a second chance all the time. but, what you can do is make a list of things that you would have done differently if you could go back in time and do it again. making such list will help you to learn from your mistakes while also giving ideas on what things should have been done right. you also develop a skill to plan things and this will surely help you shape your future goals in life. 3. believe in yourself pain and suffering are parts of everyone’s life and if you believe in yourself, you’ll overcome the grief sooner than everyone else. all you need to do is make sure you know what you are doing and it’ll not let you hold back in forgetting your past. when you start believing yourself, you develop a positive vibe around you and these feelings you gain will help to overshadow the mistakes and bad memories that haunt you. 4. meditate if you’re frustrated and depressed because of things that happened in the past and nothing worked to change your feelings towards it, you need to start meditating. advertising find stillness, remain calm and take long breathes. with meditation, you get to keep yourself away from the busy and fast paced noisy world. you keep yourself away from distractions and make yourself at ease with meditation. try out this 5-minute guide to meditation: anywhere, anytime. 5. live in the present if you don’t enjoy the life that you are living, you future is certainly going to be dark. you should have no regrets that eat up your thinking and you need to live in present. what’s done is done and there’s no going back. go on a hike with your friends or dance, sing and do what ever you love to do. it’s make you lively and energize you to focus on things that you need to accomplish right now. here’s how to live in the moment and stop worrying. 6. forget the fear if you’ve ever failed in the past, chances are it’s developed a sense of fear in you. if you can’t overcome the fear of your failing and wrong-doing, you’ll get tensed and things won’t work out smoothly. become a challenger and forget the fear. think about things that you’re afraid to do and try to perform them, one at a time and overcome the fear. if it’s still difficult, find someone you believe to help you overcome your fear. advertising learn how to overcome fear and realize your potential (the ultimate guide). 7. don’t forget your morals and values if you’re to perform better in life, you need to stick to your morals and values. there’s no denying that the bad events in life develop a feeling of change in us and changes are not good every time. stick to your beliefs and morals to develop a self-esteem and pride. this plays a huge role in order to develop a positive attitude towards your life. 8. forgive mistakes happen but holding back and remembering the same thing again and again will do nothing good to anyone. if you’ve made mistakes, apologize, console and forgive yourself. if it’s your close ones who’ve hurt you in the past and you just can’t let go of it, acknowledge the fact that they are the one’s you trusted back. you need to learn to forgive and move on to find happiness. take a look at these tips to help yourself: how to forgive and live a happy life again (a step-by-step guide) 9. let go of anger and resentment anger and resentment are toxic. these feelings will keep you enmeshed in the past. they will bring you down to the ground and hurt you more. advertising letting go of anger will help you to develop positive attitude and you might want to punch on the wall or a pillow, or scream; do it. vent your anger and frustration. it might take time, but after you leave anger and resentment, you’ll start feeling fresh. find out how you can let go of your resentment in this article: how to let go of resentment and anger 10. realize that you did what you could do best perceptions shape our feelings and actions. the way you respond to what you did in your past will help you decide on your present and future. if you’ve a feeling of guilt or remorse at things you could have done better, realize that you did what you could do best at that moment. if you acknowledge the fact, you’ll also learn that your effort was never intended to go in vain. this will keep you motivated to improve and thrive for the better in the future. more tips about letting go 21 things to do when you find it hard to let go when you start to let go of your past, these 10 things will happen how to let go of anger when you just can’t stop thinking about it featured photo credit: spencer backman via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 30 essential core values for living the life you want how to forgive and live a happy life again (a step-by-step guide) how to let go of anger when you just can’t stop thinking about it advertising advertising more by this author grishma giri grishma giri is a passionate writer who shares about lifestyle tips on lifehack. 10 simple steps to let go of the past 5 best free websites to learn photography skills easily how to live a rich life without lots of money 8 ways to protect yourself after an accident the 8 best reasons to send flowers to your loved ones advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author grishma giri grishma giri is a passionate writer who shares about lifestyle tips on lifehack. 10 simple steps to let go of the past 5 best free websites to learn photography skills easily how to live a rich life without lots of money 8 ways to protect yourself after an accident the 8 best reasons to send flowers to your loved ones trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next 21 things to do when you find it hard to let go the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.