barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up answers 10 tips & tricks on surviving self-isolation with your dog share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest lisa bernier dir. of bark for good shares share tweet pin this article comes from lisa bernier, bark’s director of advocacy & social impact, aka bark for good. she works with our network of over 1,000 non-profits, ngos and animal welfare experts to help dogs in need and educate humans on dog behavior. those partners are comprised of various organizations in animal welfare and education, including (but not limited to): rescues and shelters, veterinarians, trainers, behaviorists, working dog organizations, therapy dog organizations, search and rescue organizations and urban community programs. she also serves as the resource on programming and education for bark employees on dog behavior and community giveback. additionally, has over 8 years of animal welfare volunteering experience, and has earned a certification of completion in fear free’s shelter program on managing stress for animals in shelters. she is owned by a devil in a dachshund suit named andi, a black and tan hound named pepper, and whatever foster puppy is currently in the rotation trying to destroy her shoes. working from home with your dog seems like a dream (cuddles while typing memos! hanging out with your best friend while doing spreadsheets!) but it can present its own challenges. if you work from home for an extended period of time (a.k.a self-isolation during oh, a 2020 pandemic) that presents a unique challenge to adjusting to a new way of living for them and you. if you get stir crazy, imagine how they feel! to that end, here are 10 tips and tricks to surviving wfh during self-isolation with your dog. 1. establish a routine if you’re cooped up anywhere for an extended period of time, it’s tempting to let schedules fall by the wayside and have the hours blur together. however, for your dog’s sanity (and your own) try to establish some semblance of a routine. even if you can’t go outside as much (or at all) due to health reasons, that doesn’t mean you can’t still feed them at the same time or have potty breaks scheduled during similar times (whether it’s you or a trusted, healthy handler taking your dog out). you can work in a dental routine to keep those pearly whites of theirs shiny. plus, you could schedule in 15-20 minutes of playtime and/or training every day as a mental break for you and an opportunity for enrichment for them! dogs thrive on routine and structure, so trying to either keep one or put one in place even under less than ideal circumstances will help both of you adjust to a new situation. 2. don’t overfeed them i know i knoooow it’s tempting when they stare at you with such adorable eyes. but if you give in every time your pup wants a treat, you’re setting them up for a host of health problems in the long run. according to banfield pet hospital, obesity is linked to over 20 diseases and conditions in dogs, including but not limited to: arthritis, diabetes, urinary incontinence, respiratory disease, and cardiovascular problems. in short, dogs at proper weight lead longer, healthier, happier lives. it can be tempting to give them an extra treat or two, or a bunch of chews to keep them occupied if they’re too rambunctious. but in the long run, it will be more harmful than helpful. check out this chart on how to tell if your pup may be packing on too many extra pounds. 3. exercise! if you can still take your dogs on walks, do so! according to the experts at fear free pets, it is perfectly safe “as long as you’re healthy and not under quarantine, you can walk your dog. just be careful to wash your hands and try not to touch surfaces others have touched.” also, in accordance with health guidelines, if you do see another dog and/or human during your walk, definitely keep at least 6 feet between you. even if your dog looooves greeting others on walks, it’s safer if, during these times, you don’t let them. in that vein, avoid dog parks and other public places where there could be gatherings of several dogs and humans so that you limit your interactions. also, make sure you wash your hands and wipe down your dog’s paws when you get back! if you can’t take walks with them, get a healthy, trusted handler to do so. you can also have active fun with them indoors! try making a mini agility obstacle course. “you can also have exercise sessions between the both of you – if you’re doing sit-ups and push-ups, you can have them do doggie sit-ups and push-ups too– or doggie burpees! how? doing different combos of sit, stand, jump and down consistently for a minute or two works their minds and their bodies. 4. old dogs can learn new tricks dogs need physical stimulation and exercise to be happy, but equally important is providing them appropriate outlets to use their brains and innate senses and instincts. as everyone knows, a bored dog will make entertainment for themselves–and that entertainment can be destroying all the cushions on your couch. during times of prolonged indoor time, enrichment is key to keeping your dog happy. so what kind of enrichment would be good for your dog? shelby semel, owner of shelby semel dog training, suggests, “teach new tricks! use capturing, shaping and luring to teach new cues and tricks. some examples are: weaving through legs, rollover, grabbing a tissue when i say achoo, hand me an item, opening and closing drawers.” additionally, teaching a dog new things for 20-25 minutes straight will tire them out as much as potentially a 1 hour walk. don’t spend 15 minutes on 1 trick though–change it up and make sure you put in things in between that they know so they don’t get discouraged! 5. games! shelby suggests doing some games that also serve as controlled exercise: “tons of fetch, running up and down the halls also can help. within your apartment if there are multiple people you can call your dog back and forth, or even hide a bit like a game of hide and go seek. when they find you they get a tiny treat and then they can go off looking for the next person and then you can change locations. you can call their name and make kissy noises to get them to start looking!” 6. have a problem? let them solve it additionally, any enrichment-focused toys like puzzles, stuffable super chewer toys, or food dispensing toys will also keep your dog happily challenged. you can also make your own diy enrichment toys! shelby suggests, “a treat or two in an empty water bottle or inside a sock can keep a dog occupied for a long time.” in addition, creating snuffle mats or taking a box (perhaps a barkbox 😉 ) and stuffing it with crumpled up paper that hides kibble is a great way to keep a dog entertained. my personal favorite is taking my overactive, overly clever hound into one room, scattering bits of kibble in the room and then closing the door. it keeps her occupied long after she finds all the kibble since she does a thorough search of the room to make sure she doesn’t miss one crumb. this is also something you could do in a yard, as long as you don’t think your dog will consume something in your yard that could be dangerous while searching. 7. play with your dog that’s right! play is another form of enrichment, but it also helps build the bond between you and your pup. play can also be a great way to teach a dog something. making a command into a game is way more fun, and usually gets the dog learning faster. plus, any fun activity you do with your dog (like fetch with their favorite toy) helps to strengthen your relationship. 8. give them a job working breeds especially thrive when they’re given a job – otherwise, they’ll find, er, self-employment. nose work is a great way to do this. as shelby says, “you can make your apartment a nose work course, check out this youtube video here. there are also tons of others and different versions that are even simpler to start. you can experiment and see what works for you and your dog. and if you get really into it, you can get scent oils and really go all in! this is particularly good for hounds and other working breeds but even a maltese or a golden retriever can enjoy!” additionally, you can always create “jobs” that play into their breed strength. for example, sensitive, super smart active breeds like german shepherds excel at rally obedience, which is easy enough to get the basics of indoors. hounds of course are made to track scents, so any puzzles involving smelling will be great for them. retrievers are great at finding and fetching. you get the picture. 9. “learn to earn” this training technique is great for dogs that need a little more focus and structure in their lives. the program is an excellent way to build impulse control for your dog, and improve leadership skills for you. the term, coined by renowned veterinary behaviorist dr. sophia yin has a simple premise: nothing in life is free. everything your dog “wants” they have to “earn.” a simple way to start is by working in a foundation behavior like “sit.” does your dog want on the couch to be next to you? have them sit. do they want their food? have them sit before feeding them. do they want you to throw the ball so they can fetch? get them to sit first. there’s more to it, and for an in-depth explanation and how to implement, check out dr. yin’s website. 10. “me” time and “them” time let’s face it: staying indoors almost 24/7 can make anyone’s nerves frazzle. make sure you and your dog have opportunities to take some “me” time. for them, as the experts at fear free suggests, this can be creating a cozy, comfy den space (like a crate) that they always have access to a place they can retreat to if feeling overwhelmed and stressed. plus, if they have a crate to hang out in, you can also go off and get in some self-care. additionally, you want to make sure to still leave your dog alone from time to time so they don’t get used to you being constantly with you. if you don’t, they could develop separation anxiety when your regular routine resumes. that’s it! for more information and tips and tricks, you can always schedule a virtual session with a trainer such as shelby, or check out informative portals like fear free happy homes. if you need to check in with the vet, but are unable to leave due to stay-at-home orders or limited access, best friends animal society is offering free vet consults during this via their app. remember to follow the cdc guidelines around pets, and stay healthy everyone! for more on our experts consulted for this post: shelby semel is a dog trainer based in nyc. she decided to dedicate her life to working with animals upon graduating from the university of michigan in 2007. she is certified by the certification council for professional dog trainers, and is a member of the association of pet dog trainers (apdt). she is constantly keeping up with the newest development in canine training and studies regarding dog psychology and behavior. her techniques are unique and flexible as no dogs are alike; each training session is tailored to suit each owner and dog. she is the go-to trainer for bark nyc office as well. she currently resides in new york city with her pomeranian taz and chihuahua xena, who makes sure she’s up to par on her training skills! shelby is also a proud volunteer of shelter chic, unleashed ny, and animal care center of nyc fear free: founded in 2016 by “america’s veterinarian” dr. marty becker, fear free provides online and in-person education to veterinary professionals, the pet professional community, and pet owners. our courses are developed and written by the most respected veterinary and pet experts in the world, including boarded veterinary behaviorists, boarded veterinary anesthesiologists, pain experts, boarded veterinary internists, veterinary technicians (behavior), experts in shelter medicine, animal training, grooming, boarding, and more. by closely listening to the needs of the profession and those of pet owners, fear free has become one of the single most transformative initiatives in the history of companion animal practice, providing unparalleled education on emotional wellbeing, enrichment, and the reduction of fear, anxiety, and stress in pets. comments poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up lisa bernier dir. of bark for good quiz: how well can you read your dog? what's your dog's real age? #findfidel 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go