i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: chicken fried steak recipe 30 minutes basics chinese chinese take out easy how to mains recipes that noodle life 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe! posted november 6, 2019 by stephanie stir-fry is always the answer to that ever important question: what’s for dinner? it’s quick, easy, delicious, and infinitely customizable making it the ultimate weeknight dinner when you can’t figure out what to make and want to spend zero energy on dinner. here are 10 tips and tricks to make the best stir fry of your life! 1. carb life unless you’re on a low carb diet, the first thing your should do when making a stir fry is think about the carb. are you having your stir fry with rice? make that pot of rice before you start cooking so you have a fluffy bed of rice for your glossy, glistening stir-fry when it’s done. if you doing a noodle-y stir fry, cook your noodles first or at the same time as the stir-fry is going on so you have them ready to throw into the pan at the right time, at the end. 2. prep work is the best work prep your ingredients and workspace so that everything’s on hand before you even start thinking about turning on the stove. stir fries cook fast and you don’t want to be mixing up your sauce or searching for a spatula while your protein or vegetabes are getting overcooked. if you prep everything, including the sauce, in small bowls or plates right near the stove, once you start cooking, everything will go super smoothly. 3. velvet the meat ever wonder why the meat in stir fry is so juicy and tender when you get takeout? it’s cause it’s been velveted! velveting is a super easy chinese technique of marinating meat in a bit of cornstarch, oil, and seasoning. the marinade tenderizes and seasons the meat and the cornstarch gives the meat a little barrier so it stays juicy during cooking. for one pound of meat, marinate with: 1 tablespoon oil, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, and a pinch of salt or splash of soy. 4. temper temper after you marinate your meat, don’t pop it back in the fridge. keep it on the counter (unless you live in an extremely tropical location) to bring it up to room temp. tempering your meat means it cooks faster, sears better, and doesn’t cool down the oil in your wok (or frying pan). 5. oil always love you speaking of oil, this is where you want to step away from the extra virgin and even regular olive oil. they both have lower smoke points and the point of stir fry is fast and hot. stick to high smoke point oils like grape seed oil, avocado oil, or even canola. 6. same same but different ever notice that stir fries have everything perfectly bite-sized? the reason is two fold: smaller cuts of meats and vegetables cook more quickly and the small size means that everything is easy to pick up with chopsticks. try to cut all your vegetables and meat around the same size so they all cook at the same rate. when cooking the vegetables, add in the ones that take a bit more time at the beginning (mushrooms, carrots, eggplant, etc) and the ones that wilt instantly at the end (all leafy greens). 7. smells so good the first step to any good stir fry is the aromatics: garlic, ginger, shallots, onions, or the whites of scallions. they add that extra hit of flavor in the background. plus they smell amazing. 8. batch it up if you want to do it right, cook your stir fry in batches. it’s kind of a pain but it’s how they do it in restaurants. cooking in batches means you’ll avoid crowding the wok which leads to steaming instead of stir frying and scooping things out of the pan after it’s done cooking means nothing gets overcooked. cook the meat, remove it, cook the veggies, then add the meat back in with the sauce and bring it all together. 9. sauce is life everyone knows that sauce is life. you want it glossy, you want it glistening, you want it all over your rice or noodles. everyone has a different sauce to stir fry ratio. we like it when nothing is drowning, but there’s still plenty of sauce to scoop. make sure you prep the sauce when you’re doing the meat and veggies, that way you can just pour it into the pan at just the right moment. 10. don’t forget to stir don’t forget to stir. usually when cooking, the general wisdom is to let the food have contact with the pan, untouched (think of that crust that you want on steak) but when making stir fry you want to keep the food moving. that’s it! go forth and stir fry like a boss! basic stir-fry sauce a delicious basic stir fry sauce that you can use for all your stir fries serves 1 stir fry recipe prep time 1 min cook time 1 min total time 2 mins ingredients 1/2 cup chicken stock 1 tbsp soy sauce 1 tbsp oyster sauce 1 tbsp toasted sesame oil 1/2 - 1 tbsp sugar depending on taste 1 tbsp cornstarch mixed with 1 tbsp water instructions whisk together the chicken stock, soy sauce, oyster sauce, sesame oil, sugar. whisk in the cornstarch slurry. be sure to mix up before adding to the pan. choose your own adventure stir fry pick your protiens, vegetables, and a carb and choose your own adventure with this quick and easy weeknight stir fry prep time 5 mins cook time 15 mins total time 20 mins ingredients 1 lb meat of coice cut into bite sized pieces 1 tsp cornstarch 1-2 tbsp arromatics of choice see notes 2-3 cups vegetables of choice see notes 1 recipe basic stir fry sauce see above cooked noodles of choice optional instructions marinate the meat in 1 tablespoon of oil, the cornstarch, and a pinch of salt. set aside at room temp and let marinate for 15 minutes or up to 1 hour. chop up your aromatics and cut the veggies into bite size pieces and make sure you have your sauce mixed up. heat up a wok or skillet over high heat. when hot, add a drizzle of oil, then immediately add the aromatics before the heat gets too hot. stir for a couple of seconds, then add the meat and cook, stirring occasionally, until browned and almost cooked though. remove from the pan. if the pan is dry, add a bit more oil, then cook the vegetables, stirring as needed, until they just start to soften. add the meat back in, give your sauce a stir, then add it to the pan. let the sauce bubble and thicken, stirring as necessary. this is when you would add noodles in, if you’re using them. at this point your stir fry should be saucy, glossy and ready to eat! notes aromatics ideas: garlic, ginger, diced onion, shallots. vegetable ideas: carrots, broccoli, snap peas, peppers, mushrooms, corn, long beans, zucchini, eggplant, kale, spinach, celery, cauliflower, asparagus, anything your heart desires. 4 comments anthony says: november 29, 2019 at 11:49 pm this sounds great, amazing stir fry pointers. what kinds of noodles would you suggest for these pan fried noodles: egg noodle or rice noodles and thicker/udon or thinner ramen size noodles? i have tried to make stir frys and soup noodles many times and discovered it is very important what kind you use, it can make or break the dish. reply stephanie says: december 3, 2019 at 11:43 pm hi, any noodles will work, to be honest! it’s just a question of making sure they’re not over cooked before adding them to the stir fry. reply grace kreuser says: march 16, 2020 at 3:19 pm what type of noodles are these? they look so thick n juicy reply stephanie says: march 19, 2020 at 12:44 pm hi! they are udon, you can find them in the frozen section of the asian grocery store :) reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website better than take outchinese foodhow-tostir fry better than takeout sesame noodlesread oven baked orange turkeyread what is doubanjiang & doubanjiang substitutesread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved