barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up life 10 things you may not know about military dogs share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest dina fantegrossi writer shares share tweet pin we at barkpost want to send our heartfelt gratitude to everyone who has played a role in earning and preserving the freedom of our great nation. dogs in the military struggled to earn their recognition as american heroes, and now that they have we’d like to pay tribute by sharing some facts you may not know about these hard working canines. 1. dogs have been in combat with us soldiers during every major conflict, but they were not officially recognized until wwii. sergeant stubby of the 102nd infantry, yankee division went from mascot to hero during wwi after being smuggled into battle by private j. robert conway. stubby went on to detect enemy gas, bark out warnings when rival troops were near and locate the wounded on the battlefield. by the start of wwii, the military had recognized the value canine soldiers could bring and began using them primarily for recon. stubby forged the way for all canine soldiers who followed and remains a symbol of military bravery and heroism to this day. check out stubby’s full story at fallendogs.com 2. they are trained in bomb, weapon and drug detection, tracking, and to attack the enemy. lackland air force base in san antonio, tx has been training sentry dogs since 1958. k9history.com details the manpower and dogpower that goes into training the amazing pups of the department of defense military working dogs training school (dod mwd) at lackland. today, more than 1,000 dogs are trained at any given time by a staff of 125 from all branches of military service. the complex training techniques are designed to utilize the dogs’ natural gifts for focus and aggression to their advantage. german shepherds and labradors can detect weapons, bombs, gases and drugs more accurately than any available military equipment. 3. there are about 2500 dogs in active service today and about 700 deployed overseas. military dogs play an integral role in the current overseas conflicts in iraq and afghanistan. dr. stewart hilliard, chief of military war dog evaluation and training at lackland air force base told san antonio magazine in 2013, “these dogs are among our most effective counter measures against terrorists and explosives.” 4. 85% of military working dogs are purchased from germany and the netherlands. the 2013 article “canines in combat” from san antonio magazine notes that the bloodlines of these dogs go back hundreds of years, making these pups literally “born for the job.” the air force security center, army veterinary corps, and the 341st training squadron are combining their efforts here in the states to breed suitable dogs for military service. currently the other 15% of working dogs are usa born and bred, and the military hopes to increase this number. 5. they are extremely valuable, and not just for their service. according to retired air force k9 handler, louis robinson, a fully trained bomb detection dog is likely worth over $150,000. but really, these animals are priceless. with an average of 98% accuracy in their detection skills, the peace of mind they provide to the troops is immeasurable. robinson resides in phoenix, az and runs robinson dog training. he’s using the extensive skills he learned as a military police k9 handler to help civilian dogs learn basic obedience, search and rescue, therapy skills and advanced protection training. 6. only about 50% make it through training. military working dogs are not just chosen for their breeding or the keenness of their sense of smell, they must possess several other qualities. they must be free of physical issues like hip dysplasia and be highly reward motivated. trainers at lackland use mostly toys like kongs that can be hidden to represent bombs, but treats are also utilized. suitable dogs for military service must also be able to attack on command. pups have actually been dropped from the program due to extreme stress at having to bite a human. military dogs must have just the right level of aggression and excitability. 7. they aren’t all german shepherds. when we think about military dogs, muscular german shepherds tend to come to mind. but several different breeds have shown patriotic heroism over the years. many branches use the highly trainable labrador retriever. the elite us navy seals use the belgian malinois, a breed similar to the german shepherd, but smaller. these dogs are incredibly compact and fast with a sense of smell 40 times greater than that of a human. their small stature make them ideal for parachuting and repelling missions with their handlers. the seals were accompanied by a belgian malinois named cairo during their raid on osama bin laden in 2013. 8. they can get ptsd. just like their human brothers and sisters in arms, pup soldiers are susceptible to the horrors of ptsd. war dogs experience severe emotional trauma during deployment, and for some it becomes too much. gunner, a marine bomb sniffing dog became so skittish and unpredictable during active duty that he was declared “surplus” by the military and released from service. gunner was adopted by the family of corporal jason dunham who was killed near the syrian border in 2004. he and the dunhams are working on healing together. 9. they mourn the loss of their handler and vice versa. in rebecca frankel’s book, war dogs she explores the remarkable bond that develops between service dog and handler. one such pair was marine lance corporal joshua ashley and “sirius”. they were the number one team during training at yuma military base, but tragically josh was killed by an ied just two months after deploying to afghanistan. “sirius” at first refused to take commands from his new handler and showed significant signs of agitation at the loss of his partner. such stories are all too common among canine and handler teams. if a dog of war is lost in combat, he or she is honored by the entire squad. feeding dishes are symbolically placed upside down and a poem called guardians of the night is read in their honor. 10. until november 2000, military dogs were euthanized or abandoned after retirement. before this time service dogs were considered “military surplus equipment” and deemed unfit to adjust to civilian life. these heroes were thrown away or put down instead of honored. president clinton passed “robby’s law” in 2000 which allows handlers and their families first dibs at adopting military animals at the end of their useful service. the dogs are next offered to law enforcement, then adoptive families. organizations like saveavet.org place these retired heroes with suitable families and ensure they are given the honorable discharge they deserve. there are currently long waiting lists of civilians who want to give these veterans a loving home in which to retire. featured image via kevin hanrahan and h/t via navyseals.com, pbs.org, and the wall street journal comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up dina fantegrossi writer how do you housetrain your new dog? what are the weirdest questions dog owners ask the vet? how do you introduce your dog to a new partner? 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go