events resource center magazine contact us march 24, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: marketing strategy marketing 101 coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise 10 tips for organizing your small business this year published: jan 12, 2014 last updated: jan 20, 2016 by nellie akalp in small business operations 41 2.3k shares | 814 1351 284 338 email this article 2.3k shares 814 1351 284 338 email this article an organized business is a productive business. you may not consider yourself blessed with natural organizational skills, but now is the perfect time to get your business and work space organized. below are 10 tips to help you do that and get on track in the new year. how to organize your small business purge your office even if you don’t mind a little mess and dust, too much clutter can add to daily stress and chaos. clutter exists because we think that everything is important. with the new year, toss out whatever is outdated, no longer relevant or a duplicate. for example: recycle the broken electronics you may have stashed in a closet. delete all those old voice messages. donate anything you don’t need or use. keep the basics and anything you’ve used in the past year; all else can go. when your workspace is clean and uncluttered, you’ll enjoy spending time at your desk and won’t waste time searching through junk or moving piles around. organize your paper files one study found that the average person wastes over 4 hours per week searching for papers. go through your filing cabinets and shred anything that’s out of date or no longer relevant to your business. if you’re worried you might one day need four-year old notes from a client project, then scan the originals and throw out the paper files to make more room. ditch paper receipts considering the irs accepts electronic copies of receipts, there’s really no reason for you to continue hanging on to all those tiny paper slips from restaurants, taxis, office supply stores, etc. find a receipt management scanner or app for your smartphone (such as neat receipts) and make sure your solution lets you export data to whatever expense reporting/accounting app you use. use the cloud for storage and sharing if you haven’t done so already, start using cloud-based tools to share and save documents. for example, google drive lets you store up to 15gb for free, while giving clients or colleagues access to collaborate. other tools include dropbox and box. by housing files in the cloud, you can help clean up your personal storage, as well as save valuable time spent emailing documents back and forth when collaborating with others. tame your inbox if your email inbox has become a catchall for every email you’ve received over the past years, it’s time to clean house. it is possible to manage your email inbox so you only see the messages you still need to deal with and everything else is neatly archived for safe keeping. start with a clean slate by filing away everything you no longer need to respond to. next, tame the level of new emails you get each day by unsubscribing to newsletters or other subscriptions you no longer read. create specific folders where non-essential emails go automatically, so they don’t interrupt your daily flow. get the right note-taking tool one key to staying organized and effective as a small business owner is having the right solution for jotting down any tasks or inspirations when they strike. whether you prefer to use pen and paper, voice recording on your smartphone or an app like evernote, the most important thing is that the solution fits into your lifestyle so you’ll use it consistently. tidy up your social media profiles it’s not just your email inbox and desktop that fall prey to clutter. your social media profiles can also become clogged and out of date. first, take stock of where your business has a social presence and drop any accounts that are no longer in use. there’s no point in having multiple pinterest, twitter, facebook, linkedin, tumblr and instagram profiles if you’re not actively posting and monitoring each account. you can also use a tool like justunfollow to weed out any followers who are inactive or aren’t following you back. meet with a tax advisor don’t wait until it’s time to file your returns to start thinking about taxes. make an appointment with a cpa or tax advisor early in the year. if your business is still structured as a sole proprietor, now’s the time to think about protecting your personal assets and gaining other benefits through a formal business structure like an llc or corporation. take charge of your books if you run a small business, you already have some kind of process in place for invoicing, processing payments, recording expenses and tracking projects. but if you haven’t updated your process lately, chances are there’s an app out there to help make these administrative tasks easier and more efficient. take a look at your tablet/smartphone app store for a new tool that could help you get organized and take charge of your books in the new year. for example, there’s freshbooks, mint, kashoo, and indinero to name a few. tie up any legal loose ends this is a perfect opportunity to tie up any loose ends you’ve been putting off in prior years. for example, did you file a dba (doing business as) for your business name? did you get a tax id number? are all your licenses and local permits in order? did you make any changes to your corporation and llc and still need to file an articles of amendment to record those changes with the state? what other tips can you offer to get your business organized this year? organization concept photo via shutterstock 41 comments ▼ 2014-01-12 editor's picks 5 reasons to hire contractors in other countries poll: what best describes your holiday vacation plans? what is a virtual employee? the pros and cons of hiring them nellie akalp linkedin facebook twitter nellie akalp is a passionate entrepreneur, business expert, professional speaker, author, and mother of four. she is the founder and ceo of corpnet.com, a trusted resource and service provider for business incorporation, llc filings, and corporate compliance services in all 50 states. 41 reactions aira bongco january 12, 2014 at 9:09 pm i agree with the utilization of cloud. it is important to keep everything minimalistic by purging everything that you don’t need. of course, this will still depend on how you work. from here, you can determine the things that you need and don’t need. reply nellie akalp january 15, 2014 at 12:20 pm thanks so much for reading and commenting aira! reply diana tan january 13, 2014 at 1:27 am your email inbox and desktop may fall prey to clutter. your social media profiles can also become clogged and out of date. it is time to organize and de-clutter things for any small businesses. reply aira bongco january 13, 2014 at 10:41 pm as a rule, i declutter my inbox everyday. i don’t put off dealing with emails until later. i decide if i need it for later use. if not, i delete it. this way, the number of emails don’t accumulate over time. reply nellie akalp january 15, 2014 at 12:20 pm diana – so true! great added tip! reply anand january 13, 2014 at 7:32 am can’t stress the importance of cloud enough. there was another study conducted recently that showed that the average cost of printing and couriering official documents in the us was $30 – just imagine the amount of money that could be saved if all these documents were on the cloud. anand reply nellie akalp january 15, 2014 at 12:21 pm yes – so true! thank you for reading and commenting anand! reply helene mearing january 13, 2014 at 4:10 pm excellent reminder to what is available for small business…with using cloud storage the key. thanks for your tips. reply nellie akalp january 15, 2014 at 12:21 pm thank you so much helene! glad you enjoyed the post! reply tamar january 14, 2014 at 3:41 pm great tips for small businesses. organizing your desk important especially is great to get rid of papers that just take up space and you don’t need anymore. reply nellie akalp january 15, 2014 at 12:21 pm thanks so much, tamar! appreciate the kind words. reply ebele january 15, 2014 at 8:21 am i joined dropbox couple of days ago and i am in love! why i didn’t join sooner is beyond me. my next task is email spring cleaning. i make it a rule not to have more than 500 emails, but lately it’s been creeping up. it’s now approaching 600. need to nip it in the bud. want to get it back down to 500, and eventually down to half of that. pray for me :). reply nellie akalp january 15, 2014 at 12:22 pm love it!!!! you can do it! 🙂 reply ebele january 16, 2014 at 5:00 pm got it down to 548! 500, here i come! made me realise how much ‘just in case’ emails i’m holding onto. i don’t need them – haven’t read some in months. now i’ve started spring cleaning, i can’t wait to continue. 🙂 eds r.l. january 17, 2014 at 10:45 am dropbox is like an answer to my prayers. i just love it. i can sync everything on it and i can access my dropbox account on my laptop, smartphone, etc. very straightforward and easy to use. it can really help in keeping your files organized. reply ebele january 20, 2014 at 5:13 pm been hearing about dropbox for a while, eds, before i finally downloaded it. what prompted that was my computer dying on me temporarily. i hadn’t backed things up either. once it was fixed, dropbox became my best’est friend :). reply kelly boros january 29, 2014 at 7:32 pm opting for a cloud-hosted bookkeeping solution can do multiple things to help organize your business. for example quicbooks cloud-hosted has a document management system that can help you streamline your back office and go paperless, inherent paperless billing solutions, as well as the ability to access your books from anywhere, including a tablet or phone. reply caryl anne april 11, 2014 at 5:35 pm great article! i also believe it’s best to meet with your tax adviser more than just a couple of times in the year. it can really help a business stay on track and know where they need to improve before it’s to late. thanks for sharing! reply patricia beaumont january 21, 2015 at 4:40 pm what about privacy issues using dropbox … reply livin december 18, 2015 at 10:49 am “organizing projects” i have been doing some testing now for about 10 years (actively) to find out if my business is viable and ways forward. i was looking for ways to manage projects cause i need some ideas about that. i have an idea of what i want, i’m not into the virtual storage thing either, no way! i’ve just heard to many horror stories of people getting locked out of their accounts, or no disclaimer talking about privacy and protection against plagerism. i’m ready to get my structure up and going and i liked the colorful picture of the office trays at the beginning of this article. when it comes to corporate-projects management, am looking for more data about that. thanks for sharing. best, reply elsa june 13, 2016 at 8:20 pm i need help on organizing myself to keep a couple business organized. i need recommendations on what applications to use to purge calendars, schedules, information… this information was useful but very basic. do you have any recommendations for something more in depth? reply james january 27, 2017 at 4:13 am thank you, nellie. fantastic list. as a small business owner i used to spend countless hours organizing my invoices and bills, but in the end i had bits of paper and receipts all over my desk. few months ago i started to use getmyinvices.com. this is a cloud-based document collection, storage and organization software that can save me valuable time and help to increase efficiency. all you need to do is enter account details to online portal that you use (like google, amazon, etc) and invoices will be collect automatically. it also sync with leading accounting software. reply michael december 31, 2017 at 8:39 pm thank you for your information and i will check out your site. because of years of hard physical work and arthritis from the age of 21, i am changing directions. my sister and her husband who live on the same property as me, bought a well and pump business. there is nobody else in the entire region to call except him. he’s already grossing over 30,000 a month. my sister hates the office and would rather be out in the field. she shaves absolutely everything and quickbooks is not yet set up. she doesn’t even know where to begin because she could barely keep up with what’s coming in. organizing the office so that it was comfortable and very need to something i can do. voc rehab will even pay for quickbook classes and some personal consultation if i need it. so right now any tip to help me get going and get started is a blessing. reply amy january 5, 2018 at 5:22 pm —you talked about get the right note-taking tool one key to staying organized and effective as a small business owner is having the right solution for jotting down any tasks or inspirations when they strike. whether you prefer to use pen and paper, voice recording on your smartphone or an app like evernote, the most important thing is that the solution fits into your lifestyle so you’ll use it consistently. i still have not found a method that works for me! i go out and buy all this stuff thinking this is how am going to do it— do you have sites for get the right note-taking tool? reply pingback: 10 tips for organizing your small business this... pingback: 10 tips to organize your small business this ye... pingback: 10 tips for organizing your small business this... pingback: 10 tips for organizing your small business this... pingback: let’s get organized! | on the right path pingback: how can small business owners become more organized? - bolt insurance pingback: news you can use on main street 01/31/2014 | mom and pop today pingback: organize your ecommerce business | zippycart.com pingback: how to start working from home pingback: blue collar software blog pingback: toolkit tuesday: staying connected in an online office • belle communications pingback: business action plan: getting organized for better management | cincy chic pingback: toolkit tuesday: 3 business travel apps • belle communications pingback: business broker & business advisory services – richmond & dc » five things business owners need to improve efficiency pingback: future of marketing & branding | teakettica llc pingback: skills you need as entrepreneur and how to get them - entrepreneurship life leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website report this ad subscribe follow @smallbiztrends rss linkedin pinterest itunes subscribe to our newsletter submit report this ad coronavirus biz advice coronavirus disrupting small business conference circuit view all report this ad small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit