start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising mental strength happiness advertising last updated on july 22, 2019 10 uplifting positive affirmation apps that help you re-center on the go anna johansson anna specializes in entrepreneurship, technology, and social media trends. read full profile share pin it tweet share email it’s easy to get overwhelmed with negativity in your daily life. you might read about troubling news stories, face challenges in your career that expose your weaknesses or deal with stress that makes your personal life unbearable. but just as you can cast out darkness with a light switch or a flashlight, you can cast out negativity through the power of positive affirmations. positive affirmations are phrases you say or think to yourself that reaffirm the positive things in your life. for example, if you feel like your voice was skipped over in the meeting, you might tell yourself, “i’m an intelligent, capable professional and my voice deserves to be heard.” or if you feel bad after cheating on your diet, you might tell yourself, “i’ve made a lot of progress toward building a healthier lifestyle and it’s okay to indulge occasionally.” positive affirmations work because they eliminate your thread of negative self-talk, and give you something inspiring, motivating or confidence-building to focus on.[1] if you expose yourself to these positive distractions consistently enough, you’ll walk away with higher self-confidence and a more positive attitude that can help you accomplish almost any goal. but for most of us, calling up positive phrases and images on a consistent basis isn’t easy; not only do we have to wrestle with the negative thoughts and experiences that surround us, we also have to make time to re-center our thoughts. that’s why these 10 uplifting apps exist. each of them has the power to make you feel good about yourself no matter where you are or what you’re doing. give these apps a try if you want to include more positive affirmations in your daily life: 1. thinkup first, there’s thinkup, recognized as the best motivation app of 2017 by healthline. once you download the app, you’ll be able to start recording your own positive affirmations in your own voice. if you’re feeling confident and good about your place in life, you can come up with some positive statements about yourself and record them for posterity. if you’re feeling less creative or don’t know what to say, don’t worry—the app also has a list of generic positive statements that you can peruse and choose from. once you have a selection of recorded phrases, you can start listening to them however you’d like; for example, you can have them randomly mixed into the music you’re listening to, or set a schedule so you hear your affirmations at regular intervals. advertising make it a point to record a handful of new affirmations every day, so you’re always hearing something new. the app is available for ios and android devices. it’s completely free. 2. kwippy positivity can come in many forms. in many cases, affirmations that come from other people can be more powerful than ones you utter to yourself. that’s where kwippy comes in. kwippy is a new kind of social media platform that will send you random challenges throughout the day, prompting you to take a photo of something in your nearby environment. for example, a challenge could be “take a selfie with the nearest living thing.” users can view photo submissions from every other user (as all kwippy users receive the same challenges at the same exact time), and are given a chance to vote on the photos they think best capture the theme (or the ones that are the most entertaining). you can also comment on other images. if you’re having a bad day, the prompts can be your chance to re-center yourself and be mindful of the present moment, and the affirmations from other people when they see your contribution can be exactly the motivation you need to keep going. the app has a positive, lively community focused on fun, while keeping negativity out. kwippy is entirely free to use and you can find it on the ios app store and google play. 3. shine shine is a text messaging service based on the idea that sometimes, you need some external phrases to guide your internal positive thinking. visit the website, and you’ll have the ability to sign up to receive a daily text message—all you need to provide is a first name and a phone number. then, monday through friday, you’ll receive one message per day with inspirational quotes from successful people, links to research-backed articles you can use as motivation, and tips on actions you can take to feel more positive in your daily life. according to their site, 93 percent of people who use shine texts feel more confident and have seen a significant improvement in their daily happiness. advertising on top of that, you can get a referral code you can use to invite friends to the platform. if you refer 10 friends, you can get free shine swag. there’s also an app available for ios devices where you can listen to “mindful moments”—meditations for your world. 4. smiling mind smiling mind is a nonprofit organization that’s attempting to make the positive experience of mindfulness meditation available for everybody. because the organization was founded by and is currently operated by psychologists and educators, everything they do is backed by scientific evidence, so you can make sure your new habits and affirmations are guiding you in the right direction. in the app, you’ll find a selection of different guided meditation options, which can help you eliminate your negative thoughts and focus on the positivity of the present moments. there are different programs for different age groups including children as young as 7 years old to adults, and programs for specific applications, such as meditation for sports, education, and the workplace. you can also track your progress since the app records how long your sessions are and when you’ve participated in those sessions. the app is free to use but you can make a donation if you want to continue supporting their efforts. the app is available for apple and android devices. 5. louise hay affirmation meditations. louise hay has been a leading mind in the world of positive philosophy, and published multiple bestselling books throughout the 70s and 80s before launching an app in the modern era. hay passed away in 2017, but her hundreds of positive affirmations continue to live. hay’s philosophy that positive affirmations have the potential to physically heal the body may or may not be something you agree with, but there’s no doubt that these short phrases can help you turn around an especially stressful day, or break a cycle of negative thoughts from interfering with your mental health. with the app, which is available on the app store and google play, you can listen to some of hay’s most powerful affirmations whenever you need a boost. you’ll also find meditation exercises, guided with animations, to help you relieve stress and reset your mind when it gets to a negative place. 6. bmindful advertising bmindful doesn’t have the beautiful interface that many of the apps on this list do, and it exists only as a web app. but while it lacks in design or mobile functionality, it makes up for with an enormous and ever-growing list of affirmations you can use to introduce more positivity into your life. when you sign up for free, you’ll have the ability to build a list of your own personal affirmations, curated from massive topic-based lists written by the community. categories include things like health, love, life, wealth, money, relationships, abundance, confidence, success, work, strength and creativity. you can organize them how you see fit, and write your own affirmations—either for your private use or to share with other community members. soon, you’ll have a list of hundreds of affirmations that make sense to you, and specifically, you can turn to that list whenever you need a break from your negative thoughts. 7. instar affirmation writer instar affirmation writer is an app for people who want to take charge of writing and managing their own affirmations, rather than relying on those written by other people. within the app, you’ll have the ability to schedule alerts and reminders for yourself, so you write new positive affirmations on a regular basis and the app will notify you when it detects key criteria being met in your response, including a focus on the present moment and an overall “positive” emotion. you can record your own voice reading these affirmations, and improve the affirmations you write with ongoing tips. on top of that, you can categorize all your affirmations and pay attention to how often you affirm by monitoring your writing patterns. the app is available on the app store. 8. grateful gratitude journals are a popular way to practice positive affirmations since they force you to slow down and focus on the positive things that are already in your life. then, once recorded, you can go back and look at positive experiences in the past for inspiration. now, you can use an app to make the process of gratitude journaling easier and more enjoyable—not to mention more consistent. grateful is an app that gives you daily prompts; every day, you’ll be met with a question like “what made you smile today” or “why was today a good day?” answering with even a single word can be a positive affirmation in its own right but the app allows you to write as much as you want or even include a photo. grateful makes it easy for you to browse through your past responses to prompts so you always have something positive to see. right now, the app is only available on the app store. it’s free to start using but you’ll need to pay for advanced features in-app. advertising 9. calm calm is technically more of a meditation app than a positive affirmation app but it’s designed for the same purpose; to help stop your bouts of negative self-talk and replace them with a positive experience. the main function here is a wide selection of different types of guided meditation sessions, which focus on different goals. for example, there’s a guided meditation for relieving anxiety and one to support loving kindness. there are also deep breathing exercises that are perfect for encouraging relaxation. when using the app directly, you can set a specific time for the meditation to last and you can use a “motivation calendar” to give yourself prompts to be more mindful, or start a meditation session at regular intervals. calm also has paid features, which include multi-day programs that help you manage stress and improve your sleep. it was named the apple app of the year in 2017, and is available on the app store and google play. 10. happify no matter what your goals are for establishing more positivity and better emotional wellbeing in your life, happify has something that can help you. in their own words, “happify is the single destination for effective, evidence-based solutions for better emotional health and wellbeing in the 21st century.” the main perk here is that the app helps you measure your subjective feelings of happiness over the course of weeks and months, so you can see the patterns in your emotions and (hopefully) notice a pattern of improvement. while using the app, you’ll find tools designed to break up negative thoughts, reduce your stress, and build confidence, including positive affirmations and activities meant to help you relax. you’ll even find guided meditation sessions, helping you make the most of the present moment, wherever you are. happify is available on the app store and google play, or you can use the web version. it’s free to use the basic features, but the advanced options and statistics will cost you $11.99 a month. practice affirmation consistently using at least one of these apps on a daily basis can help you fight the negativity in your life, feel more confident, and develop the resilience you need to overcome life’s toughest challenges. the more consistently you practice affirmation, the easier it’s going to become. soon, you won’t have to rely on apps alone to break the cycle of negative self-talk; you’ll simply be a more positive person! more about positivity 10 simple ways to make positive thinking your habit 10 positive affirmations for success that will change your life how the power of positive thinking can change your life 10 negative thoughts we all have and what we should think instead featured photo credit: pexels via pexels.com reference [1] ^ psych central: challenging negative self-talk share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to practice positive thinking and change your life 10 positive affirmations for success that will change your life the power of positive affirmations advertising advertising more by this author anna johansson anna specializes in entrepreneurship, technology, and social media trends. 20 best mac apps for productivity you need in 2020 10 uplifting positive affirmation apps that help you re-center on the go 15 ways you are wasting time during the day (and how to stop) when you have these recipes, you no longer need to suppress your appetite for dessert. 4 natural ways to soothe your itchy skin advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author anna johansson anna specializes in entrepreneurship, technology, and social media trends. 20 best mac apps for productivity you need in 2020 10 uplifting positive affirmation apps that help you re-center on the go 15 ways you are wasting time during the day (and how to stop) when you have these recipes, you no longer need to suppress your appetite for dessert. 4 natural ways to soothe your itchy skin trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next 7 positive affirmations to tell yourself every day the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.