start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising work smartcut advertising last updated on january 6, 2020 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement read full profile share pin it tweet share email behind the corporate veil, the actual members who work towards achieving the company goals are the ultimate assets. it is very important for every team member to maintain focused goals on a professional front, at their individual level and at the organizational level. with even the slightest discord between two employees, the entire team might suffer and have to adjust with the downsize in organizational success that they realize ultimately. as humans, each and every employee is bound to have different opinion and feel inclined to meet their personal goals, just as much as they meet the goals of their company. hence, it is essential that work relationships among different employees are friendly and cordial. this will help the fellow team members to work together as an efficient team. the ultimate outcome of which will be a capable work force, poised to gather the gains of organizational success. let us take a look at some of the ways to build positive and effective work relationships, and help employees work together as a team: 1. respect your peer’s time no matter which specific domain you work in or in which your organization deals in, each arena entails performance of various jobs by the employees. within this organization, there are a set of cumulative jobs which ought to be performed at a specific pace, and within a set period of time. sometimes, there might also be a sequence to the performance of actions and processes, so that the next process in the sequence can be performed. some procedures are dependent upon the performance of an action by a certain member of the team, so that the other members can carry out the subsequent steps in the sequence. the ultimate target with this planning is that the work must be completed on time and there should be no delay in meeting the deadlines which have been set for the purpose. thus, in situations where you are placed in a role where other people are affected by your actions or performance, it is essential that you respect their time and effort, and ensure that the ball is not pent up in your court. at the same time, remember that you should make yourself available for other people, should they require your help. ultimately, your aim must be focused at ensuring that work is not pending and you get it done like experts doing the work. advertising 2. ensure that you are cautious with social media with the ongoing trend in the digital space, it is easy to feel compelled and drawn towards the idea of connecting with your peers and colleagues on the social media. although there is not much harm in the practice, it is essential to observe caution while making these connections. the simple reason behind this is that one wrong move can dampen your reputation or else, cause your peers to gather an incorrect impression about you. it makes sense to ensure what the social media policy of your organization is before treading on this path. if such policies restrict the association of fellow employees, then you must respect them. 3. keep communication transparent communication is essentially one of the most vital keys which impact how your relationships with peers and other employees are. the role of effective communication cannot be stressed enough. it is vital in attaining the goals of working together in an organization and carrying out the jobs which will help in attaining success. however, there is a very big danger with communication. as part of the human nature, it is easy to assume that the person ahead of us has understood what we intend to say. this might not be true at all times. therefore, taking feedback is important. this will help you understand if your message has been understood in the intended manner. if the message has not reached the intended party as expected, corrective actions can be taken at the same time. poor communication has the disadvantage of adding stress and distrust among fellow employees. it can sometimes causes crucial message failed to be delivered, leading to organizational turbulence, after which the blame game is hard to end. in order to avoid the confusion and misunderstanding, communicate through a formal chain of command and follow formal mode of communication. thus, communicating through mails or any other formal channel of communication would be the appropriate way to communicate in order to keep everything on record. this will help in referring to the communications later, should any dispute arise. advertising 4. give constructive feedback as important as it is to take feedback from other people, it is also important to give your feedback. it is not just you who needs feedback but also your peers, in order to understand how well they are performing. your feedback will help other people progress in their work as much as it will help you progress in yours. giving constructive feedback to your fellow peers at the right time and in the right state will help them advance, and ultimately lead to the success of the organization. your co-workers are bound to value your opinion and regard you in a positive light, if you provide them with the feedback that you require from them. 5. make use of common day courtesies greeting a co-worker may sound like something so ordinary that you might wonder how it ended up on this list. however, as long as we are talking about ways to build a positive work environment, this one cannot be ignored. you maybe surprised by bidding your co-workers simple common day courtesies! being humble never hurt anyone, even if you do not exactly receive something in return. moreover, you must maintain eye contact with your fellow peers if you wish to gain their trust. this will provide the necessary infrastructure to build a capable team. 6. get into the habit of helping yourself while at work, accept that you are never going to receive the pampered behaviour which you do at home. no one at your workplace wakes up in the morning and makes themselves available at the to hear you rant or constantly answer your questions. however, you might come up with situations nevertheless, which require you to ask for help or advice. in this scenario, try to gather some information about your question, say, from the manuals which you receive upon joining, or from the web and equip yourself with some concrete information about the question which you may be ready to ask from someone else. advertising at least when you approach someone with your doubts, along with the information gathered you’ve gathered, they will appreciate you for having made the effort to find out the answer. this will make them feel important as well, answering your questions and helping you achieve your goals or tasks. 7. treat everyone as equals as a member of your team, it is not your job to point out who is better and who is not. organizational politics can be a deadly game to play and as long as you are not a pro player, it is always risky to put yourself in a situation that will tarnish your image. gossiping is a strict no and spreading rumours is something you must avoid at all costs. behave in a humble manner and even if someone tries to pull you into a conversation, avoid it in a respectful manner. do everything you can to pull yourself out of that situation. while talking behind people’s backs may sound like a refreshing fun activity initially, it will definitely come to bite you behind the back in the future. also, it will be wise to remember that no one in the organization is permanent. people change and so can their designation. it will be better for you to keep your personal views about someone in your head. as long as you maintain the idea of treating everyone as equal, you will find yourself amidst a positive working environment at all times. 8. acknowledge your mistakes mistakes happen and one of the more noteworthy facts about mistakes is that they can be made by anyone. the wisest thing you can do is to admit mistakes you’ve made. advertising playing the blame game will not only tarnish the name of your peers but also your own. it is always good to avoid getting into a tiff with others. admit your mistakes and think of remedies or solutions to fix it. for a positive working relationship with your peers, you will need to adopt this quality. 9. learn to take on responsibilities passing on your work load might be required when you are overburdened with work. however, when entrusted with a job, you should try to accept it as your responsibility and avoid putting it off to someone else. putting off work all the time will only end up creating a block between you and your peers, while they may start avoiding communicating with you at all. when you work in a team, your duty is to cooperate and build a positive working relationship with your teammates. 10. engage in a follow-up routine as a part of a team, it is necessary to express the fact that you care about your team members and you are also poised to achieve the targets set by your team. whenever you get the chance, do not hold back from asking your co-workers about your work performance and whether they think there’s anything you should improve. be prepared to be available to change and improve. this will go a long way in presenting yourself as a responsible and willing to learn employee. the bottom line these are just some of the ways in which fellow team members can build positive work relationships among themselves and work towards taking the organization to new heights. this attitude is best to achieve overall success for the organization and create an environment of trust and honesty among the employees. more about relationships at work 7 ways to ensure effective communication at work how to work with different communication styles in the office how to improve communication skills for workplace success featured photo credit: mimi thian via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 7 ways to ensure effective communication at work how to work with different communication styles in the office how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) advertising advertising more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated why you need to set future goals (and how to reach them) advertising advertising work smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) brian lee chief of product management at lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email taking your work to the next level means setting and keeping career goals. a career goal is a targeted objective that explains what you want your ultimate profession to be. defining career goals is a critical step to achieving success. you need to know where you’re going in order to get there. knowing what your career goals are isn’t just important for you–it’s important for potential employers too. the relationship between an employer and an employee works best when your goals for the future and their goals align. saying, “oh, i don’t know. i’ll do anything,” makes you seem indecisive, and opens you up to taking on ill-fitting tasks that won’t lead you to your dream life. career goal templates’ one-size-fits-all approach won’t consider your unique goals and experiences. they won’t help you stand out, and they may not reflect your full potential. in this article, i’ll help you to define your career goals with smart goal framework, and will provide you with a list of examples goals for work and career. table of contents how to define your career goal with smart why you need an individual development plan 40 examples of goals for work & career for changing a job for switching career path for getting a promotion for acing a job interview career goal setting faqs summary more tips about setting work goals how to define your career goal with smart instead of relying on a generalized framework to explain your vision, use a tried-and-true goal-setting model. smart is an acronym for “specific, measurable, action-oriented, realistic with timelines.”[1] the smart framework demystifies goals by breaking them into smaller steps. helpful hints when setting smart career goals: advertising start with short-term goals first. work on your short-term goals, and then progress the long-term interests.[2] short-term goals are those things which take 1-3 years to complete. long-term goals take 3-5 years to do. as you succeed in your short-term goals, that success should feed into accomplishing your long-term goals. be specific, but don’t overdo it. you need to define your career goals, but if you make them too specific, then they become unattainable. instead of saying, “i want to be the next ceo of apple, where i’ll create a billion-dollar product,” try something like, “my goal is to be the ceo of a successful company.” get clear on how you’re going to reach your goals. you should be able to explain the actions you’ll take to advance your career. if you can’t explain the steps, then you need to break your goal down into more manageable chunks. don’t be self-centered. your work should not only help you advance, but it should also support the goals of your employer. if your goals differ too much, then it might be a sign that the job you’ve taken isn’t a good fit. if you want to learn more about setting smart goals, watch the video below to learn how you can set smart career goals. after you’re clear on how to set smart goals, you can use this framework to tackle other aspects of your work. for instance, you might set smart goals to improve your performance review, look for a new job, or shift your focus to a different career. we’ll cover examples of ways to use smart goals to meet short-term career goals in the next section. why you need an individual development plan setting goals is one part of the larger formula for success. you may know what you want to do, but you also have to figure out what skills you have, what you lack, and where your greatest strengths and weaknesses are. one of the best ways to understand your capabilities is by using the science careers individual development plan skills assessment. it’s free, and all you need to do is register an account and take a few assessments. advertising these assessments will help you determine if your career goals are realistic. you’ll come away with a better understanding of your unique talents and skill-sets. you may decide to change some of your career goals or alter your timeline based on what you learn. 40 examples of goals for work & career all this talk of goal-setting and self-assessment may sound great in theory, but perhaps you need some inspiration to figure out what your goals should be. for changing a job attend more networking events and make new contacts. achieve a promotion to __________ position. get a raise. plan and take a vacation this year. agree to take on new responsibilities. develop meaningful relationships with your coworkers and clients. ask for feedback on a regular basis. learn how to say, “no,” when you are asked to take on too much. delegate tasks that you no longer need to be responsible for. strive to be in a leadership role in __ number of years. for switching career path pick up and learn a new skill. find a mentor. become a volunteer in the field that interests you. commit to getting training or going back to school. read the most recent books related to your field. decide whether you are happy with your work-life balance and make changes if necessary. [3] plan what steps you need to take to change careers.[4] compile a list of people who could be character references or submit recommendations. commit to making __ number of new contacts in the field this year. create a financial plan. for getting a promotion reduce business expenses by a certain percentage. stop micromanaging your team members. become a mentor. brainstorm ways that you could improve your productivity and efficiency at work seek a new training opportunity to address a weakness.[5] find a way to organize your work space.[6] seek feedback from a boss or trusted coworker every week/ month/ quarter. become a better communicator. find new ways to be a team player. learn how to reduce work hours without compromising productivity. for acing a job interview identify personal boundaries at work and know what you should do to make your day more productive and manageable. identify steps to create a professional image for yourself. go after the career of your dreams to find work that does not feel like a job. look for a place to pursue your interest and apply your knowledge and skills. find a new way to collaborate with experts in your field. identify opportunities to observe others working in the career you want. become more creative and break out of your comfort zone. ask to be trained more relevant skills for your work. ask for opportunities to explore the field and widen your horizon set your eye on a specific award at work and go for it. career goal setting faqs i’m sure you still have some questions about setting your own career goals, so here i’m listing out the most commonly asked questions about career goals. 1. what if i’m not sure what i want my career to be? if you’re uncertain, be honest about it. let the employer know as much as you know about what you want to do. express your willingness to use your strengths to contribute to the company. when you take this approach, back up your claim with some examples. if you’re not even sure where to begin with your career, check out this guide: how to find your ideal career path without wasting time on jobs not suitable for you advertising 2. is it okay to lie about my career goals? lying to potential employers is bound to end in disaster. in the interview, a lie can make you look foolish because you won’t know how to answer follow up questions. even if you think your career goal may not precisely align with the employer’s expectations for a long-term hire, be open and honest. there’s probably more common ground than they realize, and it’s up to you to bridge any gaps in expectations. being honest and explaining these connections shows your employer that you’ve put a lot of thought into this application. you aren’t just telling them what they want to hear. 3. is it better to have an ambitious goal, or should i play it safe? you should have a goal that challenges you, but smart goals are always reasonable. if you put forth a goal that is way beyond your capabilities, you will seem naive. making your goals too easy shows a lack of motivation. employers want new hires who are able to self-reflect and are willing to take on challenges. 4. can i have several career goals? it’s best to have one clearly-defined career goal and stick with it. (of course, you can still have goals in other areas of your life.) having a single career goal shows that you’re capable of focusing, and it shows that you like to accomplish what you set out to do. advertising on the other hand, you might have multiple related career goals. this could mean that you have short-term goals that dovetail into your ultimate long-term career goal. you might also have several smaller goals that feed into a single purpose. for example, if you want to become a lawyer, you might become a paralegal and attend law school at the same time. if you want to be a school administrator, you might have initial goals of being a classroom teacher and studying education policy. in both cases, these temporary jobs and the extra education help you reach your ultimate goal. summary you’ll have to devote some time to setting career goals, but you’ll be so much more successful with some direction. remember to: set smart goals. smart goals are specific, measurable, action-oriented, and realistic with timelines. when you set goals with these things in mind, you are likely to achieve the outcomes you want. have short-term and long-term goals. short-term career goals can be completed in 1-3 years, while long-term goals will take 3-5 years to finish. your short-term goals should set you up to accomplish your long-term goals. assess your capabilities by coming up with an individual development plan. knowing how to set goals won’t help you if you don’t know yourself. understand what your strengths and weaknesses are by taking some self-assessments. choose goals that are appropriate to your ultimate aims. your career goals should be relevant to one another. if they aren’t, then you may need to narrow your focus. your goals should match the type of job that you want and the quality of life that you want to lead. be clear about your goals with potential employers. always be honest with potential employers about what you want to do with your life. if your goals differ from the company’s objectives, find a way bridge the gap between what you want for yourself and what your employer expects. by doing goal-setting work now, you’ll be able to make conscious choices on your career path. you can always adjust your plan if things change for you, but the key is to give yourself a road map for success. more tips about setting work goals 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 15 personal goals for work to make you stand out from your coworkers how to create an action plan and achieve your personal goals featured photo credit: tyler franta via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ achievit: the history and evolution of smart goals [2] ^ she knows: career planning: smart goals [3] ^ career addict: 13 examples of achievable career goals [4] ^ job interview site.com: career goals: examples of career goals and objectives [5] ^ science: goal-setting strategies for scientific and career success [6] ^ udemy: career goal examples: top 6 achievable career goals share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 15 personal goals for work to help you succeed how to create an action plan and achieve your personal goals how to find your ideal career path without wasting time on jobs not suitable for you advertising advertising more by this author brian lee chief of product management at lifehack how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) how to answer behavioral based interview questions smartly 7 best project management apps to boost productivity 100 incredible life hacks that make life so much easier 10 best new products that people don’t know about advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.