skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 10+ best knowledge base, wiki, faq & support ticket wordpress themes and plugins – 2020 10+ best knowledge base, wiki, faq & support ticket wordpress themes and plugins – 2020 january 3, 2020 aigars theme collections 34 comments businesses and organizations usually set up a knowledge base, wiki, or faq site to keep their target audience informed about their product, company or industry. this type of website allows website owners to make commonly asked questions accessible. nonetheless, knowledge base, wiki, or faq type of website often have distinct needs compared to other kinds of website considering that it provides a unique function for website visitors. if you want to build a useful knowledge base, wiki, or faq site for your business or just want to design a website that allows users to ask and answer questions, then you have to mull over on this collection of wordpress themes. these themes certainly offer lots of amazing features for creating knowledge base, wiki, and faq websites. uncode uncode is a wonderfully reliable and extremely polished, professional and competent, intuitive and highly responsive wordpress creative multi-use website theme. this theme has been developed as a solution to a myriad different website design and construction usage cases and needs profiles, covering a broad set of industries and applications, with a penchant for tasks and deployments that require a decisively creative implementation and significative visual freedom without compromising the functionality and resourcefulness of the overall end user experience. that makes uncode a fantastic solution for knowledge base website webmasters and developers that need a sleek and highly customizable theme to make their own for their knowledge base website projects. thoroughly compatible out of the box with all the major knowledge base management plugins in the market, uncode comes attractively predesigned with dozens of impressive demo websites and many more template pages for specific and generalized purposes, quickly adaptable to your branding and graphical requirements vía the visual composer, revolution slider and isotope grid plugins, among several others. with woocommerce integration from the get go, marketing your knowledge base related services and packages is now easier than ever before. uncode takes the website building experience and streamlines it to downright pleasure! try uncode today! more info / download demo manual if your goal is to construct a top-quality support or wiki page, manual is an ideal choice. it has incorporated a large number of niche-specific features, each promising to enhance the quality of your page. wiki or support pages are effective, when they can reach a large audience. manual can be translated into multiple languages, due to the inclusion of .mo and .po files. informative and interesting forums can be constructed, as this product is bbpress-compatible. there are different header layout versions, and also two layouts for your page footer. the website owner may grant visitors the ability to rate posts or articles, with a like or dislike. of course, readers can easily share your content on social media networks. unlike other multi-purpose themes, manual focuses on one job. this high degree of specialization assures users that their websites will live up to the highest of standards. in addition, a good wiki page can actually reduce the workload of your customer support team. clients will find it easier to navigate issues if they have access to a source of valid information, thus reducing the number of support tickets. the layout of this template is completely responsive, capable of showcasing content on desktop pcs, laptops, and mobile devices. more info / download demo knowledge base – a wordpress wiki theme this wiki type knowledge base wordpress theme is an excellent solution for providing support to your customers. knowledge base wiki type theme allows you to add your own support forums because it is powered by bbpress forums plugin. moreover, this theme is built with bootstrap front-end framework and fits impeccably on big screens as well as on small screen of different mobile devices. it has a fantastic ajax based live search that helps you attend to your consumer’s inquiries. this theme has a tidy code and built with seo in mind. indeed, this theme is designed to create an advanced knowledge base website for your target consumers. this is also the most popular knowledge base style theme and is used by hundreds of websites. more info / download demo infocenter infocenter is a wordpress theme of a knowledge base solution center inclination. it bases its design in providing the tools required for all curious or professionals. it brings together all the support tactics usually found on other themes into one big space to ponder. infocenter uses faq sections, forums, and login accounts. you will also find an integrated community that can help each other along the way. get chats, rankings to vote for best answers and help desk. infocenter is modern, sober and technological in concept. it provides more than 10 customized widgets including top authors, popular questions and sign up. you will get a very strong panel with lots of useful documentation to get started. seo optimization, jquery enhancement and a valid code based on seo are also found. infocenter uses community valorization techniques such as minimum points to participate. it comes with pre-built layouts and a compatible child theme. you will also get a page ready for translation and adaptable to all devices screens. this is a versatile, simple, and quick to set up theme meant for help and integration. whichever doubts you may have, use their support system! get people the help they need with infocenter! more info / download demo kbase kbase is a wordpress theme specialized in helpdesk and support for everyone. it comes with 7 homepages and demos of one-click install feature. it is the perfect tool for businesses that struggle to help their clients with tech issues. kbase is responsive and customized with many pre-built short codes. you will get a great page builder like visual composer and will not need to program at all! furthermore, kbase provides blogs and portfolio layouts with customizable skin colors too. boxed and full-width modes are both featured. kbase is modern, clean customizable on footers and banners. you will get compatibility for wpml to translate texts and woocommerce for selling. use bbpress and buddypress integration to create forums and discussion pages. moreover, kbase uses awesome ajax for search and includes animation features. as expected, their own support service for you to build the page, is amazing. additionally, it uses how-to videos and tutorials for all elements. kbase pretends to surpass everyone in custom support service with relatable platforms. it is adaptable to all screens and browsers on the market! this widget ready theme has come to shake everybody’s perspective on what support means. are you going to miss it? get kbase now! more info / download demo wikb for a modern, attractive and resourceful knowledge base and help desk wordpress theme, wikb is one fine solution. keep in mind, wikb is actually an ideal tool that you can use as an envato author. it will be a breeze linking together your account with your site and offer all the existing and soon-to-be users all the needed information. there are loads of convenient features and components that will help you realize the right online presence in close to no time. speaking of features, wikb comes with pricing tables, superb knowledge base system, testimonials, contact form and multiple headers. there are also mt framework plugin, wpbakery page builder, bbpress and custom services page. you do not need to invest a ton of time and energy in bringing into fruition a knowledge base website – with wikb, anyone can do it quickly. more info / download demo lipi if you are building a support desk for your business, you better consider using lipi. it is a wordpress theme that comes with multiple niche demos for a quick start. for instance, you will find samples for apps, universities, hospitals, online services, web hosting and product support desks. with the one click demo data import, you can put any of the demos to use right away. while all the layouts easily cater to many different needs and intentions out of the box, you can also improve them with the process of dragging and dropping. other amenities include slider revolution, search engine optimization, child theme support, fast loading speed and rtl compatibility. lipi works on handheld and desktop devices, too, as well as instantly acclimatizes to all browsers. now you know where to start with the creation of a support desk – with lipi! more info / download demo knowledge base plugin heroic knowledge base plugin heroic knowledge base plugin is a powerful plugin for knowledge base website. this plugin works with most premium and free wordpress themes and it’s a great options if you don’t want to install a separate wordpress installation just for knowledge base. it comes with a demo content that makes the installation process really smooth and fast. content organization is very easy with its drag & drop category ordering. it comes with a smart admin panel that lets you easily configure and change the options with just few clicks. it also comes with an article feedback system that enable website visitors rate your articles. therefore, you can gauge the impact and efficiency of your content in assisting your customers and finding out which articles needs revisions or improvement. moreover, this plugin allows you to give your readers or customers instant answers with the built-in ajax live search feature. with heroic knowledge base plugin, you can provide visitors with downloadable files in your articles. additionally, this plugin includes three highly configurable widgets for displaying knowledge base articles, categories and authors. furthermore, heroic knowledge base plugin is created using the latest coding standards, written with theme compatibility and flexibility in mind. this tool also allows you help your customers support themselves by giving them resources to help theme quickly and accurately solve their issues. this plugin is great for those looking to make a knowledge base alongside their existing website without need to switch to a new theme. more detailed review for heroic knowledge base plugin is available here. more info / download demo atlas if you would like to create an online knowledge base, you can make it happen with atlas. this handy wordpress plugin has all the necessities for building a self-serve solution that you can launch in little to no time. among many features and functions, you also get two different templates, startup and intercom style. both web designs are very appealing to the eye and clean, quickly altering to all sorts of different aims and intentions. when creating an online hub with all the information about a product or a service, just use atlas and have it live in a snap. of course, atlas creates a mobile-ready outcome that anyone can skim through regardless of the device they use. it is also compatible with gutenberg block builder and includes a convenient search function. for a knowledge base, atlas is one excellent plugin to take to your benefit. more info / download demo knowledge base themes flatbase flatbase is a well made and the ultimate solution in creating your own support platform. thanks to its support for bbpress integration, this is a great wordpress theme to offer exclusive support and an interactive platform for your customers. its tidy and detail-oriented design provides a wonderful structure to present support articles, informing and teaching users how to master your product. you can also set up a faq page in your website to provide information on commonly asked questions about your company or product. it has a built-in ajax based live search feature, which allows you to give prompt response to your customer’s queries. you can also create a unique design for your website because this theme is customizable. in addition, flatbase looks great on any device because it fully responsive, not to mention that it is also retina ready. this theme is a fine blend of knowledge base, faqs, forums and a lot more nice functionalities. with flatbase wordpress theme, you can now build a support website right away. more info / download demo knowall knowall is a cleverly designed, fast loading, user friendly and readily responsive wordpress knowledge base theme. it’s a competent and capable knowledge base website theme that has been packed with all the right elements in order to empower you to effortlessly and quickly set up complex yet intuitively structured knowledge base websites for absolutely any purpose. disseminating knowledge to a massive, online based audience has never been easier or faster than now, thanks to knowall. with advanced, cutting edge capabilities, including engaging features such as instant answers, which pop down to answer your users’ queries directly from the search box as they type, as well as predesigned, fully functional content templates like article ordering and category ordering options to customize the presentation of your articles, a ton of handy widgets and superbly convenient shortcodes, and the broadest and most insightful, powerful set of analytical tools, charts, features and raw data required to run a successful operation in a meaningful way, knowall is the future. live it today! more info / download demo tikidocs if you are starting your own knowledge base, wiki inspired website, you better check out tikidocs. it is a dedicated wordpress theme that creates a fantastic atmosphere where people will like to hang out. with a modern web design, tikidocs sports, you will quickly grab their attention and have them intrigued to learn more about your web platform. tikidocs has plenty of exclusive sections that will cover all the ideas you have for starting your own thing on the web today. you know what the best part of the whole game is? you will not need to touch a single string of code and still get the opportunity to build the desired website. live search, bbpress forum, revolution slider and advanced theme panel, these are just some of the assets you get once becoming tikidocs’ user. more info / download demo discy discy is a spectacular questions and answers wordpress theme that offers you to create a powerful and practical online space where people will find all they need to know. with discy, you can create a niche or generic q&a websites or even use it as an extension to your existing and super successful business website. in short, the options you have with discy are very many so make sure you use it to its full potential. new and trending questions, polls, users, badges, blog, upvoting answers and view counters, these are just some of the assets of discy. this theme also fully supports rtl languages, mobile devices, modern web browsers and retina screens. discy is an all-in-one solution that provides the needed components and elements for a q&a website which could become the next big thing. more info / download demo knowhow knowhow is a well-liked wordpress theme for building a knowledge base or wiki-like website because of its responsiveness and other cool features. this theme helps you create an interactive knowledge base website with ease. knowhow has all the elements that you will need in providing an online support resource for your users. furthermore, it includes an ajax-powered live search form to help you provide real-time response to your consumer’s inquiries. it also offers an exceptional support for faq pages. moreover, knowhow includes a built-in color picker, useful shortcodes and other functional features suitable for a wordpress knowledge base/wiki theme. knowhow is the perfect choice for a professional looking theme for your knowledge base website. more info / download demo knowledge base (knowledgepress) | wiki | faq wordpress theme knowledge base is a brilliant choice for building wiki type and informational websites. it has a clean design and feature-rich theme that facilitates easy customization. its excellent features help you create an informational website specifically designed for your target consumers without dealing with technical difficulties. it is fully responsive and integrated with bootstrap (read more about this framework), html5 & css3 technologies. supplementary features include ajax based live search, ability to attach support forums using bbpress plugin, faqs template with live search box post type support, etc. furthermore, this theme emanates a stronger character and style than the knowhow theme, which makes it very ideal for showcasing the playful and ingenious side of your company. more info / download demo techsmart techsmart is a practical and modern helpdesk and knowledge base wordpress theme. out of the box, techsmart delivers quite a bunch of different demo layouts which will save you time and energy. on top of that, with techsmart, you will never need to start the creation of a web platform from scratch. not only that, but you will not need to pay a coder to help you make a page either. with techsmart, you can do it all yourself regardless of the past experience. even if you have never in your life built a page, you can still get things done with techsmart. the process is very newbie friendly if you will. techsmart is compatible with gutenberg, bbpress, wpml and search engines, web browsers and mobile devices. you can choose between seven preset headers, pick from over ten custom-made widgets and create any color scheme you want. more info / download demo doxy doxy is a magnificent knowledge base, support forum and online documentation wordpress theme. with the five available homepage demos, you will have a breeze crafting the desired page for your services. in addition to that, you can always fine-tune and alter doxy so it caters to your needs and wants to the very last detail. bear in mind, with the clean and minimal web design, doxy has no problem accommodating to different projects out of the box. thanks to the integration of the elementor page builder, making tweaks and editing doxy’s default settings happens with zero coding. doxy also includes forum and support ticket form so you don’t need to create anything yourself. other features include print-ready docs, changelog page, online documentation, subscription form and professional support. start your project on the web like a champ with doxy. more info / download demo tessera to create a knowledge base and support forum website, all you need is a simple to use, professional and mobile-ready wordpress theme, tessera. once you study the web design further, you will only truly understand the power of this killer tool. in short, tessera has it all and everything in the kit, ready and set for beginners and advanced users to take to their benefit. from pre-defined layouts to numerous elements and components, you will not need to seek additional features once you gain access to tessera. what’s more, tessera is put together with the all-around elementor drag and drop page builder. it offers everyone to get creative even if they lack code and design skills. you don’t need any prior experience when working with tessera anyway. constructing the complete support center will be a small breeze. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. bootstrapfaqflat design themesknowledge basewiki share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts 23 best coaching wordpress themes for coaching & mentoring 2020 are you a coach or web designer looking for the best coaching wordpress theme? we… 10 best business elementor wordpress themes 2019 simplicity is not always a bad thing. even though people become pickier day by day… premium filter and search form wordpress themes to get more website bookings 2019 even the number of users who use the site search tool is near 30 percent,… 31 mobile friendly wordpress food blog themes for foodies, chefs & food photographers 2020 looking to start a food blog to share your recipes? these food blog wordpress themes… 20+ best portfolio wordpress bootstrap themes 2020 we suggest you reconsider your website design before the actual start of a business season,… 34 stunning parallax scrolling wordpress themes for agencies, designers, apps and portfolio 2020 a handpicked list of the best wordpress parallax themes designed and developed in 2020. these… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 20 best handyman wordpress themes for handyman services & home repair 2020 next post: 14 best makeup artist wordpress themes for makeup artistry business 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×