home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum features pj gold 100 questions with sky ferreira march 21, 2014 michael cragg four years, about five aborted albums and quite a few money-earning fashion campaigns later, sky ferreira's debut album 'night time, my time' is finally out to buy in the uk. to celebrate the happy day we never thought would come, we asked sky 100 questions and demanded 100 answers. this is how it went. where’s the strangest place you’ve ever put your hand? where's the strangest place i've ever put my hand? (laughs) well i touched a human brain once in fourth grade. i was learning about the brain and had to dissect it. i also had to dissect a mouse brain or something, or a pigeon brain, or something really small anyway. the title of your autobiography would be… it would be probably be untitled because i can't ever come up with titles. is it time for people to stop wearing stripes? yeah. i mean, i'm a big fan of stripes though. have you ever seen a ghost? yes. ellen or oprah? oprah. did you go anywhere nice on your holidays? no, not really. holiday is at home really. what is your favourite chocolate bar? i'm not really a chocolate fan — i like sour candy. which animal would you gladly never encounter in your lifetime? do insects count? any type of insect beside butterflies or something. who is your best friend? i have a few. greg is one of them. what’s the first thing you do when you wake up? open my eyes. who do you think has a perfect face? angelina jolie. are you in love? yes. could you write britney spears a hit single? i think so. what’s the strangest thing you’ve ever put in your mouth? mayonnaise. i really don't like mayonnaise. i can't. do you worry about your weight? erm, yeah. what did you have for breakfast? i haven't eaten today yet actually. have you ever done the harlem shake? no i've never done the harlem shake. what does miley cyrus smell like? she smells clean. good i guess. i don't know her exact scent. how many pints can you drink before you fall over? i don't drink beer, but i'm a lightweight with alcohol that's for sure. what would you like for dinner tonight? i really want a smoothie because i don't see them in the uk ever. what would you do with a million pounds? i'd buy some new clothes. i'd buy an apartment probably and then i'd help my family out. i do get sent clothes but i never get to keep the stuff i actually like. how old is too old for a man to go skateboarding? i mean, maybe if they're a professional skateboarder it's not that weird but i feel like outgrew skateboarders when i was in high school. i have a thing against long boards for some reason though. how do you feel about flip-flops? they're not okay to wear unless you're on a beach and even then it's not great. i don't like feet really. which member of your family is the worst cook? me. what colour are your pillows? white. what was your worst subject at school? math. what is the worst day of the week? monday. what side of the bed do you sleep on? erm, it depends where i am. i think i actually sleep on the right side usually. major label or independent? no label. just kidding! sea or swimming pool? sea. what’s your favourite cereal? i'm trying to think which one i really like. i like life. maybe that's an american cereal. it tastes like maple syrup sort of. surf or turf? surf. what’s your favourite breed of dog? i think i like pitbulls the best. do you ever feel like a plastic bag? blowing in the wind? only if there's wind involved. how many hours sleep do you need in order to function properly? four. i've always had insomnia my entire life. are you left or right handed? i'm right handed. how often do you get your haircut? not very often. like every six months or something. i'm usually forced to cut my hair and then it kept getting shorter because of all the dyeing, so now i've had to dye it dark to grow my hair back. what’s the best freebie you’ve ever been given? a free trip is always a good one. what’s the hardest word to spell? i can't spell anything right. what is the rudest word you know? there are a few. there are a lot of rude words. there are some offensive ones but then there's rude. the c word is offensive. how many tattoos do you have? i think i have eight altogether. are you bored of these questions yet? no it's fine. if you could force two popstars to mate who would you choose? madonna and michael jackson. you can't go wrong there. did you expect the lady gaga album to do better or worse than it did? i thought it would do better. new york, london, paris or munich? new york. what does tmz mean to you? (laughs) silence. it's fine. i mean, they haven't really messed with me too badly so it's alright. what’s the best day of the week? i'm always pleasantly surprised with saturdays. at what age were you happiest? 20. double denim – amazing or awful? it depends on the denim really. it also depends on what the actual article of clothing is. what’s wrong with pop? i don't think there's anything wrong with pop. what’s right with pop? everything! are you good in a fight? yeah i'm good at fighting. what’s the best location to park a caravan? to park a caravan? i don't know… an empty space. what word do people incorrectly use to describe you? (laughs) there's a few that i can think of. i guess when people act like i'm a hot mess or something because i'm actually not. in a lot of ways i'm actually not. what word do people correctly use to describe you? awkward. what is your favourite flavour of yoghurt? i don't eat yoghurt. i don't really eat dairy. what is the most expensive thing you have ever bought? i've had some plane tickets that have cost a lot of money. what is your favourite fruit? apples. would you rather not eat or not speak for 24 hours? eat. what is your least favourite tv show? i don't like roseanne. what was the last thing you read about yourself on the internet? that i'm a huge justin bieber fan because i said it was wrong that people are exploiting him. bath or shower? shower. coke or diet coke? diet coke. would you rather have no teeth or no hair? no teeth. why do we have dreams? to tell the future. i feel like fear comes through in my dreams. the red pill or the blue pill? what's the difference? i haven't seen the matrix actually. when was the last time you wet yourself? last time i wet myself? well i almost did at the hospital after i cut my leg. i couldn't get up and i kept trying to and i was on an iv and all this shit and they were like 'use a bedpan' and i said no and just held it. fried, boiled, poached or scrambled? scrambled. what's your favourite friends episode? the ones with the monkey in it. i just like monkeys. dogs or cats? dogs. rock or roll? rock. what are the names of the people you live with? cole smith. what do you have on your bedroom walls? a lot of movie posters. do you pair up your socks before you put them away? no. it depends actually. if i really like the pair of socks then yeah. do you iron your underwear? no. what did you do yesterday? this. christmas or birthday? birthday. town or country? town. comics or cartoons? cartoons. biscuit or cake? cake. what do you say to people who think pop is for teenage girls? that's stupid. which supermarket do you shop in? the one two blocks away from my house. where do you buy your pants? [she thinks this is about pants as in trousers] someone gave me these pants actually (points to jeans). it was on a photoshoot. they're calvin klein jeans from the 90s or something. which reality tv show do you most want to go on? star search. how fast is too fast? not fast enough. three words that best describe you in the morning are… drowsy. unaware. tired. have you ever fallen off a bike? yes. what is the name of the first person you kissed? danny. you must be bored of these questions now? a little bit. what was your worst injury ever? it happened last week. i got sixty stitches in my leg. how much money have you got on you? not much. i have two credit cards but i don't have any cash on me. which member will be the first to leave one direction? harry styles. my boyfriend who i've never met in my life. twitter or instagram? instagram. if you were twice as talented would you sell twice as many records? not necessarily. what percentage do you tip in a restaurant? twenty. can you leak some of the songs from those aborted albums of yours onto the internet please? okay! can you parallel park? no. i don't know how to drive. what could you do to get played on the radio more? we're working on that now! we're going to radio 1 every two hours, so. when's the next album out? whenever it's done. i'm doing stuff now but i don't know if it's for an album. just songs for different people. how good out of 10 was the lord of the rings film you kept counting down to on twitter? it was alright. (laughs) • 'night time, my time' is finally out now. sky ferreira previous article songs x priest x — 'isn't it so' march 20, 2014 popjustice have a read next article guest briefings the briefing i went to barcelona to hear the shakira album and this is what happened march 21, 2014 michael cragg have a read pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits we will not forget: the popjustice calvin harris christmas countdown cheryl cole interview an amazing charli xcx interview-slash-chat further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled