 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog 100+ types of digital content you can make written by: anya skrba (published on: august 7th, 2017 last updated: march 9th, 2020) posted in: blogging 4 comments written by anya skrba a lot of people would love to start a blog but have trouble deciding what types of content they could post. some would like to have mixed content but can’t decide what to choose. every day we can see different content types, and they all have their respective audience. surely, one can’t relate to every content type there is. also, there are new types of content coming out almost every day. so how do you decide which type of content best fits you? well, we have created a list of more than 100 types of content for you. by the end of this article, you will be able to decide which content type is down your alley. first, you need to know that we divided digital content into three broad groups: textual content multimedia content other textual content is that type of content that requires no audio or video material. all it takes is your love for words and the knowledge to form those words compellingly. there’s a lot of content you can create using only text, and the audience is vast also. multimedia content includes a mixture of different materials, and it’s a much larger group than the first one. this group includes video, audio, pictures or combination of all content. so let’s take a look at what types of content you can create for your blog, and what each content type has to offer. textual content 1. blog posts 3. how-tos 5. lists 7. case studies 9. interviews 11. book reviews 13. research 15. industry news 17. guest posts 19. success stories 21. comments 23. glossary 25. versus pages 27. predictions 29. how to avoid failure 31. funny stories 33. literary works 35. best practice 37. scheduled events 39. cost sheet 41. newsletters 43. recipes 2. articles 4. guides 6. q & a 8. testimonials 10. product reviews 12. checklists 14. white papers 16. company news 18. personal stories 20. personal bios 22. faqs 24. wikis 26. comparisons 28. inspirational messages 30. interesting facts 32. quotes 34. microblog posts 36. metaphors 38. “why” content 40. product announcements 42. promoted posts 44. disclaimers view more multimedia content 45. infographics 47. ebooks 49. audio posts 51. photography 53. vlog 55. micro videos 57. webinars 59. online events 61. surveys 63. slideshare 65. data collecting 67. illustrations 69. demonstrations 71. posters 73. comics and cartoons 75. online magazine 77. music videos 79. maps 81. fan page 83. giveaways 85. daily shows 46. cheat sheets 48. screenshots 50. audiobooks 52. podcasts 54. live videos 56. presentations 58. polls 60. online courses 62. roundups 64. data visualization 66. diagrams 68. gifs 70. transparency 72. memes 74. competitions 76. quizzes 78. psa 80. forums 82. media mentions 84. features pages view more other 86. plugins 88. free tools 90. qr codes 92. chat rooms 94. countdowns 96. calculators 98. user generated content 100. email campaigns 102. promo-sites 104. best awards 106. offline magazines 108. ads 87. templates 89. browser extensions 91. free resources 93. mobile apps 95. social buttons 97. converters 99. collaborations 101. landing pages 103. income reports 105. online games 107. swag view more textual content 1. blog posts blog posts are the type of textual content that allows you to create a continuous and consistent content. blog posts allow you to express your creativity and opinion on any given subject. it’s always a good idea to have the schedule for your posts and make them consistent. 2. articles another type of textual content that allows you to publish your company news, announcements or any other kind of content. it’s like having your magazine. recommended reading: the biggest differences between articles and blogs 3. how to in most cases, this is textual content that provides instructions to its readers. you can help people learn how to do various things, build stuff or use some software. it’s not uncommon to create video or audio “how to” content as well. 4. guides if you consider yourself a guru in a particular topic, then creating guides would be a great way to teach others. share your knowledge and guide people through all kinds of different issues. 5. lists think about any topic and you can create a list. you can list top movies, books, all kinds of products and services. this type of content has a vast audience and if you like creating lists, just go for it. 6. q & a question & answer is always a favorite content. a lot of people on the internet have questions about almost everything. creating this kind of content offers a great opportunity for an impressive number of visits. it can be textual or multimedia, depending on your preferences. 7. case studies case studies tell stories of your customers and how you’ve helped them solve their issues. it is an excellent way to influence your prospects and turn them into customers. recommended reading: how to write a case study 8. testimonials it’s the same as case studies but with a twist. testimonials show what your clients tell (in their words) about your products or services. it’s a great way to expand your market because you will have real customers sharing their experience. 9. interviews interviews is a helpful content, and it can be textual and multimedia. you could have experts on any field and talk about various related topics. you could talk about some current issues or turn to some past events. it’s all up to you and your creativity. 10. product reviews this one can also be textual and multimedia content. find an exciting product and let everyone know everything there is to know about it. product reviews are very popular as they help audience decide on buying a special item. 11. book reviews if you like to read books, and you want to share your opinion with the internet, this is your type of content. book reviews are fun to do and have a great audience you can interact with. he is an excellent example of how to do it right. 12. checklists the checklist is the type of content that allows readers to follow a step-by-step guide through an inevitable process. you share with your readers all the steps they need to take to accomplish something. recommended reading: checklist for bloggers who want to create a profitable blog 13. research if you like to research hot topics and share your findings and conclusions, then start a research blog. you can research any topic you find interesting or have access to. this content has a broad audience, and you can make a name for yourself this way. 14. white papers you can create white papers if you want to give some technical information to your readers. it’s mostly pdf format content that you can share for download. white papers can also present case studies that offer problems and solutions to these problems. recommended reading: white papers versus blog posts 15. industry news find an industry you like, or you think would have a broad audience. search for news and report to your audience. be careful not to copy/paste the story, but rather give your view of the story. 16. company news another great content for all business owners. you can write news about your business and share with your customers and investors. 17. guest posts guest post is content that allows visitors to post their content on your blog. you can choose the content you like before publishing it to avoid any problems. recent statisitics show that 59.8% of bloggers guest-post at least occasionally. 18. personal stories if you have a lot of life stories to tell, this is a great way to share them with the world. you can also have guest writers to share their personal stories with people. here is a good example of sharing personal stories and letting other people share their own stories. 19. success stories let everyone know how you made it to the top. share your tactics with others so they can achieve their goals. this content can be textual and multimedia, depending on how you want to present it. there are a lot of people looking for success stories on the internet. 20. personal bios the bio is a great content to create. it can be a textual or multimedia content, and it will always be actual. you can use various resources online to help you research and create this compelling content. 21. comments the comment is the best way to get feedback from your readers. no matter what your blog is about, comments will be useful. it’s also a good way to generate new ideas for the future. 22. faqs frequently asked question section is the best way to lower down the number of contacts you get about your product or services. this information can provide your visitors with some common questions people already asked you. 23. glossary the glossary is a textual content that attracts a vast audience. it includes a list of phrases and acronyms related to a unique subject, with their definitions. 24. wikis create a wiki content on a topic related to you. allow visitors to add content, and you will have a lot of visitors for sure. also, this will make your blog shared on lots of places and used as a reference in internet disputes. this star wars wiki page is a great example how a wiki page should look. 25. versus articles opposed to “comparisons” this example of content aims to prove why certain product or service is better than its opponent. it can also be textual or multimedia content. it is an exceptional way to promote a product that you have to offer. 26. comparisons the comparison is a type of content where you compare two or more products to decide which is better. you can create this sort of content in a textual or multimedia form. take a look at our comparison of top ten blogging platforms. 27. predictions if you think that you can predict individual events based on some info or experience, then you should blog about it. people could visit your blog and read your predictions on presidential elections or fifa world cup. of course, prepare yourself for a lot of raging comments, because not everyone will agree with you. 28. inspirational messages if you have a talent and can inspire people with your words, then you can post your inspirational messages. these messages can generate a lot of shares, and there’s a big chance that some of your posts go viral. 29. how to avoid failure opposite to success stories, this is content that helps people understand how they could fail in their endeavors. it doesn’t matter if you decide to create textual or multimedia content, it can work either way. 30. interesting facts people love to read interesting facts about everything there is. the hotter the topic, the more people will be interested. facts can be textual or multimedia content, although it would be best if you just keep it textual. of course, be sure to backup your facts with relevant sources. 31. funny stories if you want to amuse your audience, then you can post funny stories on your blog. people love to pass the time searching for funny stories and other similar content. the world is full of funny stories and why not place them on your blog. 32. quotes the quote can be textual content that you can post on your blog. quote famous people and share their thoughts with your audience. this type of content attracts a broad audience and promises a big number of social media shares. if you own business, you can place a quote by an influencer or the industry guru. 33. literary works if you have a talent for storytelling and you are creative, you can use your blog to publish your original content. it could be short stories, poems or any other type of literary content. 34. microblog posts if you like to post a short but valuable textual content to comment on a particular event or share your general thoughts, this is a nice way. people often complain that twitter doesn’t offer enough characters, so beat tweeter at their own game. recommended reading: a definition of microblogging with examples 35. best practice it’s not a bad idea to share your best practice experience with your audience. people love to make their jobs easier and if you can help them with that – why not? 36. metaphors if you want to write about something everyone is writing about, it’s not a bad idea to do it differently. approach a subject from another angle and tell the same story from an entirely different perspective. 37. scheduled events you can post schedule to events you plan to organize or attend. allow your audience to know where they could follow you. also, it will be a useful reminder for your visitors if they want to meet you. 38. “why” content explain to your audience how something happened or why some things are in a certain way. you can do it using solid facts or be controversial – which is always more fun. 39. cost sheet if you own a business website and selling some products, it’s a good idea to have an expense sheet. cost sheet shows prices of your products to your customers. 40. product announcements if you have to release a new product shortly, it would be a smart move to announce it. you can prepare your audience for it and have them waiting to build up the public interest. 41. newsletters this material serves to inform people about new products and services. this content is useful if you own business. you can create newsletters to inform your clients about your most recent updates. 42. promoted post you can push a particular item such as free or gift offers from the particular brand that is related to your niche. promos are standard practice, and bloggers do it all the time. 43. recipes if you are good at cooking and you would like to share your skills with the rest of the world, this is a right content for you. you can choose to make this textual or multimedia content, depending on your personal preferences. 44. disclaimers the disclaimer is usually a single page of textual content that explains copyright issues. you can also use a disclaimer to explain your intent and the purpose of your blog or a post. recommended reading: sample disclaimer template multimedia content 45. infographics this content is all about visualization. it shows facts, statistics and other relevant information in a visual way. infographics are a growing trend, and there’s a bright future for all who create this kind of content. 46. cheat sheets the cheat sheet is a type of content that attracts a vast number of visitors. people love to cut corners and do things the easy way. you can use and create cheat sheets, depending on your needs and preferences. 47. ebooks you can probably guess that ebooks are practically electronic books. you can create them and share on various websites or store them on your blog as a pdf for anyone to download. the main difference between ebook and a simple blog post is that ebooks are much larger and detailed content. 48. screenshots if you want to prove your point and you don’t want to spend too much time explaining yourself this is the way to do it. just take screenshots of already created content and make your point. 49. audio posts this type of multimedia content allows you to send your message to the audience with your voice. you can use a recording software and then just post the audio file for everyone to listen. 50. audiobooks same as ebooks, but uses the audio medium. if you have your ebook, you can record yourself reading chapter by chapter and share it on your blog. if you don’t like the way your voice sounds, you can always hire someone to do it for you. here is how you can narrate your own ebook: 51. photography if you like to take photos then posting photography content is an exceptional way to express yourself and your work. you can create stock photos that people can download for a fee. or you can allow them to use them for free. it’s all up to you. 52. podcasts the podcast is audio content you can create to share your views on various topics. people can sign up to your podcast if you decide to publish files in series. you record audio files and post them on your blog for people to download or listen. 53. vlog vlog is a video content that you can post on your blog and have people come and follow you. you can create travel vlog and share stories from your travels. it is a hot content at the moment, and it’s still growing larger. here is an interesting vlog example. 54. live videos use your blog to create live video content. visitors can enjoy your live stream and comment on your activities. this type of content is pretty popular among the younger population. 55. micro videos short videos that can promote a product or an idea. it’s a nice way to get your short message out to your audience. they can last a few seconds and still convey a powerful message. here’s an interesting list of short videos by lowes. 56. presentations create a presentation of your product or service and embed it on your page. the presentation is a comprehensive way to share an idea or a project with your audience. 57. webinars if you are very skilled at your area, you can start webinars and have people log in and hear what you have to say. it’s a great way to make a real name for yourself, and share your knowledge with those who are interested. recommended reading: 15 tips to massively increase webinar registrations 58. polls pools are multimedia content that you can generate to get public opinion on any given topic. they are easy to create, there are a lot of plugins that you can use to make polls. here is a great example of the poll created by denise wakeman. 59. online events your blog can be a place where people could watch online events you attended or read about it. this is a good way to share your experiences from events related to your niche. 60. courses the course is a type of educational content that gathers people interested in learning new things. you can also help people get certain skills that you would pass onto them. here is a great example of the blogging course offered by jeff goins. 61. surveys if you like to gather data or different opinions, you can create all sorts of studies that your visitors could fill out for you. you can also send them via email and get even more visitors. 62. roundups to create this content, all you need to do is collect content related to your industry which interests you. then you list it all up for your visitors, so they don’t have to spend time doing the research. the smartest move would be to choose from the most popular content on the internet. you can publish these posts weekly, bi-weekly or monthly. here is a good example on how to make expert roundup posts. 63. slideshares the slideshare is a multimedia content that allows you to create slideshows and post them on your blog. this way you can present your work, ideas or some fun photos with your audience. recommended reading: the a-to-z guide to slideshare 64. data visualization this content allows you to visually show all your data with all sorts of charts and graphs. it’s also a growing trend, and it can find its purpose in almost any industry. recommended reading: data visualization 65. data collecting you can post some interesting data or research results that people would be interested to see. this information is a fine way to get a specific audience on your blog. 66. diagrams it’s a visual content that uses multimedia to show relations between certain events or people. it’s a great way to simplify complex data because your audience has a visual context. here is a good example of marketing diagrams that explain content marketing. 67. illustrations you can create pictures to make a point or tell a short story. illustrations are graphic content that you can set up and post on your blog. you can also combine illustrations and textual content so that image amplifies your text. 68. gifs animated gifs are multimedia content that shows a short action that repeats over and over again. it’s mostly used for fun and shows an entertaining content. it is an excellent way to get a lot of likes and shares on social networks. you can use an online gif maker to easily whip up gifs using youtube videos or photos as source. 69. demonstrations the demonstration is pretty much self-explanatory. you can create multimedia content and show how your product works. if you don’t offer any product, you can show how some other products work. it’s common for the younger generation to show video game plays. 70. transparency let’s say you own a business. maybe you want to share your financial info with your customers. maybe you want to show your growth and investments or plans. that’s what transparency is all about. it can also be textual or multimedia content; all depends on how you want to present your data. microsoft is one of the most transparent large corporations. here is how they do it. 71. posters this type of content predates digital era. it shows information, but it doesn’t rely on text as much as visual aspect. you can create posters if you want to point out an issue with as fewer words possible. 72. memes the meme is a graphic content used for comedy and entertainment. memes are photos or screenshots with a humorous message written on the top or the bottom side. people like to see memes, and they are among the most shared content on the internet. recommended reading: what is a blog meme? 73. comics and cartoons if you are creative and want to make people laugh, then this is the perfect content for your blog. there’s not much to explain, we all know what comics and cartoons are. take a pen or a mouse, start drawing and create interesting and funny stories. 74. competitions you can create all kinds of contests people can enter. to guarantee fairness, you can allow visitors to vote for their favorite. recommended reading: how to run a blog competition to find new readers and make your blog sticky 75. online magazine the magazine is a multimedia content that you can create and have a large audience that would become regular. it’s up to your personal preferences what the magazine would include. there are a lifestyle, tech, construction, home development and many other topics you can exploit. 76. quizzes the quiz is a fun content to create, and it can attract a massive audience. there are a lot of plugins that you can use to create fun and interesting quizzes. 77. music videos if you are a music fan and want to share music videos you like with other people, then you can embed all kinds of music videos on your blog. music can attract a lot of audiences and take your blog to the new level. 78. psa public service announcements can be textual or video content that can have an impact on the general public. you can use psa to address any burning issue or educate the public on various topics. psa content creators prefer video content as they can convey their emotions to the public easier. 79. maps the map is a multimedia content that you can post on your blog and share with your visitors. you can point out interesting places or historical events that happened in a precise place or area. 80. forums this type of content is an excellent way to get a lot of visitors on your page. people can discuss a broad number of topics and get some answers. it’s a great way for people to share their knowledge and experience. recommended reading: 10 ways to make your online community or forum more active 81. fan page if you are a fan of some pop star or a movie star, then this is a nice way to share your devotion with others. you can post photos, stories, videos and other related stuff to your fans. this type of content usually attracts a younger audience. 82. media mentions if your business was ever noticed by media, it’s not a bad idea to create a page and share it with your clients and visitors. let everybody know what media thinks about you and your business. 83. giveaways people love free stuff. if you want to attract more audience to your blog, then this is an outstanding way to reach this goal. 84. feature pages this content relates to specific features of a single product. it’s a great way to promote a product that you love or sell. here are some interesting examples of nicely designed product pages. 85. daily shows this type of multimedia content allows you to address your audience on a regular basis. you can talk about any given topic and draw inspiration from your audience. askgaryvee show is a nice example for you. other 86. plugins this type of content is a good way to fill in some blank spots on your blog. you can try and find all sorts of plugins that your visitors could use. 87. templates this content allows you to explain your audience how to do something. for example, you can create templates for various forms and sheets. just make sure that you’ve got all your facts straight. you can also allow your visitors to download templates for a fee and make some money on the way. recommended reading: here to help: creating a custom theme or template for your team’s forms 88. free tools you can offer various free tools for all kinds of purposes to your audience. you can also create different sections of your blog, each containing devices respective to that section. you can decide if you are only going to share the story of those tools or post links for download. take a look at our list of tools for bloggers, webmasters, and startups. 89. browser extensions this content allows you to promote and expand your business, with content integrated into chrome or some other browser. 90. qr codes if you have a product or service to offer to your visitors, then qr codes can be useful content. people can scan qr code and order a product or sign up for a service. recommended reading: how to make a qr code 91. free resources just gather as much free stuff for your visitors to download. you can choose to share external links to those resources if you like. also, you can create different sections so people could easily find what they need. take a look at our section of useful blogging resources created to help web newbies establish their online identity. 92. chat rooms you can create live chat on your blog and attract users this way. visitors could talk and have fun, share information and experiences. you can watch the chat and see if there are any troublemakers. recommended reading: add live chat to your site or blog in 3 easy steps 93. mobile apps it’s old news that more and more people use mobile devices above desktop computers. you can use this to gather all those people on your blog. share mobile apps or develop your own and post them on your blog for everyone to download. 94. countdowns countdowns are interesting and amusing content. you can place this content on your blog to show a countdown to new year or a beginning of an important event. there are blogs dedicated only to countdowns until specific events happen. 95. social network buttons if you want your blog to be seen by as many people as possible, then you need to place social buttons on your blog. people can share your posts with a click of a button. this way you will be seen on facebook, instagram, google+, pinterest, linkedin, etc. 96. calculators calculators are useful content that can help your visitors figure many things. you can help them count how much money they will spend on a particular project or trip. it’s all up to your creativity and the market demands. 97. converters this type of content allows your visitors to convert currency or different units (meters, pounds, inch, ounce, etc.). not all people in the world use the same system of units, and that’s why converters can be useful. recommended reading: how to develop a currency converter app? 98. user generated content open up your blog for visitors and allow them to post any content with your approval. this kind of content is an excellent way to form a massive audience. you can administer everything that visitors post and delete unwanted content. 99. collaborations sometimes you can create a content working together with other bloggers. this way bloggers promote each other and help each other out. 100. email campaign a type of marketing content that allows you to share your news and projects with your customers. create a list of recipients and let them know every time you have something exceptional in store. 101. landing pages an awesome way to expand your email list. landing pages usually offer something to the visitor in exchange for their email address. 102. promo-sites this one is pretty much self-explanatory. promo-sites are pages that promote a unique product or a service. it can be your product, or someone can pay you to promote their product or a service. 103. income reports some business owners like to share their earnings reports. it’s a nice way to stay transparent and show your clients how your business develops. 104. best awards bloggers love to compete. events that offer awards for best digital content are another interesting way to promote your page and get a new audience. here is an example of such content. 105. online games if you are skilled at developing simple browser games that would attract people to your blog, this is something you could do. there are also online games that you could just host on your blog and reach an audience as well. 106. offline magazines if you are a fan of printed media, you can scan some printed magazines and post them for your audience. it’s a nice way to keep an archive that people would use when needed. 107. swag show thanks to your customers and supporters. send them fun and useful gifts with your business logo. it’s a great way to show your appreciation and promote your brand. 108. ads if you have a blog, you can place ads on some posts to advertise the related brand. it is a legitimate and easy way to make some extra money for yourself. conclusion content is not limited to the written material but easily overlooked. it is often best to utilize numerous forms of content and give your audience more than one way to obtain the knowledge. great content knows what the audience wants and delivers it. do that, and you can’t fail. this entry was posted in blogging. bookmark the permalink. additional reading what is content marketing and how it can help your blog? how to create custom post types in wordpress how to sell digital and physical products online what is blog marketing? what is evergreen content and why your blog needs it? start your own blog this guide is an introduction to mastering the art of blogging. it provides easy to follow steps to start, maintain, and grow your blog. read the guide « previous how much does it cost to run a blog? next » disqus comment system plugin overview 4 comments on “100+ types of digital content you can make” guest april 14, 2019 at 7:26 am thank you. it is indeed a long list of content! reply pingback: digital marketing trends for the hospitality industry in 2017 pingback: how to identify, optimize, and upcycle your best content | connect.homes.com pingback: content marketers: stop creating and start documenting - getresponse blog leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog categories blogging wordpress interviews search how to start a blog the beginner's guide 2020 free guide + ebook learn blogging become a successful blogger learn wordpress understand the best practices blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.