skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us 11 best keyword research tools for bloggers (free and paid) that will help you dominate seo alex nerney updated: 12/13/19 • comments: 29 home » create and go blog » blogging tools » 11 best keyword research tools for bloggers (free and paid) that will help you dominate seo disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin355 shares355 struggling with traffic? wishing the google gods would just notice you already!? or maybe you just need to find interesting topics for your blog readers? either way… if any or all of these apply to you… you’re gonna need to brush up on your keywords research skills. when we created our blog, we wrote posts based on topics that we believed our readers wanted. we didn’t ask them what they wanted. we didn’t do any keyword research. just thought up cool ideas and started writing. the problem with this is two-fold: you’re making assumptions about what your readers want and you could be totally wrong. you’re not creating content that is searchable. keyword research is super important when you’re creating content because it helps you create content with a purpose. i.e. content that people want, need, and are searching for! when you choose keywords that people are actively searching for, your content is more likely to be found on search platforms like google, pinterest, and youtube. so, how do you find these keywords people are searching for? well, that’s what this whole article is about! we’ve rounded up some of the best keyword research tools and we’ve included both free and paid options! honestly, we use a combination of tools when it comes to keyword research because every software is a little different and comes with different capabilities. the following are in no particular order, so let’s jump right into the 11 best free and paid keyword research tools for bloggers! table of contents close open 1. pinterest (#1 free recommendation) 2. keywords everywhere (paid) 3. google trends (free) 4. long tail pro (paid) 5. keyword tool.io (free and paid) 6. ubersuggest (free) 7. google search console (free) 8. moz keyword explorer (paid) 9. semrush 10. ahrefs (#1 paid recommendation) 11. answer the public (free) now that you know what the tools are, let’s break them down further, so you can decide which one, or which ones, are right for you. p.s. make sure to select at least one of these keyword research tools to use when you are planning and writing your new blog content! 1. pinterest (#1 free recommendation) you’re probably thinking… “say what!?” that’s right! believe it or not, you can use pinterest as a keyword research tool for bloggers simply by searching for words or phrases using their search feature. if you’re using pinterest to drive traffic to your blog, this is absolutely the first place you should start! pinterest was the #1 source of traffic for our first health and wellness blog and is a major source of traffic for this blog. it’s also what we used to get ideas for new content. when you type a word or phrase into the search bar (i.e. “baby diapers”), pinterest will suggest related keywords based on popular user searches on the platform. then, if you click on one of the related keywords that pinterest auto-populates (i.e. “baby diapers cloth”), it will suggest additional keyword ideas. let’s say you’re a mom blogger, and you’re looking for new keyword phrases to write about baby diapers. in just a few minutes, you can find new ideas and keywords that people are actually looking for to include in your blog content, leading to more organic page views. similarly, there’s a website called pinterest keyword tool that gives you popular keywords for pinterest search optimization. what’s pinterest seo? basically what we just talked about. it’s just strategically using keywords that you know people are searching for because it will help your content get found in search more. in the example below, i typed in “healthy recipes,” and was given six popular keywords that people are looking for on pinterest. if you’re a blogger driving traffic with pinterest, learning these popular keywords is invaluable to your content planning strategy! 2. keywords everywhere (paid) keywords everywhere is a free browser add-on for chrome and firefox that gives you an analysis of search volume, cost per click (cpc), and competition data of keywords on multiple websites. let’s say you search the phrase “dog training” on google. before you even hit the “enter” key, you can view search volume, cpc, and competition data for that particular keyword or phrase! this is how it would appear on your computer if you have the keywords everywhere addon installed: once you hit enter, you can see more information about additional related keywords: i love this tool because of how quick and easy it is to use! you don’t have to visit any particular website or login anywhere. you can also turn it on or off anytime you want in your extension settings. just click the little k icon in the top right-hand corner of your browser and go to the settings. you can install the keywords everywhere extension on your browser for free here. 3. google trends (free) with google trends, you can see what the world is searching, and find out related topics and queries as well. you can see exactly where in the world people are searching for what topics. below are the results for the phrase “video games for kids” in the us vs worldwide: but perhaps one of my favorite features is… google trends also tells you the interest over time of the keyword or phrase you’re searching. this lets you know if the search is steady, climbing, or if interest is fading. it’s great to write articles on trending topics because search volume can be higher than normal, but you would never want to hit the tail end of a trending topic because then you’re just wasting your time. it can also just help with the timing of your post… for example, the graph below shows the search volume for “greek yogurt” over an 8-year period. this graph shows us that there is a steady drop in searches for greek yogurt towards the end of the year and a huge jump at the beginning of every year. with this data, i can conclude that it’s probably a good idea to post a new article on this topic right at the beginning of the year when the search volume is highest! because there is no sense writing about greek yogurt in october when everyone is up to their eyeballs in searches for pumpkin spiced everything! am i right? throw a few ideas in google trends before you find a spot for them in your content calendar! 4. long tail pro (paid) using longer-tail keywords can be a great strategy to get more google seo traffic. here are some examples to show the differences between short, medium, and long-tail keywords: short-tail keyword: yoga-poses medium-tail keyword: beginner-yoga-poses long-tail keyword: beginner-yoga-poses-for-flexibility longer-tailed keywords generally have lower search volume but also lower competition. some people use the long-tail keyword strategy to create a bunch of content that has an easier chance of ranking (rather than creating fewer, more competitive articles that have a chance of getting higher traffic). you can use long tail pro to find these less competitive keywords (that could hopefully translate to a boatload of high-converting traffic.) when you type in a keyword like “home decor,” this tool will spit back related long-tail keywords that would be much easier to rank for on google. if you receive too many long-tail keywords, you can add filters to your limit results based on your average cpc bid, search volume, rank value, and more. long tail pro has a free 7-day trial if you want to test the various elements they offer as well. 5. keyword tool.io (free and paid) so when you type something into google, what happens? google usually starts trying to autocomplete what it thinks you’re searching for. that can get really funny (or really awkward) depending on what you’re typing in… that is the idea behind keyword tool, but it gives you more search suggestions (up to 20). this is also a great tool to look for long-tail keywords like we explained in with long tail pro. you can use this tool completely free, even without creating an account. or you can pay for their pro version to unlock some additional features and which provides about double the amount of suggested keywords. 6. ubersuggest (free) ubersuggest is one of my favorite free tools for keyword research because of how simple it is! it’s a very easy-to-use tool and provides you with some important information without getting too lost in the data overwhelm. this keyword research tool that not only gives you long-tail keyword suggestions but also tells you a percentage of how likely you are to be able to rank for the keyword you type in. here is an example of a search for “swing dancing”: ubersuggest told me that this keyword is easy to rank for and that there is a 73% chance i can rank in the top 20. then, you can click to view more keyword ideas, which gives you some additional information about your keyword, and other websites that are ranking for that particular keyword: ubersuggest is an awesome free tool and where i would suggest any beginner blogger on a budget get started! 7. google search console (free) in order to get site traffic and performance data from google search console, you’ll need to first verify your website. after your site is verified, you can start monitoring your site’s performance in search: the google overlords also will tell you which search terms and phrases bring up your content in search, which can help you come up with similar or better content to boost your rankings! it can also help you create sales-centered content so that you can use certain articles to drive more traffic to your paid products (affiliates or your own). more on that in our full guide on how to make money blogging. you can also see mobile coverage and issues: google will also alert you via email when new issues are detected so that you can fix them asap and make sure they don’t affect your rankings! so if you haven’t verified your website with google search console yet, you should do so now! 8. moz keyword explorer (paid) this is the first keyword research tool on our list that goes much further than anything we have seen so far! moz keyword explorer tells you… the monthly volume of the number of searches for the keyword, how hard it would be to rank in the top 10 spots for the keyword, the organic click-through rate (ctr), and sooo much more! here is an example with the keyword “cat costumes:” they also give you a serp analysis to spy on, errr, i mean see what other websites are ranking for keywords. there are loads more bells and whistles in this tool, and it has a pretty hefty price tag accordingly. but if you can afford this tool and really learn how to use it to grow your business, it’s 100% worth it! you can try it out here. and if it’s not in your price range at the moment, you can also check out their free seo tools! 9. semrush disclosure: we are an affiliate for semrush, which means that we may receive a commission if you sign up through our affiliate link. this is at no additional cost to you and helps us continue to offer free content on our site. p.s. we only recommend products and services that we have personally used and continue to stand by! this is one of my favorites and one that we have personally been using for a couple of years now! like many of the tools mentioned so far, semrush helps you… find related keywords find the right keywords that are appropriate for your target audience. get information on cpc and search volume …but it also comes with a whole host of other features: we personally use it a lot to track our domain authority and rankings for google. every week, we get notifications from semrush on whether we have moved ahead or fallen behind our competitors in terms of domain rankings. we also get emails when there are issues detected on our websites (broken links, 404 error pages, etc.) so that we can fix them before they hurt our rankings. you can also conduct backlink analysis, gather long tail keyword phrases, and get the best keyword ideas for your website. it has become a super important tool in our business and growth. it’s also pretty expensive, so if you’re choosing between this and moz, we recommend semrush 100%. 10. ahrefs (#1 paid recommendation) this is another tool that we pay for and use almost on a daily basis! with ahrefs, you also get a lot more than keyword research. you also get competitive analysis, backlink research, content research, rank tracking, and web monitoring. the #1 reason we love this software is the organization of backlink information. you can easily see all the information on backlinks, including who is linking to you and what links you have gained and lost, and even what links you lost. link-building is perhaps the most important (and also painful) part of building your seo strategy. the 2nd best feature we love is the keyword explorer. it gives incredibly accurate data on keywords for youtube, google, amazon, and more. it supposedly is even more accurate than google keyword planner. lastly, it’s super easy to use! it’s simple to set up, see what your competition is ranking for, and come up with creative ideas to get backlinks and new keywords. it’s also a bit more “intuitive” than semrush (although we do use both tools). the ahrefs keyword explorer will give you thousands of relevant keyword suggestions from their mammoth database of over 3 billion keywords. (yes, billion with a b!) like other tools mentioned here, ahrefs will also give you a difficulty score to let you know how hard it would be to rank for a keyword, which helps you make smarter choices about the keywords you want to use. one of the coolest features of ahrefs is its content explorer. when you put a keyword into the tool, it will show you what content has performed best on social media, organic search, and in terms of the number of backlinks the content had. ahref’s web monitoring tool is pretty neat too. it allows you to set up alerts for any keywords that are related to your blog. then, if someone mentions the keywords you want to rank for on their website, you’ll get an email notification with a link to the page. think of it as google alerts for your preferred keywords, but better. 11. answer the public (free) i know what you’re thinking, the old man that appears on the homepage is sort of… okay very… creepy. but, this tool will provide you with numerous keyword suggestions in a unique organization that makes them very easy to utilize. honestly, the organization of answer the public’s results is the most valuable part of using this keyword planner. while you could probably find similar keyword results on any of the keyword tools i mentioned already, it’s the way atp delivers their results that make it an awesome keyword tool. atp delivers results for your chosen keyword by using 5 different categories. questions prepositions comparisons alphabeticals related after inputting your chosen term, these categories will fill with results in a very visual, easy to digest, manner. then, breaking them down further, it will divide the suggestions into specific categories within those 5 categories. it makes the process of deciding how you’re going to use your keyword as simple as possible. and you get your results in a perfectly organized, flower-like, flurry of suggestions: this tool is crazy quick, super simple, and with the variety of suggestions it gives you in an organized manner, it can really get you out of a rut if you’re experiencing keyword research frustration. which free and paid keyword tools for bloggers are right for you? as you can see, there are a ton of different keyword research tools for bloggers out there, all with different features, functionality, and price tags! here are our personal favorites that we use regularly in our business: paid: ahrefs paid: semrush free: pinterest free: ubersuggest free: google trends free: google search console we use all of these tools regularly when we are planning out and writing content for our blogs! a few of the paid tools offer free trials, so i would suggest testing them out and seeing which one best meets your needs! but even if you use just one of these keyword tools for bloggers, you’ll be that much closer to boosting your search engine rankings and getting more traffic to your blog! are you currently using any of these keyword research tools or do you plan to try one out? did we miss one? or just want to tell us that you loved the article!? please leave us a comment below! we’d love to hear from you! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin355 shares355 about alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. read this next bluehost coupon code: 65% off + free domain name (2020) bluehost is one of the largest and most mature web hosts on the market. having first launched in 1996, bluehost has become a household name in the blogging world and for good reason. they are one of a handful of recommended hosts by wordpress, which is the largest blogging content management system (cms) on the […] keep reading > similar articles blogging tools 19 best blogging tools for beginners and beyond in 2020 convertkit review for bloggers – why we switched from active campaign mailchimp vs. convertkit: email marketing software for bloggers see all blog posts 29 leave a reply 13 comment threads 16 thread replies 0 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 17 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest venus stark such incredibly valuable information. i can’t thank you enough for all your hard work. just getting my blog going and this made it easier. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago admin alex and lauren great to hear! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago guest thomas awesome post! oh and for some reason #2 on the table of contents wasn’t working for me, figured i’d let ya know 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren hey thomas. that’s strange. i just tested it out and it worked for me. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest natalie hello! awesome content. thank you for that! just an update, keywords everywhere is no longer free 🙁 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren hey natalie. thanks for the reminder about keywords everywhere. we need to get that updated on the blog post 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest jannik [chasecut.de] hey alex & lauren, your content is awesome! thank you for sharing! greetings from germany jannik you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks, jannik! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago guest vijay jangra big fan of your blog, your strategies and your pinterest techniques and thanks for sharing this kind of great content and special thanks for morivation that i get from your blog so my question is, i have a website which i want to rank on bing. is there any good keyword research tool which i can use to get specific keyword volume and difficulty for bing search engine?? it would be really nice, if you will help me with this. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago admin alex and lauren hey vijay. our focus has been google seo, so i don’t have anything to recommend for bing keyword search volumes. ironically, a quick google search on the subject brought up this website: https://www.bing.com/toolbox/keywords …i do not have any experience with it to give a recommendation. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago guest tony taylor i love your content am a marketer just in the game for about 2 months know and loving it……. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago admin alex and lauren awesome! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago guest nick hazleton great topic. i recently started implementing more keywords strategy. in fact, i have been able to use a strategy called the keyword golden ratio which helps rank for certain low competition terms. the kgr strategy was developed by doug cunnington of niche site project (i have no affiliation, just recommending). almost every article i have written using kgr has shown up on the first two pages of google using this strategy. it is a great way to start getting google seo traffic to your blog right away (in addition to pinterest of course) thanks for another great article! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks for sharing what works for you, nick! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago guest john i think ubersuggest is heavily underrated. not only can you find out how easy it is to rank for a keyword. but you can also perform a ‘site audit’ to find any seo issues with your website. as well as using the backlinks tab to start with your backlinking strategies. another cool feature of ubersuggest which i have seen buzzsumo provide is content ideas. you can look up keywords to find popular posts on that topic. it even has how many times its been shared on social platforms like facebook & pinterest. so ubersuggest is slowly providing features that the… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks for your insight, john! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago guest suheyl hey alex & lauren, thanks for this awesome post. i really enjoyed it. could you please tell me what is your conversion rates on the free “how to monetize your blog” that is in the bottom of this post? i myself started collecting emails with free courses, but since switching from a free pdf to courses my conversion rate dropped from 5% to 1% :(. (the amount of visitors in relation to signups through your free course) please tell me. it would make me more confident in my strategy. thank you. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago admin alex and lauren conversion rates are always something to approve on! anything above 1% is great, so keep it up! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago guest tyler hastings thank you, alex & lauren, for sharing this post! i am going to implement this on my blog right away! i can’t tell you both how hard i have worked to start up my blog and it is because of you both that i am pursuing this new found passion:) i just wanted to say thank you! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago admin alex and lauren great to hear, tyler! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago guest jennifer | the learning chick thanks so much for sharing this list! i’m focusing on improving my seo for q2 and this list will definitely help! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago admin alex and lauren great! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago guest charlesa velasquez super helpful guys! thank you, thank you! keep killing it! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks, charlesa! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago guest lindsey hazel | hazel haven ahh this is a great roundup post! i love using pinterest, keywords everywhere, ubersuggest and if i could add one more to the list it would be answer the public! thank so much for sharing this- pinning to share! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago admin alex and lauren hey lindsey! great suggestion! thanks for sharing 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago admin alex and lauren hey lindsey! just wanted to let you know we added answer the public to the post 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago guest peter dembinski hi folks, wondering if there is a technical problem with your page or some misstep on my part. i’ve tried to sign up for the free 5 day bootcamp a week ago but no info from you. best, peter (with another e-mail below) you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago admin alex and lauren hey peter. send us an email at [email protected] along with the email address you used to sign up for the course and we’ll get it checked out. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents 1. pinterest (#1 free recommendation) 2. keywords everywhere (free) 3. google trends (free) 4. long tail pro (paid) 5. keyword tool.io (free and paid) 6. ubersuggest (free) 7. google search console (free) 8. moz keyword explorer (paid) 9. semrush 10. ahrefs (#1 paid recommendation) 11. answer the public (free) footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz