skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about 11 genuine work from home jobs by ricky willis | last updated 13th february 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links share tweet pin more than ever, people in the uk are looking to supplement their income by finding a job where they can work from home. and in an era where we are more connected than ever through the internet and social media, there hasn’t been a better time to find genuine opportunities to earn extra money. you might even find a whole new career! but where on earth do you start? you can go round in circles trying to work out what’s a legitimate job opportunity (and what’s not). just be sure to never pay any money up front for an “opportunity” which seems too good to be true, and stick with genuine work from home jobs that won’t see you out of pocket! genuine work from home jobs if you’re looking for a genuine work from home job in 2019, this is where you want to start. although this guide is geared towards the uk market, if you’re here from the us, australia or canada, these jobs could work for you as well – which is the joy of working from home. we’ve also pulled together a great list of temporary uk christmas jobs who are looking for people right now. table of contents: freelance writer virtual assistant transcribing graphic designer survey taker tech support online customer service/call centre blogger ironing service esl teacher travel agent extra information: how much should you charge as a freelancer? declaring your income how to manage your time why we don’t mention mlms freelance writer what do they do? as a freelance writer, you write and edit for online and offline publications. this could be for websites, blogs, magazines, or adverts. there are so many different industries so you could look to specialise in one area or branch out and cover lots of various topics. what do you need? this is where gcses go out of the window as you don’t need any special training. however, you do need a good grasp of the english language and your grammar needs to be on point. you’ll need a pc/laptop and access to the internet. perfect for: people who love to write. earning potential: you’ll generally be paid or each article you complete, and it can also be based on the number of words you write. you could look to get around £10-£20 for smaller commissions, or even hundreds for longer, more in-depth articles when you’re established. top tips: make sure to proofread (at least twice) before sending your finished copy. to succeed as a freelance writer, you need to showcase your work. the best way to do this is to start a blog. you can then display a portfolio of work you’ve done and include links to published pieces. having a blog is also the best way for new and potential clients to find you. you could also look to pitch real-life stories to publications and use case studies. people sell a story to the press, but you can be the middle-person and pitch the idea. useful links: set up your profile on the fiverr marketplace to start advertising your services and take a look at grammarly (which is free!) to help with proofreading. back to top virtual assistant what do they do? as a work from home virtual assistant, you support with the admin of someone else’s business/tasks – all remotely. it can be a whole lot more than that though. you may organise people, their diary, finances, social media channels, data entry, or act as a proofreader – and that’s not even touching the surface! what do you need? you have to be mega organised yourself. many vas may never meet their clients face to face, so you must have excellent communication skills, as well as superfast broadband. you will also need to understand file sharing tools like dropbox and google drive. perfect for: a resourceful, self-starter. earning potential: full-time salaries can pay you around £25-£30,000 a year. some vas look to charge around £25+ an hour, depending on the skills and services you offer. top tips: look to hone in your skills and specialise in one area (like newsletter marketing, seo research, transcribing) which can see you attract high pay, as there are fewer people with the same skill sets. useful links: society of virtual assistants back to top audio transcribing what do they do? as a transcriber, you will listen to audio or watch videos and type up what’s been said. it could be for any range of subjects, and you could transcribe notes, caption videos (both spoken words, and describe sound effects), or subtitle videos for youtube or even for film or a brand’s marketing video. what do you need? you simply need a laptop/desktop and internet connection. you will also need excellent english language and grammar skills. it may also be a good idea to have a pair of headphones, so you don’t get distracted listening to what you need to transcribe. if you can write in a foreign language, you will get higher paid opportunities. perfect for: fast and accurate typists. earning potential: you will usually get paid per audio you listen to or per minute of the video you transcribe. (be aware that listening to one hour of audio may take you two or three hours to type up.) on average, translating subtitles for video will make you around $958 a month, while captioning and transcribing will earn you $245 a month. top tips: set up a paypal account, if you haven’t already, as you will likely be paid in that way (you’re able to transfer it straight into your bank). useful links: try a typing test here (never hurts to check if you’re fast/accurate enough!). you’ll want to be aiming for at least 45-60 wpm (and you’ll need to be accurate. back to top graphic designer what do they do? as a graphic designer, you will design and create all manner of images, graphics and typography for your clients. they could be looking for new logos for their company, brochures, packaging designs, website design, posters or banners, newsletters, social media posts and even gifs. what do you need? you will be following the brief of your clients, so you need to able to track deadlines and be a self-starter. as well as creative skills, you will need to have a passion for design. a basic computer set up won’t work so you will need to invest in software like photoshop (or similar), so you’re able to create your designs digitally. perfect for: the artistic types who can’t stop doodling earning potential: you could see earnings of around £30,000 a year. however, this will depend on your own experience and your client base. top tips: don’t stop drawing and sketching. as you’re starting up, use anything you complete to build your portfolio, so you’ve got examples of your design skills. useful links: cheap graphic design course back to top survey taker what do they do? as a survey taker, you earn money giving your opinion on a variety of topics. in one survey, you could be sharing your thoughts on the branding and design of a new savoury snack that a major brand is looking to launch, and the next you could be giving your views on banking. your feedback will help shape the way businesses, governments and community groups develop products and policies. what do you need? you need to be willing to share your honest opinions about products, as well as not talk about the information you’ve seen (as much of it is sensitive, as products are still in development) access to the internet in a must-have. most surveys allow you to complete them with access to a decent smartphone, but some do ask that you complete them via a desktop computer. perfect for: people who are happy to share their thoughts and opinions. earning potential: you get paid per survey completed and could see earnings of £200+ a month. top tips: sign up to several different survey sites, so you’ve got the opportunity to access lots of various surveys; swagbucks is a great one to get started with. useful links: best uk surveys sites to join back to top tech support what do they do? a work from home technical support job is when you offer help with the software or hardware of products. you could be providing tech support to businesses, or you could be assisting consumers with a product. you will ask questions to determine issues, and use your knowledge to walkthrough how to resolve the problem. this could be over the phone, via email or using live chat. what do you need? you will need to have strong communication skills and be able to talk about technical jargon in simple terms. you’ll need to have a good knowledge of software and hardware of the products you are supporting (however, there will generally be training). perfect for: people who are tech-savvy and a quick learner. earning potential: you could earn £9-£15 per hour but can charge more if you’ve got knowledge in a specialist area. top tips: always keep on top of the latest software and it trends to keep your skills and knowledge sharp. useful links: apple offers at home advisor jobs supporting their products, service and accessories. if you’re an expert in a particular software package or can help troubleshoot hardware, look to advertise your skills on fiverr. back to top online customer service what do they do? having a home-based customer service job, you provide advice and guidance 0n behalf of leading brands. you will generally answer inbound calls, as and when they come, and record notes from the phone call. you may also need to provide customer service via a chat facility or email. what do you need? you’ll need to have a quiet space to work (with no interruptions) as you’ll be the voice of a company. you will need a desk and chair, as well as a windows pc, corded phone, headset and phone line with broadband. you may be asked to plug your broadband in as wifi connections can’t always be trusted. you will also need to have some level of flexibility as you may be asked to work weekends. perfect for: people who can work set shifts, have excellent communication skills and have some knowledge of it as you’ll be using a phone and computer a lot. earning potential: you will get paid for each hour you work, including time spent waiting for calls and updating systems, as well as time talking to customers. some companies will take you on as an employee, but some will ask that you’re self-employed. you’ll find the hourly pay is around £9 per hour (or £10.55 per hour in london). top tips: you will get training before you start working, but make sure to revise your training notes regularly so you can answer customer questions. useful links: you may see some “opportunities” advertised online; if it seems to good to be true, it may well be. some companies do recruit directly, but there are usually roles via sensee (employed) or arise (self-employed). back to top blogger what do they do? bloggers share their opinions on a variety of subjects on their own website; some are very personal, but others can be more factual. as well as writing and editing content for the blog, a blogger will manage social media channels, business development, graphic design and seo, to name a few. what do you need? once you’ve decided on your niche and blog name, you need to start a blog, create social media channels (and grow them) and get writing. you’ll also need a bit of patience as the payoff isn’t immediate, so you need to keep the momentum and build up a readership. perfect for: oversharers, and people who find the technical side of running a website interesting (it’s not all about writing). earning potential: you can earn money through sponsored campaigns on your site, as well as on social media, through affiliate marketing and with display advertising. depending on how much work you are willing to do, earnings are uncapped, and many full-time bloggers are now making around £100,00 a year. some bloggers have also gone on to be published authors, tv presenters and even major celebrities! top tips: when you reach 25,000 page sessions, look to join the mediavine ad network as your earning potential will be far higher. useful links: start a blog from scratch | wpbeginner affiliate marketing tips back to top ironing service what do they do? while you may like ironing, there are loads of people who don’t or haven’t got the time to do it themselves. you’ve got two options: start your own ironing business from home, or find an agency or company who’ll take you on. you will then iron clothes by the bag for your customers within an agreed timescale. what do you need? setting up an ironing service where you work from home is quite easy. it might sound obvious, but you’ll need a decent iron and an ironing board (which you likely already have). on top of that, as it will look professional, have a supply of quality hangers to return the items. you’ll also need to get professional indemnity insurance, just in case you accidentally burn through something. create a facebook page with useful information and client recommendations. then, join local selling pages and advertise your services. gumtree allows you to advertise for free too. perfect for: people who are comfortable standing for long periods. it’s also best for non-smokers as you won’t get repeat customers if clothes are returned smelly. earning potential: the amount you make all depends on how many regular clients you get. the most common way to charge is per item or by weight of a bag. the average charge per item ironed (a shirt) is around £1.50, or per weight of a bag of clothes is around £5-£5.50 per kg. you’ll want to charge individually for items like shirts/blouses as they take more time. (it’s best to research in your local area to see what the competition charges). top tips: offer to iron friends and family’s clothes for free in exchange for some testimonials. also, offer a refer a friend discount to help build up a client base. useful links: business insurance for ironers back to top esl teacher what do they do? as an english as a second language (esl) teacher, you support people (both adults and children) from all over the world who are looking to improve their english language skills. what do you need? you will need to be fluent in english, and some people will want you to be degree educated. you will need a good internet connection as well as a skype account so you can video chat with your students. non-native english speakers are looking for people to help practice their conversational skills, so it would be good to have plans for each of the “lessons” and a way to test and record results to provide feedback. perfect for: people who have patience and are good at communicating. earning potential: you could look to charge around $25 per hour. top tips: look to take a celta or tefl training course to improve your knowledge and learn tutoring skills. useful links: online tefl course back to top travel agent what do they do? as a home-based travel agency, you will usually work for a host agency and find holiday deals for people looking to take a break. while you may think people book their jollies online, there are still loads of people who are looking for a personalised approach when it comes to booking a holiday abroad or in the uk. what do you need? you’ll need a good internet connection, phone line, website, printer and knowledge of the world. you can choose to specialise in one area of travel (like business travel, or weddings, disney, cruises etc.) or you can be more generalised, but you will need to become very familiar with the types of holiday you sell so you don’t disappoint your customers. it would be a good idea if you’ve studied a btec in tourism in the past, so you have some background knowledge, but it’s not essential. perfect for: people who love to travel, enjoy networking and are great at finding a bargain. earning potential: you receive a commission on each holiday sold, and earnings are uncapped. working full time (as self-employed) you could look to make around £32,000 per year. top tips: do your research on host agencies to see what level of commission you need to pay back/if it’s a franchise, and how much training and support they can offer you. useful links: institute of travel & tourism back to top how much should you charge as a freelancer? it can be hard to work out what freelance rates you should charge your clients. be sure to do some research, don’t undersell your skills and talent and you need to consider extra things. if a company pays you, they take care of a lot of extra things as part of your regular salary. being self-employed means you’ll need to factor this in yourself. included in your freelance rate (whether you charge per hour/day/project), be sure to make sure you account for: holiday pay sick pay maternity/paternity pay national insurance/tax mileage business insurance equipment, pc/phone/broadband your home utilities, water, gas/electric, rent declaring your income congrats on securing a new work from home job. now you’re working you need to make sure that you declare any new income to hmrc. it is straightforward to do. head over to the hmrc site and register as self-employed. keep records as the months roll by for what you’re earning and your expenses. you will need this to complete an end of year self-assessment. how to manage your time you may think that a job that allows you to work from home is a breeze – well, it can be, but you to lose track of time and not get anything done. running a home business is not like working for a company. you don’t have a boss breathing down your neck, and you won’t get pulled into the hr office if you’re late or spend too long on a coffee break. it’s really easy to look at the washing up next to the sink or think it’s a good idea to put a load of washing on. yes, this may save you time later on, but you’re filling up your day with chores instead of making money. one of the best things you can do is get up, get showered/dressed and act like it’s a “proper” job. if you lounge about in pjs and work from a laptop in bed, things will start to feel too relaxed and may slip. make lists, working through your tasks and go for a walk if you need to let off steam or you find yourself distracted. look to find someone locally (or even online) who work from home and meet up once a week (in person or via skype). it can help to have an accountability buddy so you can share what you’ve been doing (or not been doing) – it can help you keep on track and stay focused. also, it’s essential to give yourself time off. set aside time to spend with kids or family and have chill-out time, or you could find you never turn off and get burn out. why we don’t mention mlms mlm stands for multi-level marketing. you’ve likely seen people offering you products via social media or even your friends trying to sell you the latest in “something”. you may recognise mlm brands like utility warehouse, herbalife, avon, scentsy, but you can also see products like nail wraps, greetings cards, books, diet drinks, skin care, cosmetics, candles, bath bombs, kitchen gadgets, and even bras! while “networking” and word of mouth selling is one way to make money, it’s all about building a team. to make any decent money, you need to get people to sign up to be part of your team and sell too. the recruiter earns money off everyone in their team (which is why they are so keen to sign you up!). it may seem like an easy win: work from home, set your own hours, don’t worry about childcare costs, be a “mum boss”, and the person who tells you “we fund all our holidays and got a free car“, but it’s not always like that. for many of these companies, you will need to pay out for set up costs/a starter kit. however, some 99% of people who join mlm companies lose money. i’m not saying don’t try an mlm if you really want to. please just go into it with open eyes and having done your research first. back to top ricky willis ricky willis is the original skint dad. a money-making enthusiast, father, and husband to naomi. he is always looking for unique ways to earn a little extra. skintdad.co.uk/ * to ensure skint dad remains completely free to use, this post may contain affiliate links. contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about