barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up life 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who’d chew through drywall share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest melissa shadrick author shares share tweet pin i absolutely adore my dog, but he has a very ~active~ mind and might chew a table leg off if there’s nothing to do. boredom is the enemy, and we will leave no dog behind when one of us—*ahem* me—is lacking a bit of playtime energy. the best dog chews last longer than 30 seconds, taste great, and be lower in calories. there’s also something each of us (yes, me and my dog) agree on: always supervise the fun–when some large chews get down to a not-so-manageable size, the last thing i want is for him to accidentally choke or end up swallowing it and have it cause issues. safety comes first, and chances are your dog will go bonkers for any of these 11 durable chews: best for an active pupper: peanut butter protein bar power up your pup with this peanut butter protein bar! made with real peanut butter, carob, and both potato and pea protein, this protein-packed snack is the perfect chew for the duo always on the go. tough and filling, this chew is a sweet treat that’ll leave your dog happy and preoccupied. another plus- this protein-packed treat smells super sweet, no stinky breath or paws for your pupper! next time you find yourself out on the town and in need of a little distraction for the furry friend in your life, this easy-carry peanut butter protein bar has your back. enjoy all at once or break in half for twice the fun- with a cut down the middle for easy dividing! why we love it: – high protein – easy on the go – no bad smell! buy here, $3 best for most pups: braided bully/pizzle sticks chances are you’re at least a little familiar with this one, and i won’t deny that with some dogs an ordinary bully stick might not last super long. that’s why i highly highly recommend the next best thing—three bully sticks braided together into one monster of a good time. in theory, this bad boy will last three times as long, and the ones i’ve linked to below are low odor, free of preservatives, hormones, or other additives, and are (like all bully sticks) a fantastic source of protein. why we love it: – stink free! – longer lasting than ordinary bully sticks – high protein, low calories devoured by: belle the boston terrier buy here, $29.95 (6” 6-pack) best for dogs watching their weight: benebone chews attention! these are not edible—i repeat, benebones are made of crazy-strong nylon and flavored with food-grade bacon, peanut butter, and rotisserie chicken. while these super tough “chews” are meant to be chewed and not swallowed, the dogs in my family go absolutely nuts for them. and, get this—they’re still around for weeks intact. plus, no calories. the wishbone-shaped option is designed specifically for a secure grip by paws, and the dental chew version is grooved and double-ended for the ultimate cleaning sesh. both are available in mini and regular sizes with the former also sold in jumbo form. as with any snack or toy, be sure to remove this from your dog if he appears to be ingesting it or if it’s ready for a replacement. make sure to keep an eye on your playful pup as he gnaws away at this fun low-cal chew! why we love it: – sticks around much longer than an edible chew – comes in various sizes – different flavor options buy here, $10–$19 (mini–jumbo) best for pup parents on a budget: beef trachea chews dogs like gross things—if you know what bully sticks are, then you understand. my pup loves beef trachea, and it’s a huge bonus that they’re chock full of glucosamine and chondroitin for joint health. it will typically take her at least a half hour to get through one of these; they’ll last even longer if you smear a little peanut butter on the inside so they have to lick it off first. on the stink front, i can confidently say i’ve never had a smelly trachea, though some do complain of an odor. they tend to be a little oily or waxy as a trade-off and might be best given on a kitchen floor or outside. i have never had issues with tracheas staining the carpet. like many chews, these can also be treated as “dental chews” since they act like a very strange looking toothbrush. why we love it: – contain glucosamine & chondroitin for joint health – good source of protein – tube-shaped, so they can be stuffed with other goodies devoured by: cosmo the boxer buy here, $12.95 (6” 3-pack) best for the life of the paw-rty: chew the brew bottle opener this bacon flavored nylon chew is a real bottle opener! your pup will love chewing on this bacon-infused chew, and the super-durable non-bacon ingredient (there’s only one) will keep even heavy chewers busy for ages. these are not edible- made of crazy-strong nylon and flavored with food-grade bacon this toy is the perfect long-lasting chew for the super chewer in your life. why we love it: – sticks around much longer than an edible chew – no stink! – practical… its a real bottle opener! buy here, $14 other chews we love: water buffalo horns like antlers and other bone-type chews, buffalo horns are low in calories, high in protein, and last quite a long time. luckily, unlike cooked bones (which i would never recommend giving to your dog, no exceptions), these will not splinter as they’re chewed. another awesome benefit—there’s no odor! i’ve never experienced carpet staining or any issues with water buffalo horns, and they stay “alive” in our house for weeks to months on end. as always, never leave your dog alone with any kind of treat or chew. buy here, $19.95 (2-pack) peanut butter pawplexer made from the same super tough nylon your pup loves to gnaw, and packed with real peanut butter flavor, the pawplexer is already among the top ranks for our most vigorous chompers. the pawplexer features a space in the center to put a jerky or bully stick, so that the benebone rocks as your pup chews if they don’t hold it down. this long-lasting chew will keep both you and the pupper happy for hours of preoccupied play. buy here, $16.00 deer antler bring out your pup’s inner wolf with this all natural deer antler. don’t be alarmed when your pup howls during full moons! this 100% naturally shed deer antler is the perfect chew to preoccupy your pup. this chew is low in fat and high in minerals to help support healthy joint and bones, and great for keeping teeth clean! buy here, $9.50-$32.50 (small-large) himalayan yak chew yak milk, cow milk, salt, and lime juice are the only ingredients in these ancient himalayan snacks. they wear down over time as your dog gnaws and are good for keeping plaque at bay, though when they get small enough (down to an inch or so) you’ll want to take them away. don’t throw it in the trash just yet though! if you pop the little piece in your microwave for about 30 seconds it will puff up like a piece of popcorn and come out nice and crunchy. it will be hot, so don’t give it to your dog right away; once it cools they should be able to munch it like a regular treat. buy here, $10.41 (3.5oz 3–4-pack) shuck n’ chuck corn cob now i’m not going to make a corny joke… but this durable rubber cob strung on a ballistic nylon rope is the perfect toy for the super chewer in your life. with the crazy crinkle husks on top, your pup will be all ears! buy here, $14 raw beef marrow bones these are a tad difficult to ship due to their frozenness and rawness, but any local pet supply store should have a freezer stocked with vacuum-sealed marrow bones. my personal pick is the beef marrow bone from primal pet foods. for a dog new to raw snacks, i would limit them to one bone per week, though primal advises that you can offer up to two. these raw bones are not meant to disappear, meaning once your dog scrapes out all the marrow and any leftover meat left on the bone, discard the bone itself. unlike a “stuffed” bone from the pet store, you won’t want to leave a raw one lying around too long after the fact. out of anything and everything, my pup would do backflips for these. buy here: check out your local pet supply store or call ahead to see if they have their freezers stocked! now you can take a deep breath and catch up on that netflix show you’ve been meaning to watch, and won’t have an eager nose poking you in the leg to play. an occupied dog is most definitely a happy one—go forth and chews your chew! featured image via @lolabarksdale/instagram looking for tough dog toys? the super chewer box is made for pups who deserve a challenge. every month, receive two fluff-free toys, two full-size bags of all-natural treats, and two delicious chews. sign up here and get one month free on any 6-or 12-month plan! (edited) for more, check out these articles! 11 of the best-rated dog treats to ever come in a barkboxwhat are the best dog treats for bad breath?14 resilient dog toys tough enough for your monster of destruction7 freeze-dried treats that seriously picky dogs will love14 gifts for dogs with a mean case of toilet tongue comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up melissa shadrick author health considerations every dog owner should keep in mind 13 best gifts for dog lovers under $10 22 best gifts for dog lovers on amazon 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go