skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes the verge homepage follow the verge online: follow the verge on facebook follow the verge on twitter rss feed (all stories on the verge) log in or sign up log in sign up site search search search the verge main menu tech reviews science creators entertainment video features podcasts newsletters store more tech video amazon apple facebook google microsoft samsung tesla ai cars cybersecurity mobile policy privacy scooters all tech reviews phones laptops headphones cameras tablets smartwatches speakers drones accessories buying guides how-to’s deals more from verge reviews science video space nasa spacex health energy environment all science creators youtube instagram adobe kickstarter tumblr art club cameras photography what’s in your bag? all creators entertainment film tv games fortnite game of thrones books comics music all entertainment video features podcasts newsletters store ✕ filed under: tl;dr us & world politics 11 photos of nyc’s naked trump statue new, 217 comments as much trump as you can handle by kaitlyn tiffany and james bareham aug 18, 2016, 2:06pm edt source the washington post share this story share this on facebook share this on twitter share all sharing options share all sharing options for: 11 photos of nyc’s naked trump statue linkedin reddit pocket flipboard email james bareham / the verge five identical statues of a nude donald trump have appeared overnight on street corners in san francisco, los angeles, cleveland, seattle, and new york city. so, the verge ran down to union square in nyc to see as much of fake nude trump as our eyes could possibly tolerate (photos below!). the washington post reports that the anarchist collective indecline is responsible for the statues, and are calling this project "the emperor has no balls." the name is ostensibly a reference to the famous fairytale "the emperor’s new clothes," in which a narcissistic emperor gets conned into strolling amongst his people in the nude. mr. robot fans might liken the stunt to the one pulled by the show’s anti-capitalist fsociety, who symbolically removed the testicles from the iconic wall street bull statue. an anonymous spokesperson from indecline told the post, "like it or not, trump is a larger-than-life figure in world culture at the moment. looking back in history, that’s how those figures were memorialized and idolized in their time — with statues." the emperor has no balls. los angeles #indecline . . . . . . (photo: @birdmanphotos) a photo posted by indecline (@indeclineofficial) on aug 18, 2016 at 9:21am pdt this isn’t the first time this group has gone after trump. protesting several comments that trump made about mexican immigrants being "rapists," they spray-painted a caricature of trump with a ball gag in his mouth on a border wall in tijuana, accompanied by the phrase "rape trump!" indecline hired los angeles-based artist ginger, who specializes in haunted houses and horror movies, to make the statues. you can read more from ginger about the project over at the washington post, and take a closer look at the final product below. our photographer, james bareham, arrived on the scene shortly before the party was busted up by the busters at the city parks department. update: the parks department provided a statement to gothamist, saying "nyc parks stands firmly against any unpermitted erection in city parks, no matter how small." photographs by james bareham update: august 18th, 4:48 pm est. updated to include a statement from new york city parks department more from the verge good deals samsung’s galaxy s10 plus is discounted for a limited time plus, deals on console games and raspberry pi cbs all access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge star trek: picard perfect for your next social distancing tv marathon sony’s wh-1000xm3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at amazon plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket the new macbook air and ipad pro are already discounted on amazon both will release tomorrow, march 25th more in good deals sign up for the newsletter processor a newsletter about computers email (required) by signing up, you agree to our privacy notice and european users agree to the data transfer policy. subscribe loading comments... chorus terms of use privacy notice cookie policy do not sell my info communications preferences licensing faq accessibility platform status contact tip us community guidelines about ethics statement vox media vox media vox media logo. advertise with us jobs @ vox media © 2020 vox media, llc. all rights reserved share this story twitter facebook