barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up travel 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest greyceli marin writer shares share tweet pin as doting dog parents, it’s not enough that our dogs can accompany us on airplanes, in stores, and to restaurants, we’ve figured out a way to bring them with us on boats, too! although most major cruise lines only welcome service animals to board their ships, there are plenty of other options for fun across the seas. so be sure to check out these ports of call on your epic summer road trip! 1. queen mary ii–new york & englandp british cruise line cunard’s queen mary ii is “the most magnificent ocean liner ever built,” probably because it’s the only one of their ships that is dog friendly! qm2 has a phenomenal kennel program on all trips between new york and southhampton (south coast of england). the pups are closely monitored around the clock by a kennel master who walks and feeds them. visiting hours throughout the day let you check up on your pup and spend plenty of play time together! next trip: find and book a cruise online! 2. the goodtime ii–seattle, washington for 65 years now, seattle’s argosy cruises has stuck to their christmas ship festival tradition, the largest holiday floating parade in the world. last year, they added a very special ship to their caravan. the goodtime ii joined the fun as the first dog-friendly addition to the holiday tradition (rhyme totally intended). pups and their humans enjoyed champagne toasts, doggie hors d’oeuvres provided by the dining dog café, and pictures with santa paws! next trip: december 6, 2015 3. dog day on elliott bay–seattle, washington citydog magazine hosts an annual summer muttmixer with argosy cruises, like a booze cruise for pups (without the booze). the scenic cruise takes passengers to blake island, a seattle state park with 400 acres of uninhabited dog-friendly beaches and trails. dog day on elliott bay then treats its furry passengers to a healthy box lunch of turkey, veggies, and treats provided by the dining dog café. humans are not to worry, they’re just as pampered, too; the lunch menu includes grilled pork ribs, kobe burgers, a famous potato salad, and more. next trip: july 26, 2015 4. potomac riverboat canine cruise–alexandria, virginia the potomac riverboat company in alexandria, virginia has an hour-long sightseeing tour of alexandria’s seaport. last halloween they made things a little more interesting with a “bark or treat” halloween canine cruise, where humans got a laugh out of a bunch of pups in hilarious costumes. next trips: july 11th, august 8th, september 12th 2015 5. bow wow brunch cruise–san diego, california san diego’s hornblower cruises are a local favorite, and it’s not just because of their stuff-your-face-friendly dining cruises. the special edition bow wow brunch cruise includes all the amenities of the human brunch cruise plus an additional doggie buffet! with a 2 hour ride along the san diego bay, bottomless drinks and coffee (for hoomans), and an all-you-can-eat gourmet brunch buffet (for hoomans & pups), the bow wow cruise is the most longed-for sunday funday of the year! next trip: october 18, 2015 6. pet day on the bay–san diego, california hornblower cruises & events hosted its 14th annual pet day on the bay this year. the fun-filled cruise benefits the helen hoodward animal center, a local nonprofit that cares for injured and orphaned animals. the hour-long trip, sponsored by petco, featured expert dog trainers sharing helpful handling tips, a doggie treat bar filled with tempting and mouthwatering treats, and lots of socialization! next trip: may 2016 7. mercury’s canine cruise— chicago, illinois are you and your pup book worms? do you love learning about stuff? then the mercury skyline canine cruise is the cruise for you. on the skyline queen, you and your pup can enjoy a ride alongside the beautiful chicago skyline as a cruise narrator highlights the city’s dog-friendly places and elaborates on the history of chicago (you can translate to doggie-speak as you go). next trip: every sunday beginning july 8, 2015 8. scenic cruise st. augustine–st. augustine, florida st. augustine, florida is a sight to see, so they’ve got scenic cruises to help you get around without the hassle of asking for directions. while we’re on the topic, all the scenic cruises are dog friendly! this ship has been cruising since the early 1900’s, you can be sure they’ll show you the most picturesque parts of town. the best part is that you don’t have to leave your pup behind! well-behaved dogs are welcome to board on a leash. next trip: april 1 through september 13 2015 9. cruises on the bay–annapolis & baltimore, maryland cruises on the bay in maryland consist of two sightseeing boat tours in annapolis and baltimore. both cruises are dog-friendly and dogs ride free! both city’s cruises are educational, providing a narrative to accompany the beautiful sights, and they’ve even got a full bar! (for humans). let your pup choose if he’d rather cruise for 45 or 90 minutes, and make sure to take plenty of snacks for the road, or in this case, water. next trip: year-round! check the 2015 calendar here. 10. dog gone sailing charters–provincetown, massachusetts captain rory is as much a dog lover as any of us, that’s why her ship the moondance ii welcomes furry friends aboard. the intimate excursions allow up to six hooman passengers and their sea-loving pups. they offer sunrise/sunset trips, shrimp sails, half days, full days, and even whale watching! the sunset cruises are their most romantic. you can cuddle up with your pup and enjoy the beautiful bay and calming waters. next trip: whenever you wish! book a trip here. 11. hy-line cruises–cape cod, massachusetts all of hy-line’s island-bound ferries welcome pets for free! these cruises are perfect for those who want to share spectacular view of massachussetts’ cape cod and its several islands. if traveling cap cod with your pup isn’t cool enough, the ships are equipped with a full bar with mixed drinks and snacks! the islands all offer unique experiences; including shopping havens, quaint and quiet places, and plenty of green grass for strolling. leashed pups are welcome at no cost (cheaper than kids!) next trip: it’s up to you! book a trip here. featured image via @katecapuzzo comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up greyceli marin writer why do dogs give us side-eye (aka whale eye)? if dogs have no sense of time, how do they know when it's their birthday? does your dog know when you're naked? 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go