wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » 11 tips to optimize your blog posts for seo like a pro (checklist) 11 tips to optimize your blog posts for seo like a pro (checklist) last updated on august 28th, 2019 by editorial staff 958 shares share tweet share pin many of our readers have asked us to share tips on how to optimize blogs posts for seo, so they can get better search rankings. the best time to optimize your blog content for seo is when you are creating it, but you can always go back and improve your old articles as well. blog seo is important because it helps you consistently get more traffic to your website. there are many things you can do to optimize your blog posts for seo. in this article, we will share our best blog seo tips to help you optimize your blog posts for seo like a pro. these are the tips that we use on our own blogs, which gets millions of visitors from search engines. 1. plan your content with proper keyword research many beginners just use their best guesses to write about topics they feel that their users would be interested in. you don’t need to rely on blind guesses, especially when you can do keyword research to find out exactly what your users are looking for. keyword research is a technique used by content creators and seo experts. it helps you discover topics your users are interested in based on the search engine data. you can then use these keywords to plan your content strategy. this will ensure that you write about topics that people are actually looking for, and it’s a great way to find new blog post ideas. we recommend using keyword research tools like semrush or ahrefs. they offer in-depth keyword data, competition analysis, keyword position tracking, and tons of other useful features. if you are using semrush, then you would want to check out their seo writing assistant tool. it helps you discover lsi and related keywords, readability, language tone, and average article length. for detailed instructions, see our article on how to do keyword research for your blog posts. 2. find semantic keywords for your focus keyword after you have done your keyword research and discovered keyword ideas, it is time to pick one that has the highest search volume and low competition. this will be your focus keyword. it is the search phrase that your users are most likely to look for. if you are using the yoast seo plugin, then you can set the focus keyword in your article’s seo settings. this would allow you to see how effectively you have used it in your article. next, you need to find out the latent semantic indexing (lsi) keywords. these are the searches related to your focus keyword. the easiest way to find them is to simply enter your focus keyword in google search and scroll down to the bottom of results. there you’ll find them listed as ‘related searches’. you need to incorporate as many of these keywords in your content, so you can have the most complete content for users. it’s very important that you don’t try to stuff them in your content. this would look odd to your users and search engines are pretty good at detecting keyword stuffing. 3. write an effective blog post title the title of your blog post is extremely important for search rankings. a good blog post title makes your article more relevant to the search query. more importantly, it motivates users to actually click on your article when they see it in search results. you can make your blog post title more seo friendly by using your focus keyword in the title. aside from adding your focus keyword, we also recommend making your headline catchy and click-worthy. that’s because click through rate (ctr) plays an important role in seo. there are several formulas to write effective headlines. the one that still works is called emv or emotional marketing value. this formula recommends using power words that trigger specific emotional responses in your audience. there are online tools like emv headline analyzer which help you calculate your title’s emv score. for more tips, see this article on headlines that went viral and how to copy their success in your own articles. 4. make internal linking a habit once you have blogged for a while, you will have enough content that you would want users to read. with internal linking, you can send new readers to check out your older relevant posts. internal linking is a great way to develop a contextual relationship between your new and old posts. it also allows you to pass relevant link juice to your older articles. wordpress makes it easy to search for your old posts right inside the post editor. simply select the text that you want to link and then click on the link button. a text pop-up will appear below your selected words. you can start typing to search for the older articles that you want to link here. making internal linking a habit will make sure that your on-page seo is good, and that your older articles continue to get new links. often beginners make the mistake of doing 1-way internal linking where they link to older posts from new articles. you can and should also go back to edit older posts to link to your new articles for maximum benefits. 5. add images and videos to your blog posts search engines often rank engaging content higher in search results. images and videos are far more engaging than plain text. you want to make sure that your blog posts contain images between paragraphs. when adding images, you want to be careful about image copyrights. often beginners copy images from other sites to use on their site, and this can get you in legal trouble if you do so without proper permissions. don’t worry, there are plenty of places where you can find royalty free images to use in your blog posts. you can also use your own original photographs or use websites like canva to create engaging graphics. make sure that you optimize your images for seo. see our tutorial on how to optimize images for search engines for detailed instructions. videos are even more engaging than images. you can convert your blog posts into videos by creating slideshows, vlogs, or experiment with other formats. however, you should never directly upload videos to your blog posts. wordpress is not optimized to serve videos, and your shared hosting service can’t handle them. we recommend uploading your videos to youtube. it is the second most popular search engine, and the second largest social media platform right after facebook. see our article on how to embed videos in wordpress for more details. 6. add a meta description to your blog post the meta description is an html meta tag that you can add to any page. its purpose is to provide a short description of your article for search engines and other crawlers. some seo experts believe that the meta description tag on a page has become irrelevant. however, many others would disagree. at wpbeginner, we recommend using the meta description for all of your posts. a good meta description can explain a lot more about an article. social media websites like facebook, twitter, and linkedin also display it when your articles are shared on those platforms. since now you know that people are going to be reading your meta descriptions, you want to make sure that it’s helpful. you also want to make sure that you at least mention your focus keyword once in the meta description for search purposes. the character limit for meta description is 155 characters. try to stay within that limit or your meta description will be truncated after 155 characters. you also want to make sure that you use the focus keyword earlier in the meta description rather than later. to add meta description, you need to scroll down to the yoast seo meta box on your post edit screen. 7. make your articles easier to read readability is an important factor considered by search engines. articles that are easier to read often rank higher than articles that are not user friendly. computer and mobile screens are still not an optimal platform for reading. this is why most users just scan through articles. in fact, studies found that users spend less than a second to decide whether they want to stay on a page or leave. that’s a very short time for you to convince the user to stay and scroll through. by improving readability, you can make it possible for your users to quickly scan an article. you can improve readability by using shorter sentences, smaller paragraphs, punctuation, headings, and bulleted lists. we recommend adding white space around text and use images to make your text look easier on eyes. you can use tools like grammarly, which allows you to check grammar, punctuation, and spelling on the fly. it also gives suggestions to improve the readability of your articles. yoast seo plugin also comes with a built-in readability checker. it shows the flesch reading score of your article under ‘readability analysis’ tab. for more on this topic, see our article on how to improve the readability score of your blog posts. 8. use categories and tags to organize content categories and tags help you sort your content not only for yourself, but for the readers and search engines. the problem is that many wordpress beginners often end up using them incorrectly. if you think about your website as a book, then categories would be the table of contents and tags will be the index part of the book. categories are used to divide your content into major topics discussed on your blog. tags, on the other hand, are the topics discussed in an individual blog post. to learn more, see our beginner’s guide on using categories and tags for maximum seo benefit. 9. aim to be the featured snippet in the search result google has been trying to answer user questions as quickly as possible. as part of this effort, they have introduced the featured result or answer box. this is the highlighted search result that appears on the top. google generates a custom snippet from the article’s content highlighting the part that their algorithms believe to be the answer of user’s query. according to research conducted by advanced web ranking, answer boxes secure almost 32.3% ctr. this makes them immensely important for your seo strategy. there is no specific set of instructions provided by google regarding how they would pick the featured snippet. their recommendation is to improve your content and make sure that it offers the information users are seeking. however at wpbeginner, we have created helpful tips based on our research that will help you appear in google answer boxes with your blog posts. 10. make your blog posts comprehensive search engines love articles that cover a topic with great detail. this is why we asked you to gather the semantically related keywords (lsi keywords) as part of your content planning step. these related keywords give you an idea of different variations of user searches regarding that particular topic. by covering those keywords in your article, you would be able to make it more comprehensive, informative, and useful. you should use headings and subheadings to include those keywords and try to cover as much ground as you could. aside from lsi keywords, another tip to create complete content is to type your desired keyword and then switch to image search. you will see topic bubbles with a variety of keywords. we recommend including these when creating your content, so you can have the most comprehensive content. 11. optimize older blog posts many beginners tend to forget about a blog post after they have published it. in fact, you are not done optimizing your blog post for seo once it is published. here are some things that you need to do after publishing your blog post: promote it on social media – promote your blog post across your social media profiles. you can even automate this task by using ifttt to share your content. add internal links – once you have published a post, you can go back to relevant old articles and add a link to your new blog post. this gives your new articles link juice while also allowing users to discover it more easily. track search rankings – you have optimized a post for seo, but how do you keep track of its search rankings? see our guide on how to track search rankings for your blog posts for instructions. we recommend optimizing old posts on a regular basis, so you can continue to improve your rankings. we hope this article helped you optimize your blog posts for seo like a pro. need more tips to promote your content? see our article on how to get more traffic to your blog posts. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 958 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 50 commentsleave a reply shariful islam says: mar 23, 2020 at 6:01 am thank you, it’s very helpful reply wpbeginner support says: mar 24, 2020 at 8:32 am you’re welcome, glad our guide was helpful reply vinay james says: mar 11, 2020 at 9:10 pm thank your somuch for your valuable content reply wpbeginner support says: mar 12, 2020 at 8:45 am you’re welcome, glad you liked our content reply chetan hedage says: nov 4, 2019 at 1:04 am your blog is very nice thanks for sharing information reply wpbeginner support says: nov 4, 2019 at 10:39 am you’re welcome, glad you find our content helpful reply samuel nyiro says: oct 29, 2019 at 5:45 am a very helpful article for wordpress users like me. would recommend it to anyone looking for asistance regarding the topic. thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 29, 2019 at 10:14 am glad you would recommend our content reply alan banaqeeb says: sep 27, 2019 at 11:41 pm wp beginner is my first resource to learn everything about wordpress blogging. thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 30, 2019 at 10:03 am glad our content can be helpful reply jonson says: sep 17, 2019 at 1:45 pm i feel good after subscribing, as i am very new to wordpress. i get to read good articles on wordpress. this article is also very good. thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 18, 2019 at 9:28 am glad our articles can be helpful reply dina soueidan says: sep 17, 2019 at 11:53 am i was so tired of hearing about seo and comprehend nothing which made want to hear even less about it ! this is absolutely one of the most readable, comprehensive, step by step guide that even a novice like me can follow and more importantly implement. thank you! reply wpbeginner support says: sep 18, 2019 at 9:20 am glad we could help make it understandable reply kevin walton says: sep 17, 2019 at 11:50 am excellent tutorial as i’ve come to expect from my short time with the wpbeginners team. please keep up the great work it is such a fantastic trustworthy resource. thanks. kevin reply wpbeginner support says: sep 18, 2019 at 9:18 am thank you, glad you’ve found our tutorials helpful reply tiriumalkumar says: aug 17, 2019 at 11:24 am thank you so much for you valuable content about seo tips keep sharing related information reply wpbeginner support says: aug 19, 2019 at 11:09 am you’re welcome, glad our article was helpful reply anishiiadm iiadm says: aug 3, 2019 at 1:49 am as a matter of first importance, i might want to you rock for composing such informative content. i arrived, what i needed. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 5, 2019 at 11:26 am glad you like our content reply anwitasinha says: jun 11, 2019 at 1:55 am thanks for this information. it is an amazing tip to optimize blogs for seo and explained in detailed. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 11, 2019 at 10:21 am you’re welcome, glad you like our content reply modu yusuf says: jun 3, 2019 at 8:24 am i’m new in this aspects but now i grab the ideas, i’m looking forward for more detailed article like this. thank you reply wpbeginner support says: jun 3, 2019 at 1:31 pm glad you like our content reply chris mullane says: jun 3, 2019 at 7:19 am hello, i enjoyed reading your great informative post. got many new ideas and tips and surely apply. im going to be using tip number 2 for sure also can you give any more advise about not uploading video direct in your blog as i was about to this. many thanks chris reply wpbeginner support says: jun 3, 2019 at 1:23 pm you can see our in-depth article on why you shouldn’t upload them to your site here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/why-you-should-never-upload-a-video-to-wordpress/ reply m says: may 29, 2019 at 7:03 am very comprehensive article. thanks very much! reply wpbeginner support says: may 29, 2019 at 10:30 am you’re welcome reply abdullah malik says: may 28, 2019 at 9:10 pm technically good … but what’s new in it? it’s the same thing which most of the are doing … reply wpbeginner support says: may 29, 2019 at 10:14 am seo doesn’t always require something new, that’s part of why we created this article reply alfasani says: may 28, 2019 at 9:03 pm nice, mashallah reply wpbeginner support says: may 29, 2019 at 10:12 am glad you like our content reply bec says: may 28, 2019 at 6:32 pm thank you for this great detailed article! so many things to start implementing to improve my seo toolkit now. reply wpbeginner support says: may 29, 2019 at 10:09 am you’re welcome, glad our article could be helpful reply fr william ozuluonye says: may 28, 2019 at 5:12 pm this is a very informative article. it really provided satisfying answers to my questions. thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: may 29, 2019 at 10:07 am glad our article could be helpful reply jackie says: may 28, 2019 at 4:21 pm man all great tips but each one has it’s own set of instructions. i’m not trying to look for shortcuts, truly, but as a newer blogger, even with a previous career in tech, it’s soooooooo overwhelming. reply wpbeginner support says: may 29, 2019 at 10:07 am it can certainly seem overwhelming but as you get acclimated to the tasks they will become easier to do reply paty says: may 28, 2019 at 4:21 pm two questions: how do i add internal links – once you have published a post, you can go back to relevant old articles and add a link to your new blog post.? can i prevent old [obsolete] posts from appearing in “you may also like” / thnak you reply wpbeginner support says: may 29, 2019 at 10:04 am you would add the internal links the same way you would add links to another site. for the you may also like, it would depend on what you’re using for that display for what options you have available. reply m nava says: may 28, 2019 at 2:24 pm you are the only real help out there for us newbies and i thank you for being there. that said, it is really, really hard to enter the blog business (actual business or no) via wordpress because there is no person to call. this means the time investment sifting through youtubes and your emails is huge, with very little in terms of answers for specific questions at the end of the sift. your email on search engine optimization is generally helpful for writing whether or not one is in business for money, so thank you for the email alerts to your blog! reply wpbeginner support says: may 29, 2019 at 9:55 am glad our tutorials can help, sadly we do not have a recommendation for people wanting phone support at this time. reply mo says: may 28, 2019 at 12:50 pm this is an amazing article that can easily be converted into a workshop, very well organized, informative and valuable reply wpbeginner support says: may 28, 2019 at 3:23 pm glad you like our content reply g polasa says: may 28, 2019 at 11:51 am exactly what i am looking for in the wild wide web! this article has enhanced my basic knowledge of seo and keyword search. thank you for inspiring me to write articles on the subject which i love and hope that are useful for the people who search for. reply wpbeginner support says: may 28, 2019 at 3:22 pm awesome, glad our article could help reply usman says: may 28, 2019 at 11:46 am nice article in detailed. thanks wpbeginner! reply wpbeginner support says: may 28, 2019 at 3:14 pm you’re welcome reply praf says: may 28, 2019 at 9:40 am hello, i enjoyed reading your great informative post. got many new ideas and tips and surely apply. the concept of ifttt is great and it will save lot of timing to do other productive work. thanks for sharing such nice article. have a nice day! praf reply wpbeginner support says: may 28, 2019 at 3:15 pm you’re welcome, glad you found our content helpful reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) wp coupons and deals coupon get 30% off on wp coupons and deals wordpress coupon plugin. siteground coupon get 70% off siteground wordpress hosting. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.