barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up life 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest brandon rhoads discover editor (aka the science nerd) shares share tweet pin ‘tis the season for sharing and caring. but if you care for your dog, here are 11 things you should not share with your four-legged love this thanksgiving. note: this list comes from the aspca’s list of hazardous foods for dogs. of course, some dogs have stomachs of steel and can eat everything from light bulbs to onion sandwiches, but this list is for folks who want to be extra careful. 🙂 11 foods your pup should avoid this thanksgiving 1. salty turkey skin your thanksgiving turkey will be basted in a number of tasty herbs and spices, like sage or dill, which can upset some dogs’ stomachs. the fatty skin, added salty brine, and added butter isn’t very good for dogs either. when they start throwing the puppy dog eyes, you can give those pups a tiny piece of turkey breast though! 2. turkey bones when the turkey’s gone, the bones that remain are not a good chew toy for your dog. they are brittle choking hazards that easily splinter if chewed. 3. stuffing this thanksgiving staple often contains onions, which are toxic to dogs. if your pup ingests a lot of onions they can develop a condition called hemolytic anemia which can damage their red blood cells. 4. garlic bread garlic is an allium, a member of the onion family. if your dog eats a lot of garlic it can really hurt them. also– if you have a cat in your family, garlic is significantly more toxic to cats. 5. fruit salad many fruit salads contain grapes which are some of the most toxic things a dog can eat. unfortunately, grape and raisin toxicity can be fatal for your dog because it can lead to acute kidney failure. 6. sausage sausage can be dangerous for your pup because it is more than meat. many sausages also contain onions, garlic, and spices that can upset your dog’s stomach. 7. pecan pie nuts are another one of those items to add to your pup’s “do not eat this” list. nuts, while delicious to dogs, can cause gastric intestinal issues or obstructions. if a nut, like a walnut or pecan, has mold it can contain tremorgenic mycotoxins (toxic chemical products produced by fungi) which can cause seizures or neurological symptoms. 8. booze whether wine or beer, alcohol is simply not good for dogs. grapes and hops are both toxic to dogs, and so is the alcohol itself. 9. pumpkin or sweet potato pie this one’s tricky. both pumpkin and sweet potatoes are good for dogs. but for thanksgiving, many people and nutmeg to their pumpkin or sweet potato dishes which can cause a tummyache. if you want to have a pup-safe pie, check out the homestyle pumpkin pup-pie from barkshop! 10. ice cream just like humans, some pups handle dairy just fine– others get a tummyache. it really depends on your pup. if the ice cream contains xylitol, do not give any ice cream to your dog. xylitol is toxic to pups. 11. coffee while a couple sips of a cup of coffee probably won’t do a thing to your dog, be careful of coffee grounds or tea bags– these can be extremely dangerous to small pups. for more food check with the aspca. comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up brandon rhoads discover editor (aka the science nerd) 23 heavy-duty dog toys for monster chewers why is my dog eating poop? what are the best christmas gifts for a super chewer dog? 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go