wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 12 best live chat software for small business compared (2020) 12 best live chat software for small business compared (2020) last updated on february 9th, 2020 by editorial staff 1.1k shares share tweet share pin did you know that more than 67% of users on ecommerce websites abandon their shopping carts without checking out? customers want their questions to be answered instantly, and any uncertainty with their purchase can result in losing a sale. using a live chat support software helps you instantly answer user questions and convert them into paying customers. in this article, we will share our pick of the best live chat software for your small businesses. these live chat services work perfectly with any wordpress site. why add live chat support to your website? according to econsultancy, live chat has the highest satisfaction levels of any customer service channel at 73%, compared to 61% for email and 44% for phone. it is a no brainer that live chat has such a significant impact on online sales and marketing. it allows customers to get instant answers without leaving your website. a positive live chat experience can effectively help customers make the buying decision. adding live chat support can definitely reduce cart abandonment, increase sales, and boost conversions. but a lot of it depends on the live chat software that you use. a poor live chat support experience can have an adverse impact. you can lose sales, customers may leave with a bad impression of your brand, you may end up paying too much for the service, or fail to utilize the live chat app due to technical skills. basically, you want to find an affordable live chat service, that is easy to use, works with wordpress, and comes with all the features to help you make more sales. that being said, let’s take a look at our expert pick of the best live chat software that you can use to grow your business. 1. livechat livechat is the industry leader in live chat software. it’s very easy to set up and install with their free livechat plugin for wordpress. livechat also offers beautifully designed live chat support apps that you and your agents can use on your laptops, tablets, and mobile devices. that means you can chat with customers while on the go, without having to login to your wordpress dashboard. you can add survey forms before and after a live chat session, so you can evaluate how your support team is doing. during your off-hours, your users can also conveniently send a support ticket directly from live chat. livechat integrates with dozens of other services like popular crm software, google analytics, zendesk, all the top email marketing services, and many more. this will save you time since you won’t have to enter customer details manually into your other systems. perhaps the best feature of livechat is speed. their chat window loads extremely fast, works on all devices, and offers a much better user experience than most other live chat software. we use livechat on our ecommerce websites. pricing: livechat has different plans for businesses of all sizes. their starter plan starts from $16 per agent per month billed annually, or $19 for month-to-month. each plan comes with a 14 day free trial. special: wpbeginner users get 30% off the first payment when you use our livechat coupon. 2. chatbot chatbots are the future of live chat software because they allow you to engage with your customers 24/7. chatbot.com makes it easy for small businesses to use the power of artificial intelligence (ai) chatbots to grow your business. it comes with an intuitive drag and drop interface that you can use to create your own chatbot. they also have dozens of ready-made templates for various industries that makes it easy for you to design custom conversation scenarios that fits your business needs. for example, you can use the ecommerce bot template can help walk the customers through the entire buying process. you can use the lead generation bot to power-up your sales and book calls. their sales bot template allows you to sell products directly from the chat window which is a really powerful feature for making sales from social media profiles. their other bot templates include customer service bot, restaurant bot, package tracking bot, coffee shop bot, recruitment bot, and many more. chatbot templates are truly one of the best parts about this platform because it levels the playing field for small businesses. previously making chatbots were hard for small business, but this makes it easy. simply put, chatbot.com allows you to add a virtual assistant for your websites, facebook pages, and messaging apps. if the user wishes to communicate with a real person, then you can seamlessly forward them to your customer support agent, facebook messenger, phone support, or one of their many other live chat tools integrations. chatbot also integrates seamlessly with wordpress and woocommerce. integrating chatbot within our businesses is a big priority for us in 2020. pricing: chatbot has various plans for businesses of all sizes. their starter plan starts for $50 per month which gives you access to 1000 chats per month (essentially $0.01 / chat). each plan comes with a 14 day free trial. 3. sendinblue sendinblue offers a powerful yet beginner friendly live chat software. simply set up your chat box under your account and then add it to your website using a wordpress plugin. sendinblue allows you to easily convert your website visitors into customers by answering their last minute questions via live chat. the chat integrates with sendinblue marketing automation which enables you to capture more leads. it comes with built-in email marketing integration, retargeting for facebook ads, segmentation, and complete marketing automation. sendinblue offers a complete marketing package with crm, sms and email marketing, landing pages, and more. this powerful toolkit helps you convert even more visitors into paying customers. pricing: sendinblue offers different pricing plans, but you’ll need their premium plan to access chat feature. pricing for premium plan starts from $66 / month and includes upto 10 team members. 4. olark olark is a popular live chat solution for online businesses. it’s easy to use, and adding olark to a wordpress site is simple. all you need to do is copy and paste a code snippet into your wordpress sidebar widget or in your child theme. if you’d rather not work with code, then there is also a free olark live chat plugin which makes setup even easier. olark offers integration with other services such as salesforce, zendesk, highrise, etc. there are third-party mobile apps which allow you to connect to olark chat from almost any ios or android device, so you can chat with customers on the go. pricing: olark offers simpler pricing plan starting from $17 per agent each month. there is a 12% discount if you choose annual billing and 29% discount for two-year billing. they also offer 2-week free live chat support trial. 5. liveagent liveagent is one of the leading omnichannel live chat and help desk software. they offer a suite of software including email ticketing, live chat, time tracking, call center, and more. if you do not have a support desk system already, then using the liveagent suite can make things easy because it’s an all-in-one platform similar to zendesk and others. liveagent offers seamless integrations with wordpress and other popular website builders. they also integrate with top email marketing services, crms, and other marketing platforms. pricing: zendesk chat offers a limited free live chat support account for 1 concurrent chat session. their paid plans start from $14 per month per agent. 6. chaport if you are looking for a free live chat support software for wordpress, then you may want to checkout chaport. they offer a free forever plan with unlimited chats, history, notifications, unlimited registered operators, and up to 5 operators online at the same time. their software covers all the basic requirements. they have live chat support apps for mobile devices, beautiful multilingual chat widgets, reporting and analytics, third-party integrations through zapier. paid plans give you access to more features like typing insights, visitor notes, saved replies, file sending, auto-invitations, and more. pricing: they offer a free plan and a pro plan starting from $9.80 per agent / month. 7. intercom intercom is a flexible tool that helps you capture leads, engage users, and boost conversions. it offers messaging services with live chat widgets that you can automate with your own flows, add chatbots, and engage customers. it is not just a live chat support software. it can be used as an onboarding tool, support assistant, lead generation tool, marketing automation, and user-engagement software. if you are just looking for a live chat software, then you may not be able to utilize intercom’s full potential. on the other hand, if you want your live chat support software to do all these tasks, then you’ll love intercom. it is easy to use, integrates with google analytics, crm software, slack, email marketing services, and more. pricing: their essential plan starts from $87 / month, after which pricing is calculated based on your usage and add-ons you purchase. 8. freshchat freshchat is another good live chat support service with awesome features that rival some of the more well-known companies on this list. designed to be a conversation and messenger app, it allows you to start real-time chats with customers using agents or ai-powered bots. it also offers customer timeline views, live profiles, in-app campaigns, and customizable bots for automated conversations. you can connect chats to support tickets on zendesk or on a slack channel. your team can use smart plugs, canned responses, labels, private notes, and desktop notifications to be more productive. pricing: they offer a free live chat support service plan for up to 10 team members. their paid plans start from $15 per user per month and are billed yearly. 9. liveperson liveperson is another powerful live chat support software with tons of awesome features to help you engage customers and increase sales. it allows you to engage your customers via live chat on your website but also through sms, facebook messenger, whatsapp, and more. you can use chatbots to create automated conversation flows and save customer information in your other third-party apps. liveperson is targeted towards medium to large businesses and enterprise level clients. pricing: you will have to request a quote to get pricing information based on your needs. 10. smartsupp smartsupp is a low-cost live chat support software that allows you to track and record user sessions on your website. this helps you see how potential customers use your website and what’s preventing them from making a purchase. it also helps you track chat conversations in google analytics to see your performance. it works with wordpress, magento, shopify, and other popular ecommerce platforms. pricing: a basic free-forever plan and their paid plans start from $8 per month per agent. 11. pure chat if you are looking for a free live chat software, then pure chat is another good alternative. it allows you to easily add beautiful live chat widgets to your websites and the free plan allows you to add 3 operators with unlimited chat history. it comes with mobile apps so that you can stay connected with customers. your customers can send you email messages when you are offline and pre-chat form helps you collect user information to reach out later. pricing: a basic free plan, and their paid plan starts $79 / month billed annually. 12. drift drift is a conversational marketing platform that combines the power of live chat with an automated chat bot to help you save time and increase conversions. it comes with powerful features to help you convert more website visitors into sales leads. drift integrates with all popular crm and email marketing services. they offer several powerful features including drift bot, anonymous visitor intelligence, account based marketing, scheduling for meetings, and more. while it has a lot of powerful features, drift is not affordable for small businesses. pricing: the standard plan starts at $50 / month billed annually, and it comes with 2 seats. if you want the bot feature, then you will have to upgrade to the pro plan which starts at $500 / month billed annually, and it comes with 5 seats. our pick: best live chat software for small businesses, we recommend livechat inc. they’re the top rated live chat software in our list, and we use them on our business websites. it has all the necessary features for the right price. if you’re looking for a live chatbot software, then we recommend that you look at chatbot.com. they’re one of the best chatbot platforms in the market, and it’s actually relatively easy to setup compared to other solutions. if you’re looking to hire live chat agents, but not sure where to start, then we recommend using ltvplus. we use them to hire affordable 24/7 live chat agents for our ecommerce website. pro tip: make sure that you have a professional business email address along with live chat to boost your credibility. we hope this article helped you choose the best live chat support software for your wordpress site. you may also want to see our list of the best business phone services for small business, and the best seo tools to increase your website traffic. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 1.1k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 19 commentsleave a reply o. destiny says: mar 23, 2019 at 7:11 pm your number 1 plugin added over 5 seconds to the load speed of my website. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 2:31 pm if you reach out to the plugin’s support they should be able to help you find the reason your site is being slowed that drastically. reply paulo says: feb 2, 2019 at 3:02 pm great list. but.. sorry to say that i have tested them all and the best one is not on the list: crisp chat reply wpbeginner support says: feb 4, 2019 at 2:43 pm thank you for your recommendation for future updates to this article reply david cornish says: jan 1, 2019 at 12:53 am great list of benefits! i would definitely recommend live chat on any website. my personal experience with live chat is that it helps me to communicate better with website visitors and increase business leads. reply aaditya says: dec 29, 2018 at 2:03 am if need free live chat widget which one is best? reply wpbeginner support says: dec 31, 2018 at 3:22 pm it would depend on your other needs, you would want to reach out to the ones with a free plan to see if they have the other tools you are wanting to use for your live chat. reply dhruba says: sep 6, 2018 at 4:47 pm hi, is there any chat plugin that can also be installed on client sites ? reply harold says: may 1, 2017 at 9:40 pm could you recommend chat plugin that has triggers like when users spend a certain amount of time on a page? reply pawel halas says: nov 9, 2016 at 10:28 am wow, that’s a nice list! i have got to say that there are hundreds of live chats available for wordpress, but only few are capable, quality products. i can recommend livechat (no.1 on the list here) for its comprehensive approach to online customer support. it has ticketing system built-in and a set of powerful sales boosting features. a truly great all-rounder – especially for ecommerce websites. reply francisco says: apr 21, 2016 at 10:55 am hello, do you know a good plugin to use with chat and video in order to have a video chat room? also, i think it is needed a good hosting to support a web page with this kind of plugin. let me know your comments reply danny geurts says: nov 7, 2015 at 4:27 am hi, good info. i have a quastion what is a good plugin to have for live chat, video, audio support with paid customers only and track the use of the customer and the support member (time they talk) regards. danny reply yasser says: sep 30, 2015 at 9:39 pm thanks for this post, been looking for a good solution for live chat as i feel too many customers are leaving the site with unanswered questions and i am at my desk almost all the time, i might as well have a live chat and try to help convert visitors by answering their questions. by the way, i really love how clean and simple your theme is, what theme are you guys using on wpbeginner.com if you don’t mind me asking, feel free to refer me to an affiliate link if you have one hehe. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 1, 2015 at 11:15 pm we are using a custom theme. reply wpbeginner staff says: dec 21, 2014 at 7:48 pm we have corrected the mistake. thanks for pointing out reply ankush says: dec 21, 2014 at 2:47 pm the word ‘create’ in last second para has been used twice. just pointing out. reply wpbeginner staff says: sep 29, 2014 at 12:05 am depends on which live chat support software you are using. most of them are highly optimized for speed. reply ammar says: sep 28, 2014 at 7:26 am hi i have a question, does this make your website slow? : reply aurelie chazal says: feb 4, 2015 at 7:06 am i saw few comments about quick chat slowing down your website but haven’t seen any complains for others. i know with some providers, the chat window sometimes appears with a bit of a delay but it shouldn’t slow down your entire website. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) ipage coupon get over 83% off on ipage web hosting and a free domain name. wp manage ninja coupon get 15% off on wp manage ninja wordpress themes and plugins. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.