project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure crafts 12 spring craft ideas for adults share pin a dozen spring craft ideas for adults spring is here! i’m ready! i thought i’d put together a list of 12 spring craft ideas for adults. some are fun spring gifts, home décor, and easter ideas. let’s start with some gift ideas. here we go! diy spring gift ideas diy scented teacup candle make your own candles in mini tea cups in any scent you wish. this also makes a great gift for a grandparent, teacher, or mom for mother’s day. diy spring bunting and gift box set originally a craft challenge, make your own canvas banner with bright spring colors. diy mason jar terrarium with succulents make a spring terrarium with succulent clippings to give to a neighbor or friend. watch the video tutorial: home decor ideas for spring diy spring front door address wreath dress up your front door with this pretty springtime address wreath. click on the link to find three more ideas! magnolia spring wreath i made these fall/winter wreaths from some magnolia wreaths i found in the clearance section of target. i bought some artificial flowers from hobby lobby and viola… instant spring wreath. how to make cotton stems with two dollars and a nature hike, make this rustic farmhouse statement piece for your home décor. diy mason jar herb garden instructions grow your own indoor herbs by making a window sill herb garden n a jar. watch the video tutorial: teacup bird feeder repurposing idea feed the birds with this stylish upcycled bird feeder made from thrift store treasures. easter craft ideas upcycled thrift store easter bunny décor turn outdated thrift store ceramic bunnies into updated easter décor. diy curled hyacinth paper flowers a relaxing craft, make these paper flowers that will last all season (and then some). watch the video tutorial: diy easter bunny yarn art add to your easter décor with this bunny art in any color you choose. watch the video tutorial: diy flower crown headband make whimsical flower crowns for fun to wear on easter, mother’s day, or to wear to an outdoor spring party. watch the video tutorial: ok, i have to add just one more… make these adorable easter bunnies out of wood slices. like it? pin it! update: originally published on march 3, 2017 but updated and improved with new tutorials. 2 comments join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « wine of the month gift basket idea next post: photo bookmark diy gift idea » reader interactions comments chloe starr says march 5, 2017 at 8:10 pm thanks for sharing. you make my spring way much better reply dinah wulf says march 5, 2017 at 10:04 pm awe! thanks so much, chloe! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas diy costume beard and mustache copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more