home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog my smiling doberman january 19, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment at lunch i went and got another shellac manicure. can you say i'm obsessed?!?! the last one i had lasted me about 2 weeks without looking bad. i love doing it as a french because when your nails do eventually start to grow out, you can't notice it too much. let's see if this shellac can brave the ocean and a 5 night cruise! since i finished jamie eason's livefit … [read more...] i finished jamie eason’s 12 week livefit trainer! january 16, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments i'm glad to finally report that i finished jamie eason's 12 week livefit trainer. i have never stuck with a workout plan for this long and i'm so proud of myself!! i completed day 82 - shoulders/cardio on friday after work. this workout took me 1:13 and i burned 631 calories. (the weight training took about 25 minutes and then i did 45 total minutes on the treadmill and … [read more...] let’s get a win, timmy! january 12, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment i completed day 81 - chest/abs/cardio last night. the weight training portion took me only about 25 minutes. i even added in a bit of extra ab work at the end of my circuits. i wish there was more ab work in this trainer. my tummy is my biggest problem area, but we all know that abs are made in the kitchen. that must be why my abs always suck...because i'm not the best at … [read more...] i reached my goal weight! january 12, 2012 by erin weiss 3 comments i know that i shouldn't be checking my weight as often as i have been lately, but i've been so close to that goal weight that i've had stuck in my head for years. i'm not even kidding..for as long as i can remember, i've always said i wanted to be this weight. this morning i weighed myself and i hit the weight :) yayyyy!!! i don't remember the last time i was this weight..if … [read more...] i’ve been sore for 3 months january 11, 2012 by erin weiss 2 comments when you start a workout plan, you think you'll be sore in the beginning of the plan, and the soreness will eventually go away. when you do the livefit trainer, that's completely untrue! i've been sore for 3 months now. i've been trying to stretch a ton lately, and have even noticed that i've become more flexible. sweet. that wasn't something i was expecting but i'll take … [read more...] an hour of cardio january 9, 2012 by erin weiss 3 comments good morning and happy monday not so fun-day. i hope you had a great weekend. i had a pretty decent weekend. we stayed in on friday and just relaxed. on saturday ,we had my bf's parents stay with us and we went out for dinner. since i've been on my new kick to try new things...i even ordered fish off the menu for the first time ever. i got some kinda southwest tilapia and … [read more...] blueberry protein pancakes january 6, 2012 by erin weiss 7 comments tonight's dinner was blueberry protein pancakes. they turned out perfect!! i'll definitely be making these again (probably tomorrow morning!!!) ingredients: 1 cup whole wheat quick oats 1 scoop protein powder ( i used vanilla flavored) 3 egg whites 1/4 cup water 1 1/2 tsp cinnamon blueberries 2 packets sweetener ( i used truvia packets) 1 1/2 tsp baking … [read more...] day 74 – arms, abs & cardio january 5, 2012 by erin weiss 5 comments the alarm went off again at 5am and i dragged myself out of bed for another workout before work. there's nothing that gives me more motivation than knowing that i'll have to be in a bikini in 15 days. i've been kicking butt in the workout department this week and was doing great on eating clean..until last night. the bf and i had steak & shake for dinner. nope, we … [read more...] i ate fish! january 4, 2012 by erin weiss 3 comments anyone who knows me, knows that i'm as picky as they come. i have the taste buds of a 7 year old. i like pizza, mexican food & mac and cheese. since i've been doing this workout program, i've been trying to experiment and try new foods. surprisingly i've liked a few of them. maybe my taste buds are now equal to a 15 year olds? i'll take it! baby steps here … [read more...] circuit training december 28, 2011 by erin weiss 5 comments yesterday was my first day of circuit training on my workout program. this is when i concentrate on lifting a high amount of reps with a lighter weight. this was a different style of training for me because you do 150 reps and then you can rest. that's a lot! here's a look at my workout for yesterday's day 71 on jamie eason's livefit program. the workout complete 30 … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in