skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 12 wordpress podcasting plugins to grow your audience 2020 12 wordpress podcasting plugins to grow your audience 2020 march 20, 2020 rokr plugins 0 comments whoever is looking for the best wordpress podcasting plugins, the search ends now. after going through a bunch of different solutions and tools, we picked only the best ones. a collection for you to benefit from is now ready and set for you and your business. with the popularity of podcast shows growing with each year, you might consider starting it yourself. or you can plan to add another fantastic feature to your site and let your audience skyrocket. no more excuses; you are fully equipped with all the necessities to become a well-liked podcaster. first and foremost, wordpress is, by far, one of the best cms platforms for podcasters. many already use it due to its flexibility, scalability, and available plugins and themes. not only that, the simplicity and user-friendliness allow pretty much anyone to launch a podcast show in a short space of time. what is best about it is that there is no need to have any serious prior coding and design skills. you can use a podcast for all kinds of intentions. share your opinions and knowledge about the industry you are in. start doing interviews with interesting folks (see the tim ferriss show). if you just launched a new product, talk about it and promote it in an audio form. you might already have a successful youtube channel going on and need to find a way how to grow your business. that said, simply turn all your videos into audio and attract a new audience with it. there are just so many ways you can greatly benefit from an amazing podcast. save yourself time and pick any from the following wordpress podcasting plugins, and start a podcast today. be amazed by how much you can accomplish with the use of a solid content management system like wp and a powerful plugin. seriously simple podcasting when starting out, a simple and convenient plugin with included hosting is the best way to go. seriously simple podcasting is an all-in-one solution for you to be in charge of your podcast from the comfort of your wordpress site. there is no need for any third-party software. it is all blended into one solution to make it that much easier. with seriously simple podcasting, you can manage multiple podcasting shows, each with a different feed. speaking of feeds, ssp is compatible with both itunes and google play and with a whole range of other platforms. for managing your podcast, the wordpress podcasting plugin is fully set. you can customize the media player and have embed codes for blog integration. shortcodes and widgets allow you to feature your podcast feed or individual episode anywhere on the site. to investigate each episode, which performs better and which performs poorly, integrated statistics comes with seriously simple podcasting. have a clear understanding of what your fans like and what they dislike. do more of what works, and see the growth of your show. the setup of ssp is almost too easy to be true. you will have everything in order in a matter of clicks and your first show live sooner rather than later. seriously simple podcasting is basic but very adaptable and strong in features. more info / download libsyn podcasting plugin libsyn is, for whatever reason, still in beta, yet its popularity is rapidly growing. the plugin keeps on being updated but when it will officially launch, we do not know. however, you can fully benefit from it already and use it for your wordpress podcasting plugin of choice. feel free to make an account and start hammering out episode after episode. offer your listeners a unique experience and have them hooked and become loyal fans. you can easily link your libsyn account with your wordpress site and upload new shows straight from your page. with this in mind, you will not have to host any of your podcasting content on your wordpress hosting provider. let libsyn’s external cloud hosting take care of that even when your website might be down. in case the latter happens, readers will still be able to download fresh episodes from apps and feeds. creating new episodes and scheduling them inside wordpress will be a piece of cake with libsyn. if you could already use the platform and become familiar with it, by all means, use the wordpress plugin and ramp up your overall podcasting adventure. more info / download powerpress if you have a hard time choosing the right podcasting plugin for your wordpress site, consider picking powerpress. it has everything ready and sorted out for you—from simple and advanced modes to widgets, seo features, and a variety of player options. powerpress is compatible with itunes, google play, and tunein among other applications and clients. to keep things as easy and uncomplicated as possible when starting out, you should kick it off with powerpress’ simple mode. in just three easy steps, you will have it all sorted to get your podcasting show rocking. the first step is setting up your account with the pure essentials. the second step is putting together your first episode, and the last step is submitting it to, for example, itunes. after you get the gist and feel comfortable, step up your podcast game by switching to the advanced mode. since i’ve covered the simple mode, let’s chat about the advanced features, too. your player comes with embeds and user role management and allows you to create podcasts for custom blog posts. moreover, powerpress will help you turn your listeners to loyal podcast subscribers. there is a full set of subscription tools available for you, so you do not have to bother too much about the technical part. in case you are already using another podcasting plugin, migration to powerpress will be effortless. we could go on and on about what pp can do for you and your magnificent podcast. test the free version first, and move on to the advanced mode when you grow beyond expectations. more info / download smart podcast player smart podcast player is one of the best premium wordpress podcasting plugins on the market. it is suitable both for large podcasts and for everyone who is starting out but wants to go premium straight away. there are two pricing options available. it all depends on whether you want to save 33% and pay annually or pay a full monthly fee. the html5 player of smart podcast player is beautifully designed to offer your audience the best user experience. with the full player option, you have all of your archive featured inside. the player showcases all your episodes in the sidebar with a search box at the top. allow every user to get to the desired episode as quickly as possible. in addition, you get the smart track player, which focuses on each individual episode. instead of having a full archive in your player, feature only a particular episode or song. what might get you hooked the most is how much design modifications smart podcast player allows you to perform. you can easily tailor it to your needs and make it naturally blend into your wordpress website. listeners are allowed to stream or download each episode and share it via email or to their social media. buttons for speeding up and slowing down come handy when you need to hear something properly or want to go through the episode quickly. last but clearly not least, smart podcast player has an eye-catching subscription call-to-action to help you grow your email list, all straight from the podcast player. by the way, none other than pat flynn from the smart passive income built smart podcast player. however, although the features are mind-blowing, it is not necessarily ideal for someone just starting out. for those with an already established audience, though, spi is perfect. more info / download podlove podcast publisher if you are looking for a free wordpress podcasting plugin, then you should unquestionably look into podlove podcast publisher. it is a quick and efficient solution for bringing your podcast show to your site and beautifully combines with wp. there is also a how-to video on the download page that will guide you through setting up the plugin properly. that said, do not feel intimidated by the process of installing it, and start using it. you are all sorted out. the publisher is fully equipped with podlove’s very own player, which, of course, comes with the main podcasting plugin. it supports a wide range of audio and video files. moreover, the html5 player works fluently on all (touch) devices for ensuring a great ux. the player can be customized with a shortcode, while the experienced ones can modify the code. not many plugins out there allow you to do that, so if you like to make your own tweaks and improvements, podlove podcast publisher might be the ideal tool for you. this plugin helps you craft high-quality and entirely compatible podcast feeds, and you can manage multiple feeds within one website like it would be nothing. one more fantastic feature of the publisher is the chapter support. you can break down each episode into different sections for listeners to access the desired content right away. there is more to come, the developers say, but only time will tell what features they will add to this outstanding plugin for podcasters. more info / download buzzsprout podcasting buzzsprout podcasting is a sophisticated plugin, which hundreds of podcasters use for their shows to entertain and educate their audiences. if you want to join the users, you first need to have a buzzsprout account, and only then can you start benefiting from this fabulous utensil. from then on, you can begin with the free option first, which allows you up to 2 hours of upload per month and 90 days of hosting. the first and cheapest paid option sells for $12 a month. this one gives you 3 hours of upload and indefinite hosting. meanwhile, the most expensive plan costs $24/month and offers 12 of uploaded hours. it all depends on how big your podcast already is, but to test the waters, the free program will do it for you. for everyone who is already using another podcasting plugin but would like to try something different, with buzzsprout podcasting, the migration will be flawless. all you need is the url, and buzzsprout takes care of all the rest. instead of one, there are three html5 audio players for you to embed into your wordpress site. no matter which you choose, each updates automatically when you publish a fresh podcast. with the buzzsprout podcasting plugin, you get full itunes support and a look into how well your show performs. for itunes, an interactive walkthrough is available for you to successfully submit your feed to itunes and to boost the popularity of your podcasting show. more info / download podcast player you can now collect all your must-hear podcasts on your website with the use of podcast player. this practical and easy to use wordpress podcasting plugin helps your fans find all your episode in a single location. all it requires is your podcast’s feed url, and that is pretty much it. from then on, let podcast player do the work, showcasing your podcasts on your page. of course, the tool also comes with a bunch of great functionalities that will help you tailor the final creation to your needs and liking. the features of podcast player include a 100% responsive player, an option to modify fetched details and a handy ajax live search for episodes. keep in mind, this is far from all the goodness that you get with podcast player. more info / download seriously simple podcasting seriously simple podcasting – hence the name – is for every podcaster out there. whether you are just starting out or run an established podcast, with seriously simple podcasting, you can now create a feed on your wordpress website in a little breeze. while the simple part of the name relates to how effortless it is to use it, the serious means that this wordpress podcasting plugin is powerful and packed with goodies. in short, seriously simple podcasting is for everyone. thanks to the effortless settings, you can start with the plugin immediately. it also comes with castos, a podcast hosting platform, that offers you to start publishing your episodes without the need to leave your website. stunning media player, support for both audio and video content, an option to collect stats and shortcodes are some of the extras that you also get with seriously simple podcasting. more info / download itunes podcast review manager if you would like to bring your itunes podcast reviews to your wordpress site, now you can with this impressively easy to use plugin. first and foremost, it is free of charge and it does the job pretty much on autopilot. author’s note: while itunes podcast review manager checks for new reviews every four hours, sometimes, you might find of hitting the button to check them manually. it is just something that you need to keep in the back of your head. of course, you can display your podcast reviews on your website using a simple shortcode that integrates with your page smoothly. positive reviews can indeed have a significant impact not just on your website’s performance but on your main business, which is podcasting, too. share new episodes with your audience and gain new fans. more info / download wordpress podcast player plugin by cincopa with the practicality and user-friendliness of wordpress, you can find a way for all your needs and requests. while wp does not have much going on by default, its market of plugins is enormous. in short, there is a plugin for pretty much anything. whatever your heart desires, there is probably already a solution available. or maybe somebody is about to release it. when it comes to podcasting players, you have a whole bunch at your service. here, we have one for you, which will make your life a whole lot simpler. all you have to do is to first install the wordpress podcast player plugin. after that, set up the options you need and embed it into your blog posts and pages. that is it! cincopa’s plugin has a number of templates available along with subscription boxes to itunes and android. there is a range of premium plans available and a free one, too. bear in mind that the free option only allows 3 audios, 3 videos, and 50 images. along with that, you get access to all the templates, slideshows, sliders, and other goodies. there you have it, a wordpress podcast player plugin for your valuable audio show. more info / download sermon manager sermon manager was crafted exclusively for churches to speak to their listeners and spread the word online. the plugin is free of charge, but whoever is in need of custom help, premium support is available for a yearly fee. this paid support i am talking about gets you to access to the forum and support tickets. with thousands and thousands of downloads, sermon manager is one of the biggest wordpress sermon plugins available. it brings churches’ sermons to the worldwide web for everyone to get a chance to listen to them. sometimes, you need to hear them twice, thrice, maybe even more. allowing visitors to have them available at all times is a big plus for the church and the speaker. speaking of speakers, within the plugin, you can name them, even bible references, topics, and books. to each sermon, you can add audio, video, and pdf for notes. the html5 player is fully responsive and works perfectly. let it be an ios or an android device. with shortcodes, you speed up the customization, add what you need, and remove what you do not. your new favorite sermon manager works with any wordpress theme. the easy template can be modified so it follows the design of your site and does not act as a distraction. start spreading god’s word on the internet in a profound way. more info / download simple podcast press take care of your wordpress podcast automation with simple podcast press. this powerful plugin is not a free one yet, so you have a whole lot of options available for your podcast show. it works with pretty much all the podcast hosting services, like soundcloud, powerpress, and libsyn. you add the url of your feed, and simple podcast press does all the work for you. the beautiful player then displays all the episodes, which automatically update when new releases are available. in just mere seconds, you will have the wordpress podcasting plugin spp ready to use. after the installation, a mobile-friendly player will appear on your website. not only is it pretty, but it will also help you boost your episodes’ streaming and downloading numbers through the roof. cta (call-to-action) buttons to fetch listeners’ emails are also available. with simple podcast press, you will not have a problem scaling your itunes exposure, building a massive mailing list, and observing the overall success of your podcast. the player comes with clickable timestamps, meaning you can add time notes so listeners can jump straight to the desired time and have them hooked, surprisingly, for longer. create playlists, add custom buttons, display your itunes ratings, and more. you can even make the text in your notes pages tweetable to grow your twitter popularity. and, as you will discover on the go, simple podcast press has more in store for you. more info / download thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. plugins share this share tweet pin it share rokr rok is a professional content creator and an enthusiastic marketer who spends most of his day behind the screen, drinking coffee and listening to black metal. but he never misses a daily workout to get the blood flow going. he goes by the quote, "only a fool worries over what he can't control." related posts 10 free and functional client portal plugins if you want to create a dedicated space where your users will be able to… the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress if your business depends on showcasing your abilities or your past work, then surely you… the best amazon affiliate wordpress plugins for 2020 affiliate marketing is a great way to monetize a blog. many bloggers take on affiliate… top 19 free and popular contact form plugins for wordpress whether for a business or a personal blog, communication is an essential key in maintaining… awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii woocommerce is a popular platform for building and running an online store. it comes with… 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue to start making the most with your blog, the simplest way is to use one… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 31 best wordpress plugins for events, bookings, and appointments next post: 10 plugins to stop ad blockers on your wordpress website 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×