toggle navigation sign up/login sign up 1•2•3 affiliate marketing—by pat flynn an interactive video-based training program that teaches you step-by-step how to authentically generate more income with affiliate marketing enroll now for $699 let me help you make more money—ethically (without selling out) because no one likes a sell out if you're hoping to generate an income online, and you haven't really taken the time to learn affiliate marketing, then you're absolutely leaving money on the table. chances are good that you're facing an all-too common dilemma: how to “crack the code” of monetization and generate an income ethically from the audience you've been building. maybe you worry that to do so you'll have to create your own products from scratch. but generating an income from your own products requires time, energy, and a clear sense of what your audience wants and needs. on top of that, you may fret that creating your own products will make it seem like you're "selling out" and could damage the trust you've so carefully built with your audience. affiliate marketing offers a great solution to all these concerns. with affiliate marketing you can generate an income by recommending market-tested products you already trust and you know your audience will benefit from. affiliate marketing is a time-tested income-generation strategy with two powerful benefits: it allows you to maintain and strengthen your audience’s hard-won trust in your brand, with no need to invest time and energy creating products of your own. sadly, it’s easy to do affiliate marketing the wrong way—by putting money before your audience’s needs and trust, and damaging that relationship in the process. that's why i created 1•2•3 affiliate marketing. with 1•2•3 affiliate marketing, i’ll give you all the tools you need to win by promoting products that already exist in the market you're in—and i’ll show you how to do it the right way, so your audience wins, too. 1•2•3 affiliate marketing is your one-stop shop to become an affiliate marketing powerhouse. hi, i'm pat flynn how i grew my business with affiliate marketing affiliate marketing changed my life. at first, i was too afraid to create my own products, and i didn't know what to build. but over time i found that by sharing and recommending the products that had already been proven to help people, companies would pay me for sending new customers their way, and my audience would thank me for sharing those resources with them. since 2010, when i started affiliate marketing, i've generated over $3.5 million from affiliate revenue alone. you can even see all the details in my monthly income reports over the years on smartpassiveincome.com. affiliate marketing can be done the wrong way, or it can be done the right way. i've learned what works and what doesn't, and i want to use that knowledge to teach you how to generate affiliate income ethically and effectively. if you've been struggling to generate an income online, and you're not sure how to start monetizing, 1•2•3 affiliate marketing is for you. what you'll learn the tools and strategies you need to become a successful affiliate marketer 1•2•3 affiliate marketing is built on 23 lessons across 5 distinct modules that will guide you in how to: choose the right products to promote—the ones your audience will want and use. pick the best platform for sharing your affiliate messages with your audience. "stay legal" when you're promoting affiliate products. promote your affiliate products in any situation, at your own comfort level. get an affiliate link, and what to do with it. build "product trust" with an audience, even when it's not your own product. use the power of proof to accelerate your success. turn your affiliate relationships into true business relationships. ...and many more rules, tools, and strategies that make the difference between affiliate marketing the right way and affiliate marketing the wrong way. i want you to get paid for your efforts and be thanked by your audience for it. that's the goal, and i'm here to help you make it happen. course information here's what's included with 1•2•3 affiliate marketing 1•2•3 affiliate marketing was built with the ambitious online business owner in mind. work at your own pace. clear action items set you up for success, teaching you how to choose the right affiliate relationships and share those recommendations with your audience effectively. gain exclusive access to a facebook community to discuss coursework and trade ideas with your fellow classmates. ongoing office hours with pat each week give you the opportunity to ask questions and get advice. who this course is for bloggers, podcasters, email marketers, social influencers, and more! this course is for people who already have an online presence. it’s not for people who are just thinking of starting a business and starting from scratch. the audience size doesn't matter—you can actually benefit quite heavily from implementing these strategies early on in your business—but you need to know who you're serving and have some sort of following online, whether it's in a small email list, on social media, or a website with a bit of traffic. what it comes down to is this: i don’t want to sell you anything that you cannot benefit from. that’s simply not how i do things. i want you to succeed. and if you don’t have any online presence yet, this course is not going to help you succeed. when you're ready, i’ll be here for you. don't take my word for it dr. maelisa hall realized that, as she put it, was "leaving money on the table." with 1•2•3 affiliate marketing, she was able to complement the great stuff she was already doing in running workshops and a membership program with the power of affiliate marketing. watch the video below to hear how 1•2•3 affiliate marketing helped melissa get started. get started today let's make affiliate marketing a line item you're proud of learn an ethical system for serving your audience and growing revenue. you'll learn the strategies you need to make the most of your expertise, and you'll get support from me and from the existing 1•2•3 affiliate marketing community. enroll now for $699 course curriculum welcome, students! available in days days after you enroll start welcome! watch this first (5:36) start course downloads what you need to know before you begin available in days days after you enroll start 1. affiliate marketing 101 (4:51) start 2. the mandatory rules for long-term success (7:48) start 3. how to use this course (5:24) step 1: choose the right product available in days days after you enroll start 1. what kinds of products work best? (11:46) start 2. let’s brainstorm! (18:40) start 3. choosing your next “focus product” (8:41) start 4. what is an affiliate link? (8:42) start 5. how do i get an affiliate link? (6:11) start 6. what if there’s no affiliate link? (9:24) start 7. what should you do with your affiliate link? (5:02) start 8. building a relationship with the affiliate company (6:44) start 9. before we begin promoting (1:50) step 2: passive promotional strategies available in days days after you enroll start 1. what are passive promotional strategies? (2:21) start 2. adding links to your archive (10:03) start 3. adding links to your new content (6:13) start 4. setting up your most profitable page (11:48) start 5. home page conversion strategies (6:03) start 6. a high-performing page you likely don’t have (7:25) start 7. your email autoresponder sequence (15:55) start 8. set up your passive promotional strategies (4:28) step 3: active promotional strategies available in days days after you enroll start 1. what are active promotional strategies? (1:50) start 2. the top tools round-up (13:42) start 3. the demo (16:23) start 4. the "step-by-step" process (13:52) start 5. the interview (9:30) start 6. the before and after (8:59) start 7. your email broadcasts (3:51) start 8. affiliate bonuses (8:18) start 9. your first affiliate campaign (9:35) start 10. next steps (4:58) start 11. affiliate opportunities the affiliate marketing recipe book available in days days after you enroll start welcome to the recipe book! start books start software start online courses and training office hours available in days days after you enroll start office hours boost your business as for jason moore, he was already earning some income with affiliate marketing, but with 1·2·3 affiliate marketing, he found that he could do so much better. jason has benefited from some of the in-depth exercises that are in the course, implementing them already within in his own affiliate marketing efforts and seeing great results! watch jason's full video below to hear how 1·2·3 affiliate marketing has boosted his business. <span id="selection-marker-1" class="redactor-selection-marker"></span> frequently asked questions when does the course start and finish? once you've enrolled, you have lifetime access to the course. work at your own pace—there is no deadline to finish. how long do i have access to the course? you will have lifetime access to the course. what if i decide the course isn't for me? we'll be happy to issue you a refund within the first 30 days after your purchase date if you're unhappy for any reason. what skills will this course teach me? 1•2•3 affiliate marketing will give you the rules, tools, and strategies that will help you develop great affiliate marketing relationships and drive revenue from those relationships. you’ll learn how to identify the right products to promote, and how to share them effectively with your audience without compromising their trust or your reputation. what equipment/tools will i need to complete the course? access to a computer, spreadsheet software (excel or google spreadsheets), an email account, and an eager and open mind! additionally, i ask that you have at least some online following already. it can be a small one, but you shouldn't be starting from scratch when getting access to this course. if you're not sure what your business is about yet, that's the most important thing to figure out first! will i get access to the full course all at once? yes. additional bonus modules and affiliate marketing recipes may be added over time, but all of the course lessons are available upon enrollment. what do i do if i need help? if you need help with something related to the course, please contact [email protected] thanks! can i pay with paypal? yes. on the checkout page under the "billing information" section, switch from the credit card tab to the paypal tab. choose your country and click "enroll in course" to be directed to the paypal checkout. paypal is not available for installment plans. read what students have to say pat provided both the foundation to understand what works with affiliate marketing, but he went further with recipes to create your marketing efforts with different types of products. each one of these recipe books provided multiple ways to approach my marketing efforts. that was a lesson in itself—don't just do one thing when trying to market a product you recommend to your audience. — william beem every course pat creates is an amazing experience. the content is only one portion of that experience. his continued support, encouragement, and countless hours of his time spent answering questions and guiding you during the weekly office hour sessions are absolutely incredible. if you are serious about about applying this information to your business, you'll appreciate the support, tips, and strategies provided for you. — lana camiel i was on the fence about joining 1·2·3 affiliate marketing because i felt like i pretty much knew everything that i needed to know about affiliate marketing already. i was already getting several hundred dollars per month in commissions, but i decided that, knowing pat, i would give it a chance. boy was it worthwhile. pat goes so far beyond any of the other materials i've seen out there. so many great suggestion for active promotions. if you want to be successful with affiliate marketing, this course is a must-buy! — sam gavis-hughson over the past two years, i have been nothing but overwhelmed with internet and affiliate marketing. i think i am like many beginning internet marketers. try every tool and every internet marketing guru's advice because they promise the world and make it seem so easy. cost? huge. results? few. when i came across pat flynn i felt there was something different. he just seemed real to me. so, i decided to try pat's 1·2·3 affiliate marketing course. his course was much less expensive than others i've paid for. i'm half-way through the course and i finally finished my site and made a sale. i have regained my faith and really enjoy the white hat aspect of affiliate marketing. i feel like pat really cares about us, which is unique in this business. — maisy stanovich start affiliate marketing the right way today learn how to help your audience and add revenue with an affiliate marketing program. enroll now for $699 © spi media 2020 terms of use privacy policy