skip to content wine blog #7wordwinereview reviews wine racks wine coolers wine aerator what makes the lidl gin so darned popular 10 most popular champagne brands internationally – most are delicious a review of jay z’s ace of spades champagne best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktails at home best whiskey glasses 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best red wine glasses of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best rhubarb gin: brands that will turn even rhubarb haters best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it? 5 best toffee vodka brands that makes you very kissable | 2020 champagne gin non-alcoholic wine vodka close menu search toggle menu home > about us about us vim is the editor of the 12×75 wine blog (est. 2011). he is passionate about all things techy and having lived in paris for 2 years loves his wine more than most. finding the market a little stuffy, he decided to start a blog with a humerous edge. vim also created the #7wordwinereview (#7wwr) a twitter and instagram phenomena and also organises the london dinners monthly. geordie clarke is a contributing editor at 12×75. he also writes a personal wine blog where he shares his observations of the wine world in general, many of which are criticisms about brands that feature furry animals on their labels. formerly a financial journalist with the ft group for six years, geordie now works somewhere in the asset management industry. steph knipe was lured into the wine industry in 2000 after graduating from st andrews university with a not entirely useful ma hons degree in philosophy. since then, steph has dabbled in retail management, wine education, wine marketing and even had a stint as a sommelier before becoming settling on wine writing as a more sedentary and thus preferable career choice. she usually writes about wine with a philosophical slant, a wicked sense of humour and a glass of something delicious from burgundy, alsace or italy on the go. zelda sydney is a canadian based writer who happens to have an incredible eye for art. she muses as an animator and her pieces somehow connect with wine in the most brilliant of ways. her work can be found on her site and zelda will be creating more and more pieces for the 12×75 blog. ——————- 12×75.com is a participant in the amazon eu associates programme, an affiliate advertising programme designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.co.uk]. about 12×75.com 12×75 is a light hearted, comical wine blog which focuses on wine news, reviews, food & interviews with leading figures in the world of wine. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. articles about twelve by seventy five ltd (who have nothing to do with 12×75.com) will the real 12×75 please stand up, please stand up investment firm twelve by seventy five is not 12×75 recent posts best non alcoholic gin 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews most shared posts best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it?... being a native californian but living in nyc, i think i&# 28 shares best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktai... cocktail shakers are used for a variety of reasons in a v 35 shares the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s gu... what is it about opening wine that can sometimes be so an 33 shares interviews stephen browett – farr vintners doug rumsam – bordeaux index mark schuringa – ditton wine traders adon kumar – wine searcher judy leissner – grace vineyard peter lunzer – lunzer investments james miles – liv ex mark bedini – fine+rare david elghanayan – vanquish benjamin wallace – the billionaire’s vinegar paula & stacey golding – premier cru fine wine investments henri lurton – chateau brane-cantenac nigel jagger – octavian simon berry – berry bros. & rudd aline baly – chateau coutet adam brett-smith – corney & barrow maximilian riedel – riedel tony laithwaite – laithwaite’s wine pages about us contact us subscribe #7wordwinereview power… sitemap for great london seo services click away. ©2020 back to top search search close