australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video dan pelle/the spokesman-review/ap world news 03/27/2020 17:10 edt 13 amazing photos you missed this week scenes of life amidst the coronavirus pandemic dominate this week's best images. by chris mcgonigal, huffpost us with the never-stopping news cycle, it’s easy to miss great images that fly under the radar. we’ve got you covered. we’re highlighting exceptional photos from around the world for the week of march 21 to 27. check them out below. (above: after flying home from brazil, gavin wolcott, 19, gets a hug from his mother, coralee, at spokane international airport in spokane, washington, on march 24. wolcott was serving a mission in brazil, but his stay there was cut short due to concerns over the coronavirus. credit: dan pelle/the spokesman-review/ap) europa press news via getty images residents and health workers at the nursing home vitalia kansas sing and clap to celebrate that none of them has the coronavirus on march 26, 2020, in sevilla, spain. dan istitene via getty images people exercise on the seafront on march 22, 2020, in hove, england, after recent incidents of individuals ignoring social distancing guidelines. ulet ifansasti via getty images villagers spray disinfectant on a motorcyclist as they try to prevent the spread of covid-19 on march 27, 2020, in yogyakarta, indonesia. officials have confirmed more than 1,000 cases of the deadly coronavirus in that country with at least 87 recorded fatalities. phil noble/reuters sophie and emily ward pose for a photo with their hand-crafted message on their window as the coronavirus continues to spread in st helens, england, on march 25, 2020. jens meyer/ap just-married laila and boualem bellil walk in the stall courtyard, a tourist spot in dresden, germany, on march 26, 2020. they celebrate without wedding guests because of the coronavirus regulations but want to make up for it with a party next year. jenny evans via getty images a person wearing a snorkel and mask is seen on march 26, 2020, in sydney, australia. michael ciaglo via getty images people stand in freshly painted circles, six feet apart, as they wait in a two-hour line to buy marijuana products from good chemistry on march 23, 2020, in denver, colorado. arnd wiegmann/reuters chocolate easter bunnies wear protective masks at the baeckerei bohnenblust bakery in bern, switzerland, on march 25, 2020. emily elconin/reuters dana baer and her son jacob baer wish avery slutsky a happy sixth birthday from their car during a drive-by celebration as they maintain social distance in west bloomfield township, michigan, on march 24, 2020. alessandra tarantino/ap zookeeper benedetta pellegrini wears a face mask as she feeds lemurs at the closed zoological garden in rome on march 25, 2020. the zoo has scaled down the number of its active workers, with all the administrative staff at home, per new rules imposed to slow the spread of covid-19. associated press an aerial view of a public bus depot in kyiv, ukraine, on march 22, 2020. ina fassbender via getty images apprentice andrea schulz presents a tray of toilet paper-shaped cakes at the schuerener backparadies bakery in dortmund, germany, on march 26, 2020. related... striking photos show empty disney world as it remains closed during coronavirus pandemic photos show how people of faith are adapting to the coronavirus pandemic 14 amazing photos you missed this week here are the latest images showing how the world is responding to coronavirus suggest a correction chris mcgonigal senior photo editor, huffpost more: coronavirus photos world news covid-19 subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.