skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 13 amazing paid wordpress advertising plugins 2020 13 amazing paid wordpress advertising plugins 2020 march 27, 2020 rokr plugins 0 comments your website is growing steadily, which means that the time has come to look into the best paid wordpress advertising plugins. after all, you do plan to make money with your fantastic and content-rich blog, don’t you? after testing out a bunch of free options, you finally come to the conclusion that premium is the way to go. if this is the case, you could not have come to a better place. in this article, we examine a select few of top-notch advertising management plugins for your wordpress websites. displaying beautiful advertisements for your targeted and hungry audience is way easier than you may think. one of the simplest options is to add an adsense banner to your sidebar or into posts. then, you can start earning from each click. however, even for that, you need a plugin. this post goes through a wide range of choices for your website advertising. when you start to get familiar with the potential of your blog, make sure that you get the most out of this list. since wordpress does not come with an ads manager by default, you need to rely on extensions. that’s why we put together this collection of the best paid wordpress advertising plugins. there is a tool for every webmaster to monetize a website and scale profits. besides, some of the most popular wordpress themes already offer ad space. this is when a plugin comes very handy. let’s dive in! wp pro advertising system are you after one advertising manager to take care of all your ad placements and promotions on your websites? wp pro advertising system is an all-in-one plugin with numerous options. it does not only display banners anywhere on your website, but it also helps you create ads. one of its many cool features is the visual banner designer tool, which is a drag-and-drop animated html5 ad builder. you do not have to hire a designer; you can craft simple and stylish ads all by yourself. needless to say, all ads that you put together within the plugin are mobile-friendly. another highly beneficial feature of wp pro advertising system is the banner heatmap. you get to see where users are clicking on your ads and later adjust them accordingly. you can also target a specific audience and show banners per device, carrier, platform, and even brand. note that the plugin shows ads to ios and android users only. along with the classic banners, you can also create corner peels, popups, and turn your entire background into an advertisement. choose from over 300 transition options for banner rotations and predefined display options for unique placements. most importantly, track your ads, and see which performs best. you can schedule ads and let users build, manage, and edit their own banners. allow the best performers to appear first, followed by all the rest. with wp pro advertising system, your banners will always appear at the right place at the right time. more info / download demo wp in post ads displaying ads in wordpress blog posts might be the best option for some of you. you can implement advertisements into the text and have them featured in the right section. let it be at the bottom of your article, somewhere in between, or both. you can do it all with wp in post ads. placing ads in your posts, though, is only one of the many things that this plugin can do for you. track impressions, perform ab split tests, and make banners appear or hide after a certain amount of days. optimize ads for each particular post separately, and have complete control over your website monetization. additionally, the plugin allows you to show ads after post titles, after a specific amount of paragraphs, or after the content. you can also completely customize the appearance of the ads with a shortcode. you have the freedom as well to do exactly what you want with banners. there is even an option to hide them from members. show advertising only to guests, but have your ads disappear for every logged-in user. to get statistics always, wp in post ads integrates with google analytics for detailed data of your adverts’ performance. if you solely rely on placing advertisements in your posts and on your pages, wp in post ads is here to take care of your needs. more info / download demo wp quads pro if you find adsense to be the best monetization method for your website, wp quads pro will make integration a breeze for you. it supports unlimited ads to your accelerated mobile pages (amp). of course, the responsiveness of your ads will be instant. you can choose a specific banner size for your users’ device. you can also enable the automatic mode for the plugin to detect the appropriate ad size for a screen automatically. wp quads pro can detect whether your visitors are using an ad blocker. if they do, you can create custom messages that will appear where ads do. in addition, with google analytics integration, you can have a clearer view of your audience and of how many are using ad blockers. after the simple setup, you can start adding as many ads to your websites as you want. there are no limitations. so, avoid issues with placing google adsense’s code on your blog. let wp quads pro make your lives simpler. for those who are yet to build a website, make sure you check out our top collection of adsense-optimized wordpress themes. more info / download adrotate for wordpress adrotate for wordpress is one of the most popular paid wordpress advertising plugins. it is a very straightforward tool for managing banners straight from your admin panel. it is very newbie-friendly yet great for advanced users, too. this plugin is a solution for website owners of all levels, with or without technical knowledge. from now on, you can launch successful campaigns without breaking a sweat. adrotate for wordpress does the major part of the work. just finalize it, and make it go live on your website. placing banners across your entire page is possible with adrotate for wordpress. you can have as many as you would like. when it comes to mobile, you can tell adrotate pro to hide desktop ads and show only the ones specifically designed for mobile users. it is very possible to use geo targeting, which comes helpful when you would like to show certain banners to a particular audience. it might sound like it involves a ton of work to set it up, but this is not really so. every feature of adrotate for wordpress is simple to use and even easier to put into action. some of the top brands use adrotate for wordpress, so there is no reason why you should not join the squad as well. more info / download advanced floating sliding panel by utilizing advanced floating sliding panel plugin, you can add a unique way of advertising to your website. while you can use the tool for notifications, videos, widgets, forms, custom content and shortcodes, it works with ads just as well. you can now easily construct vertical and horizontal sliding panels with tabs. advanced floating sliding panel also supports multiple tabs and unlimited sliding panels. sometimes, you want to approach advertising completely different compared to others and see fantastic results for yourself. grab your visitors attention with advanced floating sliding panel and monetize your website originally. also, the plugin is super easy to use and configure and works with all modern wordpress themes out there. besides, you can always reach out to the friendly team of experts who will take care of all your questions and concerns. more info / download demo advertplaces advertplaces is a spectacular paid wordpress advertising plugin that will help you monetize your website or blog the right way. with fifteen different banner sizes, you will quickly find the right layout to add to your page. instead of adding banners and advertisements manually, you can now take to your advantage a sophisticated tool that will do most of the work for you. what’s more, while advertplaces fully supports advertising platforms like adsense, you can also offer advertisers to place their custom banners. as far as the latter goes, they do not really need to get in touch with you, just pay for it and voila, the banner is up. and advertplaces also supports paypal payments for your convenience. the advertiser only needs to create an account on your page and can start advertising almost instantly. moreover, advertplaces also ensures in-depth statistics and click fraud protection. more info / download demo ad blocks management tools if you are already using the free ad block plugin, this paid extension will definitely be of great advantage to you. what the plugin does, it helps you manage ad blocks like a pro. in other words, you can now easily schedule ad blocks publication and even load them via ajax. you can set the start and end date in advance and never again worry about ads running or not. you can also set a custom schedule where you exclude particular days or dates. additionally, the auto posting works with preset rules based on target post taxonomies. last but not least, loading advertisements via ajax will also keep your seo optimization intact. more info / download demo affiliate egg hence the name, affiliate egg is a paid wordpress advertising plugin for affiliate marketers. the tool is exclusive for building niche affiliate pages, yet powerful enough to alter to your needs and ideas easily. instead of working with big platforms, you can now create local stores and start earning commissions for each sale you make. when working with affiliate egg, there is no need for networks to approve you, heck, you do not even need an api to get things moving. in short, use affiliate egg upon installation. affiliate egg features auto blogging, supports over one hundred local shops and they add more with each passing month. additional goodies are custom cookies, deep links and sub ids to name a few. with affiliate egg, you can now hammer out niche ecommerce websites, review sites, pages that are on autopilot and even landing pages. more info / download demo banner manager for wordpress would you like to avoid joining ad networks and work directly with advertisers? with our paid wordpress advertising plugins, you can do it with ease, and coding knowledge is not necessary. in a matter of seconds, you can have your own marketing system ready for displaying ads on your website. a tool that will help you do just that is banner manager for wordpress. no need to pay extra fees anymore. put all the money your ads generate directly into your pocket. depending on your website, set as many or as few banners as possible on your website with a php code, an html code, or a simple shortcode. have advertisements in the sidebar, in the posts, and in the header, you name it, and banner manager for wordpress will realize it for you. there are eight most-used banner sizes available, but you can create a custom version easily. advertisers can sign up to your website where they can manage all their advertising material. a preview option is also available for clients to check their banners in action. for pure testing purposes or to offer several business partners the same ad spot, banner manager for wordpress comes with a banner rotation feature. however, the banners go live only after the admin approves them and no sooner. you do not want to promote something that is totally irrelevant to your site’s content, right? more info / download demo epic advertisement when you are looking for different ways to include advertisements to your website or blog, epic advertisement will surely do the trick. this sophisticated and easy to use wordpress advertising plugin is an extension for elementor and wpbakery page builders. the two of the most popular drag and drop editor that, very likely, you are using with your theme. if that is the case, epic advertisement now creates a new option in your admin that will help you add the ads to different locations of your website. epic advertisement comes with four ad types, supports seven different placements, offers you to modify the ad size and easily handles as many ads as you want. of course, your ads will display beautifully on both handheld and desktop devices. you can also add custom inclusions in your content with the use of a shortcode or widget. more info / download demo apo okay, first and foremost, apo is something slightly different compared to the majority of advertising plugins that you find on this list. if you are particularly focusing on pushing amazon products with your affiliate blog or website, apo will be of tremendous help. what the plugin does is check the availability of the products that you have featured on your website. with this, you do not need to manually go through the entire website every once in a while to remove and edit the products that are not available any longer. let apo do the trick. some of the features of apo are email notifications, gutenberg compatibility, click counter, translatable and compatibility with other affiliate plugins. you can now have full control over the amazon products that you rock on your page with the versatile and handy apo. more info / download demo progress ads instead of rocking classic display ads on your website or blog you can always try something different. and that something different is a sophisticated and powerful wordpress advertising plugin, progress ads. the tool creates an advertisement that is similar to those you see on youtube, which appear over the entire screen/player. with little work and effort, you can now introduce a similar ad to your website that appears when the user starts scrolling. indeed, progress ads is compatible with all modern themes and plugins, ensuring smooth integration and exceptional performance. in the bundle of features, progress ads comes with progress bars, different trigger types, ad waiting time, ad display frequency and deactivation of the advertisement for logged-in users, to name a few. progress ads plugin is also compatible with shortcodes, so feel free to enrich it with anything you fancy. more info / download demo ads pro plugin with ads pro, you can do just about anything regarding your website advertising and banners with ads pro. it is a powerful wordpress banners manager with all the necessary features and a ton more—one wordpress advertising plugin to take care of your entire website. you, as the admin, and your users can all greatly benefit from ads pro. both the ultimate admin panel and the useful user dashboard give your entire network full control. with over 20 ways of displaying ads and more than 25 ad templates, the options are endless. billing can be done on a cpc, cpm, or cpd (cost per day) basis, while the payment methods that the plugin covers are stripe, paypal, woocommerce payment gateways, and even bank transfer. ads pro plugin is compatible with visual composer, google adsense, buddypress, bbpress, and all the latest technologies. the plugin is smart enough to detect ad blockers and to keep your banners running uninterruptedly. you can also set capping to display ads only for a certain number of times per user. random ads display, automatic ad confirmation, hiding ads for logged-in users, and easy translation are just a few extra features of ads pro plugin. each customer can access statistics where they can check clicks, click-through rates, and views in real time. the hype is real. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. advertisingwordpress plugins share this share tweet pin it share rokr rok is a professional content creator and an enthusiastic marketer who spends most of his day behind the screen, drinking coffee and listening to black metal. but he never misses a daily workout to get the blood flow going. he goes by the quote, "only a fool worries over what he can't control." related posts 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 collecting money for a good cause is not always an easy task. but you can… how to run an a/b test on your wordpress blog (plugins and tools) running an a/b test on your website can have incremental effects on your conversion rates,… top 10 wordpress email subscription plugins if you are an online entrepreneur, you probably know the importance of newsletter to your… the best wordpress forum plugins for online communities a forum is a place where persons with similar interests meet up and and connect.… 21 best cryptocurrency wordpress plugins, widgets & scripts 2020 if you are building a website for the coin market, then you most certainly need… 29 most popular premium and free social sharing plugins for wordpress 2020 social sharing is now an integral part of our internet experience. furthermore, it's constantly on… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (122) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: the best free wordpress font plugins to change fonts with ease 2020 next post: 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×