skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 13 best wordpress taxi booking themes 2020 13 best wordpress taxi booking themes 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars theme collections 1 comment building a taxi service booking website and need a framework to start? these wordpress taxi themes will serve as an outstanding foundation for your upcoming project. taxi is an extremely popular service. people need to get to different parts of town all the time. but what do they do, if they, say, can’t remember your taxi service’s phone number? exactly, they try to look something up on the internet. so, what could be a better way to find more customers than start up a website for your business? today we have a list of taxi booking wordpress themes. today’s list only includes taxi booking themes built using wordpress. it is currently the most popular content management system. a very flexible and user-friendly. which also free and open-source, which allows for some very deep customization and improvement. there also exist thousands of custom plugins for you to download should you ever feel the need for it. in other words, wordpress is the go-to system for both rookie and veteran developers, as it is both simple and extremely well-rounded, which means it will let you create absolutely any kind of website you desire. best wordpress taxi themes without further hesitation let’s check out the best wordpress taxi themes you can start using today. getcab getcab has a stylish cab booking wordpress theme. those include a unique layout, request form with custom fields, wpml compatibility, gallery layouts and many others. it is also fully responsive so that your customers can always reach you using their phones. in addition to that, getcab is cross-browser compatible and in tune with retina screens, too. your website’s performance will be of the highest degree at all times, that is for sure. with the one-click installation process, you get to start doing the task immediately. you can choose to import between six different home designs, all original, creative and very enticing. from then on, stick the out of the box version or enter the world of dragging and dropping with wpbakery. the options this nifty plugin unlocks are endless. get as creative as you want and tailor getcab to your needs precisely. more info / download demo grab taxi great choice for a taxi service, car rental service, cab booking website. full responsiveness, request form with custom fields and gallery layouts are all great functions that grab taxi treats you to. the theme is also compatible with the cars search plugin, search form, car comparison form, and other handy widgets. in short, grab taxi works will all the popular plugins and comes with a horde of amenities that will do you well. out of the box, you get two different homes and an option to choose between boxed and full-width layouts. every grab taxi user also gains access to regular updates, documentation and support. you will never feel lonely on your journey to a successful launch of a fresh new taxi service website. make it yours and shine online like a pro. more info / download demo valencia if you run a business where you offer others to hire a car, sort out your online presence with valencia. it is a top-notch wordpress theme with three homes and fifteen inner page layouts. everything is preset and ready for you to put it into practice out of the box. with the integration of king composer pro, you can also perform extra customization tweaks and style valencia according to your branding directions. drag and drop and make it pop. with the one-click demo import function, you can now start the journey in the snap of a finger. valencia is, of course, compatible with all modern devices, browsers and retina screens. other goodies of the theme are parallax effect, seo optimization, fast loading, social links and widget-rich footer. start your business strong with valencia now. more info / download demo autlines autlines is a first-class car rental service wordpress theme that helps realize an active page sooner rather than later. the design of the theme is very modern and sophisticated, readily available out of the box. that said, if you fancy the look of it, you can easily employ autlines exactly as is. still, if you would like to enrich it with your custom tweaks, you can do that, too. the process of editing and adjusting the default look is a piece of cake. with no need to code! before you fully dive in, you can first watch video tutorials and get the gist of it. this will give you an even better understanding of how effortless working with autlines actually is. anyone can do it, even if you happen to be an utter beginner. animated statistics, sticky navigation, testimonials and slider revolution are all the different specialties of autlines. more info / download demo tantum when sorting out a website for a car rental business, even taxi, tantum is a wordpress theme that will do the trick. choose the right demo and start on the internet with a striking page. pretty much, it is just as simple as it sounds. nowadays, you don’t really need to be an expert at coding and design; with the right tool, you can get the job done even without any skills and experience. tantum is a solution that sorts you out with a top-notch outcome. moreover, you get five different headers, slider revolution, social media integration, various widget areas and more. you can also start a blog and implement content marketing to bring in more business. google maps and a contact form are also integrated into the web design for your convenience. more info / download demo ireca regardless of the renting business, you operate, ireca is the wordpress theme that gets things moving forward swiftly. of course, if you are in the car rental space, ireca is an excellent solution for your intention. once you unbox the package, you get hit with a big portion of layouts and elements, as well as multiple features. there are a horde of index page designs available for you to put into practice and make an instant difference. inventory management, booking calendar, multiple payment gateways, coupons, superb search function and elementor page builder are some of the available amenities of ireca. excellent documentation and fantastic support are also at your disposal for a smooth page establishment. you only really need one tool and all the rest becomes history. this time, it’s ireca! more info / download demo efuel since more and more vehicles are powered by electricity, running a green car rental business surely has a solid potential. why following the classic approach if you can go entirely against the grain and do something different. as for the website, you can now make it a realization with efuel. it is a car rental and ev charging wordpress theme that will easily set you apart from the competition. while you can stick to the beautiful and up-to-the-minute design as is, you can also improve and enhance efuel further. making adjustments is easy, thanks to the user-friendliness and drag and drop page builder. from home and internal pager layouts to all the necessary elements and handy features, efuel misses nothing. the theme also practices all the modern trends and regulations, like responsiveness and cross-browser compatibility. more info / download demo cars4rent cars4rent is a very powerful template for any car service-related website. it is deeply and easily customizable with wpbakery page builder, essential grid galleries and revolution slider. when modifying the default look of cars4rent, you will never need to touch a single string of code. the theme is also compatible with the car rental system plugin which presents all of your vehicles to the customer in a very easy-to-navigate and user-friendly way. moreover, cars4rent also practices all the latest web and tech trends for smooth and stable operation. your website will run flawlessly on all devices, retina screens and browsers, as well as load super fast. enjoy a professional and sophisticated outcome with the use of cars4rent now. you can expect a full-blown website all set and ready to attract new customers in little to no time. more info / download demo citycab specifically built for taxi companies, citycab is a perfect choice for your cab booking business. it comes with all the features you will ever need, which include responsiveness, boxed or full-width layout, bootstrap, revolution slider, wpbakery, essential grid, contact form 7 and wpml. needless to say, the theme is extremely customizable thanks to that particular set of plugins. when speaking of customization and editing, you can improve and enhance the appearance of citycab to the very last detail. with a tool like citycab, you can easily stand out from the masses. a few extra specialties of citycab are testimonials, sticky navigation, back to top button, scrolling animations and social media buttons. you can even start a blog and strategically implement content marketing into your business. even if you are busy transporting customers, you still have enough time to build a top-notch website with citycab. it’s fast and it’s easy. more info / download demo taxipark taxipark comes with over fifteen pre-designed pages, three homepage layouts, services, blog, blog posts, galleries, reviews, tariffs, contact form and others. this resourceful tool is also compatible with wpbakery, which will let you customize your design in a simple drag and drop interface. that said, regardless of your skill level when it comes to building pages, with taxipark, anyone can create a striking end product in a little breeze. taxipark is also seo optimized and fully responsive, so your website will be easy to find and will look great on all devices. extra goodies contain bootstrap framework, parallax effects, multi-level drop-down menu, shop section and blog. with all the fantastic features and layouts, you can now push the boundaries and take your taxi business to new heights. taxipark is no joke, so take a peek at it now. more info / download demo chauffeur chauffeur features online booking and payments through fully integrated paypal and stripe functionality. it comes with wpbakery, revolution slider and is fully responsive and retina ready. there is also a trip distance and time calculation feature to display the time estimates to your customers. chauffeur is a fully-featured wordpress theme that will get your taxi and car rental business going swiftly. with all the ready-made content and a codeless process, you can expect spectacular results right of the get-go. if you dig the default look of chauffeur, you can indeed use it exactly as is. just add your custom content and other details and you are ready to roll. however, with the use of wpbakery page builder, you can also improve and modify the look, so it matches your branding regulations to a t. whatever you do, it will feel very comfortable and uncomplicated. more info / download demo limo king limo king comes with a well-designed limo fleet layout, fleet rates table and a good-looking form. it also comes with the goodlayers page builder and is compatible with woocommerce and wpml plugins. the package also includes the master slider plugin, which will be very useful in managing the slider’s elements in a drag and drop interface. if you would like to enter the internet with an elegant, professional and up-to-the-minute website, let limo king do its trick. this remarkable limousine and car hire wordpress theme is all you need to grow your business and reach more potential customers. with a well-thought-out online presence in combination with great marketing strategy, you win the game like a true champ. look into all the other impressive features and elements that limo king has in store for you and start with the right foot forward. more info / download demo grand car rental a gorgeous wordpress theme for a car rental service. grand car rental’s design is modern and stylish and was built to increase the conversion rate. the theme also features a smooth parallax scrolling effect, contact form 7, woocommerce compatibility and heaps of other amazing features. for instance, you can choose between four home designs, all creative and very attractive. once you find the right look, import it with the one-click installer and start refining it with your creative touches. various pricing possibilities, travelers counter, awesome car information section, editable booking form and different payment options are all a grand car rental user gets. you don’t need to be a professional to be able to craft a professional website. with grand car rental, you get the job done even if it is your first time doing it. we highly recommend you to check it out. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. auto rentautomotivebookingcar rentcar rentaltaxi share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts 10+ superb literature and art wordpress themes for creative writers & elearning are you interested in launching an art or literature site? may the following collection of literature and art wordpress themes be helpful! 16 best wordpress themes for actors 2020 with the latest web technologies exist today, building a website is just a matter of… absolutely best industrial wordpress themes if you want to skip that kind of troubles, the list of industrial wordpress themes below would be right at home. 20 fitness and running wordpress themes for sports website 2019 sport is big business, and if you want to maximize your potential in the sports… 38 best wordpress fitness themes 2020 for gym, fitness centers and crossfit groups list of best responsive wordpress fitness themes designed and developed especially for gym and fitness… 10 very best diving and water activities wordpress themes to make your website more attractive one thing is certain: water sports have been an all-time favorite for many. water sports,… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 20 best wordpress bbpress forum and community themes in 2020 next post: stunning wordpress video themes for embedded and self-hosted videos 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×