home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads guitar zero: a neuroscientist debunks the myth of “music instinct” and learns to play the best of brain pickings 2013 the best of brain pickings 2014 labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings more fluid reflections on keeping a solid center. by maria popova on october 23, 2006, brain pickings was born as a plain-text email to seven friends. it was then, and continues to be, a labor of love and ledger of curiosity, although the mind and heart from which it sprang have changed — have grown, i hope — tremendously. at the end of the first decade, i told its improbable origin story and drew from its evolution the ten most important things this all-consuming daily endeavor taught me about writing and living — largely notes to myself, perhaps best thought of as resolutions in reverse, that may or may not be useful to others. now, as brain pickings turns thirteen — the age at which, at least in the germanic languages, childhood tips to adolescence; the age at which i first competed in the european math olympics; the legal marriage age in my homeland; the number of british colonies that germinated the united states; the number of moons revolving around neptune; a handsome prime number — i feel compelled to add three more learnings from the past three years, which have been in some ways the most difficult and in some ways the most beautiful of my life; the years in which i made the things of which i am proudest: created the universe in verse, composed figuring, and finally published, after eight years of labor, a velocity of being: letters to a young reader. with dad, year 0 here are the initial ten learnings, as published in 2016, which i continue to stand and live by: allow yourself the uncomfortable luxury of changing your mind. cultivate that capacity for “negative capability.” we live in a culture where one of the greatest social disgraces is not having an opinion, so we often form our “opinions” based on superficial impressions or the borrowed ideas of others, without investing the time and thought that cultivating true conviction necessitates. we then go around asserting these donned opinions and clinging to them as anchors to our own reality. it’s enormously disorienting to simply say, “i don’t know.” but it’s infinitely more rewarding to understand than to be right — even if that means changing your mind about a topic, an ideology, or, above all, yourself. do nothing for prestige or status or money or approval alone. as paul graham observed, “prestige is like a powerful magnet that warps even your beliefs about what you enjoy. it causes you to work not on what you like, but what you’d like to like.” those extrinsic motivators are fine and can feel life-affirming in the moment, but they ultimately don’t make it thrilling to get up in the morning and gratifying to go to sleep at night — and, in fact, they can often distract and detract from the things that do offer those deeper rewards. be generous. be generous with your time and your resources and with giving credit and, especially, with your words. it’s so much easier to be a critic than a celebrator. always remember there is a human being on the other end of every exchange and behind every cultural artifact being critiqued. to understand and be understood, those are among life’s greatest gifts, and every interaction is an opportunity to exchange them. build pockets of stillness into your life. meditate. go for walks. ride your bike going nowhere in particular. there is a creative purpose to daydreaming, even to boredom. the best ideas come to us when we stop actively trying to coax the muse into manifesting and let the fragments of experience float around our unconscious mind in order to click into new combinations. without this essential stage of unconscious processing, the entire flow of the creative process is broken. most important, sleep. besides being the greatest creative aphrodisiac, sleep also affects our every waking moment, dictates our social rhythm, and even mediates our negative moods. be as religious and disciplined about your sleep as you are about your work. we tend to wear our ability to get by on little sleep as some sort of badge of honor that validates our work ethic. but what it really is is a profound failure of self-respect and of priorities. what could possibly be more important than your health and your sanity, from which all else springs? when people tell you who they are, maya angelou famously advised, believe them. just as important, however, when people try to tell you who you are, don’t believe them. you are the only custodian of your own integrity, and the assumptions made by those that misunderstand who you are and what you stand for reveal a great deal about them and absolutely nothing about you. presence is far more intricate and rewarding an art than productivity. ours is a culture that measures our worth as human beings by our efficiency, our earnings, our ability to perform this or that. the cult of productivity has its place, but worshipping at its altar daily robs us of the very capacity for joy and wonder that makes life worth living — for, as annie dillard memorably put it, “how we spend our days is, of course, how we spend our lives.” “expect anything worthwhile to take a long time.” this is borrowed from the wise and wonderful debbie millman, for it’s hard to better capture something so fundamental yet so impatiently overlooked in our culture of immediacy. the myth of the overnight success is just that — a myth — as well as a reminder that our present definition of success needs serious retuning. the flower doesn’t go from bud to blossom in one spritely burst and yet, as a culture, we’re disinterested in the tedium of the blossoming. but that’s where all the real magic unfolds in the making of one’s character and destiny. seek out what magnifies your spirit. patti smith, in discussing william blake and her creative influences, talks about writers and artists who magnified her spirit — it’s a beautiful phrase and a beautiful notion. who are the people, ideas, and books that magnify your spirit? find them, hold on to them, and visit them often. use them not only as a remedy once spiritual malaise has already infected your vitality but as a vaccine administered while you are healthy to protect your radiance. don’t be afraid to be an idealist. there is much to be said for our responsibility as creators and consumers of that constant dynamic interaction we call culture — which side of the fault line between catering and creating are we to stand on? the commercial enterprise is conditioning us to believe that the road to success is paved with catering to existing demands — give the people cat gifs, the narrative goes, because cat gifs are what the people want. but e.b. white, one of our last great idealists, was eternally right when he asserted half a century ago that the role of the writer is “to lift people up, not lower them down” — a role each of us is called to with increasing urgency, whatever cog we may be in the machinery of society. supply creates its own demand. only by consistently supplying it can we hope to increase the demand for the substantive over the superficial — in our individual lives and in the collective dream called culture. don’t just resist cynicism — fight it actively. fight it in yourself, for this ungainly beast lays dormant in each of us, and counter it in those you love and engage with, by modeling its opposite. cynicism often masquerades as nobler faculties and dispositions, but is categorically inferior. unlike that great rilkean life-expanding doubt, it is a contracting force. unlike critical thinking, that pillar of reason and necessary counterpart to hope, it is inherently uncreative, unconstructive, and spiritually corrosive. life, like the universe itself, tolerates no stasis — in the absence of growth, decay usurps the order. like all forms of destruction, cynicism is infinitely easier and lazier than construction. there is nothing more difficult yet more gratifying in our society than living with sincerity and acting from a place of largehearted, constructive, rational faith in the human spirit, continually bending toward growth and betterment. this remains the most potent antidote to cynicism. today, especially, it is an act of courage and resistance. and here are the three new additions, which refine some of the subtler ideas and ideals contemplated above: a reflection originally offered on the cusp of year 11, by way of a wonderful poem about pi: question your maps and models of the universe, both inner and outer, and continually test them against the raw input of reality. our maps are still maps, approximating the landscape of truth from the territories of the knowable — incomplete representational models that always leave more to map, more to fathom, because the selfsame forces that made the universe also made the figuring instrument with which we try to comprehend it. because year 12 is the year in which i finished writing figuring (though it emanates from my entire life), and because the sentiment, which appears in the prelude, is the guiding credo to which the rest of the book is a 576-page footnote, i will leave it as it stands: there are infinitely many kinds of beautiful lives. in any bond of depth and significance, forgive, forgive, forgive. and then forgive again. the richest relationships are lifeboats, but they are also submarines that descend to the darkest and most disquieting places, to the unfathomed trenches of the soul where our deepest shames and foibles and vulnerabilities live, where we are less than we would like to be. forgiveness is the alchemy by which the shame transforms into the honor and privilege of being invited into another’s darkness and having them witness your own with the undimmed light of love, of sympathy, of nonjudgmental understanding. forgiveness is the engine of buoyancy that keeps the submarine rising again and again toward the light, so that it may become a lifeboat once more. and since brain pickings is the public record of what i privately think and feel and worry and wonder about daily, here is a time machine of thought and feeling via thirteen of the pieces i have most enjoyed writing these past thirteen years: the more loving one big wolf & little wolf: a tender tale of loneliness, belonging, and how friendship transforms us how to grow old: bertrand russell on what makes a fulfilling life the difficult art of giving space in love: rilke on freedom, togetherness, and the secret to a good marriage love, lunacy, and a life fully lived: oliver sacks, the science of seeing, and the art of being seen zadie smith on optimism and despair telling is listening: ursula k. le guin on the magic of real human conversation the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power susan sontag on storytelling, what it means to be a moral human being, and her advice to writers emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert patti smith on time, transformation, and how the radiance of love redeems the rupture of loss salvation by words: iris murdoch on language as a vehicle of truth and art as a force of resistance to tyranny a brave and startling truth: astrophysicist janna levin reads maya angelou’s stunning humanist poem that flew to space, inspired by carl sagan donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published october 23, 2019 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2019/10/23/13-learnings-13-years/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under booksculturephilosophypsychology view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.