skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 13 super plugins to clone or duplicate your wordpress site 2020 13 super plugins to clone or duplicate your wordpress site 2020 march 16, 2020 vishnu plugins 0 comments below are 10 plugins to clone or duplicate your wordpress site in the simplest way possible. do you want to give your website a makeover and add some special features? do you want to try out new stuff, vary it a bit, and then perfect it as best as you can? afraid you might mess up in the process and land yourself with a broken website? wouldn’t it be nice to be able to get back to where you started before you messed up? well, you can do just that if you can clone your website and keep a copy of it safely. you can retrieve it later and use it afresh if you need. copy your entire website—folders, files, database, and all—before you attempt to make changes. this is called cloning or duplicating your website. the clone will be an exact copy of the original, with no missing portions and with all the links working just fine. why would you need to duplicate a website? you may want to shift your website from one server to another. to shift from a local development project to a live server or vice versa. a testing environment or a staging server to try out some changes. to simply back up your website. a copy for a similar project. you can copy the website manually or by using a plugin. manually duplicating a website is a tedious copy-paste process that eats into your productive time. it may be a good idea to do it once, though, so that you understand better all the work that the plugin does for you. to duplicate a file manually and install it in a new location, you will have to create an empty database at the new location. give a name to the new database. fill in and make note of the database login details, including user and privileges for the users. find export in the old server and export all the files. find import in the new database and import all the files. edit all the database references to point to the new location. connect to the new server and drag all your files from the old website using ftp. change all the urls to reflect the new location. configure the domain settings. developers need to do this many times, but doing it repeatedly is cumbersome. this is where the plugins can be of real help to you. plugins can make as many copies of the website you want, with little effort on your part. repetitive tasks are all taken care of. developers can create a template for subsequent use for different clients. it can be especially useful for big websites. many plugins will need you to create another website to which your cloned website can be saved. you should keep the following information about the new website handy: the name of the new domain the mysql database details thr ftp login details if you have a copy ready, after you enter these details and hit the clone button, you should make it a practice to go to your admin panel to save the changes to the permalinks. this will ensure that your links work properly. now, let us look at some popular plugins that will help you do all this. all-in-one wp migration like most plugins on this list, all-in-one wp migration can create a simple backup of your files. it also clones your website and installs it at a new location. you will need to install a wordpress plugin at both ends before you start the migration. the plugin interface is easy to use, and you can clone everything on your website—files, database, themes, and plugins. the screen will prompt you to replace the database strings, exclude any content that you do not want to keep, and choose a destination for your newly copied files. at the new location, you can drag and drop the files or choose the location from where it is to be imported. data are imported and exported in 3 second chunks. this helps to overcome any timeouts on account of size restrictions. once you have done this, you have to sit back and wait for the completion of the import process. when this is complete, log in to the new website and save the permalinks. the plugin can handle serialized data competently, and you will not have to mess with the urls. all database references are automatically changed. it is free, but for some functions, you will have to purchase add-ons. the many premium add-ons support a higher file upload size and enable export and storage at additional locations like amazon s3, dropbox, google drive. onedrive, and loads of others. add-ons will also help in migrating multisites. you can migrate the entire website or any part of it with this extension. this plugin has over 2 million active users making not just the most popular migration plugin but also one of the most popular plugin ever released. duplicator duplicator is a great plugin for creating a simple backup and for migrating your website. both free and paid versions are available. the free version includes the migration wizard. if you have limited technical knowledge, the authors advise you to seek professional help, at least for the first use of this plugin. you can push your files and folders to a new location and pull them from there. with a few clicks, the plugin will scan the entire website and put it neatly into packages. at the end of this packaging, you will have a zip archive file containing your entire website, as well as an installer file. you can archive all the files and directories and the entire database from wordpress, but you can also choose to exclude portions of it. move the archive and installer files to any location you choose—a local host, a new server, or a specified external storage. you can then access the installer file via a browser and start the redeployment. the installer file will extract all your files and create a copy of the database. after this, a click on the update button will update all the urls. the premium version can handle multisite migration and scheduled backups. custom search, replace, and backup to additional storage locations like google drive, dropbox, and ftp are possible. you can also create custom templates to replicate your system settings faster. apply custom filters and choose what you want to backup. if you wish, you can backup the database alone. a one-year subscription will cost you $39 to $119, with renewal fees at discounted rates. the plugin also offers a 30-day money back guarantee. wp migrate db wp migrate db copies your database install from one website to another. you must install and activate this plugin on both the original location and the destination server. you can exclude data that you do not want to keep. fill in the new address and the file path in the plugin installed in the current website. the files will then be zipped and saved on your computer, ready for export. in the new location, you will have to import the files using the phpmyadmin. only a database migration is possible with this plugin. it can handle serialized data by identifying strings and running a find and replace task on them. this plugin will allow you to push and pull files from two connected sites. you can do this from the backend of wordpress. if you want to clone your entire website, you will have to upgrade to the premium versions of this plugin. the starter package (personal) at $90 will not suffice, though. to realize the full potential of the plugin, you will need to look at the higher-priced packages, which range from $199 to $1,000. these come with support for multisites, priority email support, and updates for a year. updraft plus updraft plus, with 700,000+ active installs (equal to that of duplicator) and a 4.9 star rating, is without a doubt a popular plugin for cloning a website. it is primarily for creating backups, but the premium versions can be used for cloning and migration as well. back up your files and database at different times. exclude files that you don’t want to keep while backing up. you can also schedule your backups to happen automatically. split larger sites into multiple archives and resume failed uploads. restore selectively and automatically from a backed-up version. there will be no need to change urls manually. the premium version supports migration and multisite compatibility. it also provides additional storage options, and you can encrypt the backup versions. purchase the premium packages for $70, $95, and $145. they offer almost the same features, but the number of sites that they can be used with will vary. backup buddy backup buddy is a premium only plugin. it is an easy migration tool that doubles nicely as a cloning tool. the restore/migrate page is the place to start for your cloning process. backup buddy will give you a complete version of your wordpress in a zip file format. back up just the database or run a complete backup. schedule automatic backups. set up different profiles for different backups, so you can work with the version you want. download the importbuddy script to your computer. next, from the same page, download the backup zip file that lies with your backups. if you are moving it to another location in the same server, you can simply copy or paste it in htdocs or in a folder. you can use a subdirectory for this. create a new database, and enter the credentials while importing. you can then move to another server right from your wordpress admin. all the urls are replaced. if you are exporting to another location, then use ftp. upload it to a root directory. you can then open the uploaded content using a browser. using your password, follow the series of clicks as directed on the screen and fill in the url and new database settings. test that the website has been successfully installed in the new location by visiting the link displayed. after that, allow the cleanup and remove the temporary files used while cloning. with backup buddy, you can push and pull files easily between the staging environment and the productions site. this is particularly useful to developers. however, it doesn’t support multisites. different packages of backup buddy are available at prices ranging from $80 per year to a lifetime payment of $297. managewp managewp is not really a plugin. it is a wordpress maintenance service that helps you to manage all your wordpress sites from one single dashboard. it can handle huge database and replace url in serialized data after cloning. a new wordpress installation will be required. managewp does not handle cloning multisite installations. it also includes detailed tutorials to guide you through the cloning and migration process. the clone or migrate wizard is included only in the professional and business packages. these packages will cost you $2.4 per month and $4.8 per month. the standard package at $0.80 per month can merely backup and restore a website. cloner cloner is one more plugin that can clone your wordpress site. it is designed specially to work within multisite networks. in short, you can use it to copy any part of your site or a single site and move it to another url within the same network. as a safety measure, you can backup your entire site or you can copy just the part that you want to move. and after that, you can simply hit the clone button and watch cloner do all the work for you. you can choose to clone only selected items and you can assign names to the cloned versions. cloner can then push the changes to the live site. you can create templates and use them to quickly create sites. backup copies of important sites can be maintained. the site can be overwritten to deploy the changes. the plugin integrates well with the multisite core and it is built to handle heavy loads. you will have to pay $19 per month to download and use cloner. duplicate post duplicate post – hence the name – allows you to duplicate any post that you want. it is pretty straightforward, as it does not really require any knowledge to be able to use it. with this free wordpress plugin, you can duplicate or clone the post that you want and save it as a draft for further editing and improving. for your information, this plugin also allows for duplicating pages. once you are in the admin section, you will see an option to clone the post that you want just under the title (appears on mouse hover). moreover, if you are interested in cloning several posts, you can use the bulk feature, too. additionally, you will see a new function appear inside the post when editing, and you can even copy it directly in a new draft. duplicate page a pretty similar plugin compared to the previous one, offering you to quickly duplicate, posts, custom posts and pages. using a single click, of course! duplicate page plugin gets you going immediately, offering you to create as many new duplicates as you want. moreover, you can set the duplicate as draft, private, public or pending. the options are right at your fingertips. once you install and activate the plugin, you will see it appear in the settings category in the left menu of your admin panel. from then on, you can set different parameters for how you would like duplicate page plugin to operate and go from there. you can also set user roles, who is able to use the function, like admin only, editor, author, etc. wp staging while some plugins offer you to clone and duplicate posts and pages, the others offer you to create a copy of your entire website. as for the latter, you would want to use wp staging. it is a simple and powerful tool that handles small and large sites with ease. of course, depending on the size of your website, you can expect longer or shorter times that it needs to clone your page. however, that is something that wp staging does in the background anyway. moreover, wp staging is an excellent tool when you are planning to install a new plugin that you might not be 100% sure that is compatible with your website. heck, even when it comes to the gutenberg block builder, not all wordpress themes and plugins are compatible with it. thus, create a clone with wp staging first and be safe than sorry. migrate guru if you would like to migrate or clone your wordpress website, regardless of its advanced structure or size, migrate guru is the plugin that you should consider using. since the popular blogvault powers it, migrate guru guarantees safe and secure migration of your page without the need to risk anything. and, as mentioned previously, if you would like to clone your web space, migrate guru is the tool that you can use, too. no manual work at all. core features of migrate guru are one-click migration, no overload on site, no add-ons, no storage space necessary, as well as compatibility with every web hosting provider. migrate guru’s real-time status will also keep you updated with alerts and notifications about the migration or cloning process. in conclusion and to simplify the method, all it takes are four simple steps and the migration process begins. cms commander cms commander is not merely a cloning plugin. it does a lot more – it helps to manage multiple wordpress sites. it manages user accounts, comments and content, copy blog settings, post blogs in bulk, install and update many plugins in one go. schedule automatic backups and save them in your computer or in specified external storage options. you can choose to backup the entire site or just the database. when you clone the site, everything including the current settings are copied. as a result, you will have an identical, pre configured website that you can use for another project or to try out changes. cloning is done in a two step process. in the clone page, first you click on the icon next to the website that you want to copy. an exact copy of that website will be made. if you wish, you can exclude portions of it before you copy. in the second step, choose the destination to where you want the copy placed. then hit the clone button and your work is done. in addition, you can also restore a website from a previously backed up copy. the plugin, with all the premium features is available for free trial, after which you can continue with the basic features for free. backup and cloning is available only with the premium packages which range from $8 per month to $75 per month. xcloner xcloner uses open source standard formats which gives you choice in the way you restore your website copies. the plugin will help you to backup and restore any php/mysql application. you can create customs backups and share it with others. you can restore the backup almost anywhere with the help of an automatic restore script. to conclude i have discussed 10 plugins which can be used to clone and duplicate your website. to sum up, all of them can do a fairly competent job. however, the level of technical knowledge required may differ for the plugins. developers who have to move databases frequently between sites may prefer wp migrate db pro. the free version of updraft plus will allow backup to a remote location. wp clone and all-in-one wp migration offer cloning function in the free version, without having to upgrade to premium. now, you can go ahead and make as many copies of your website as you want, and move things about as you please. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. all in one migrationbackup buddyclonercms commanderduplicatormanage wpplugins to cloneplugins to duplicateupdraft pluswordpress pluginswp clonewp migrate dbxcloner share this share tweet pin it share vishnu vishnu is a freelance writer by night, works as a data analyst by day. related posts 17 best custom login page generator plugins for wordpress 2020 why do we buy a wordpress theme? because we don't want our site to look… awesome ad banner management plugins for your wordpress monetizing is a big part of website management. while some bloggers keep their sites ad-free… top 16 popup plugins for wordpress to get more subscribers and improve conversion rates 2020 looking for wordpress popup plugins for your project? we have reviewed and compared the best… 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue to start making the most with your blog, the simplest way is to use one… top 28 free and premium wordpress slider plugins 2020 if you haven't been living under a rock for the last two years, you'll know… top 28 free wpbakery page builder (visual composer) addons & extensions for wordpress 2020 wpbakery page builder was the first-ever wordpress plugin for building pages that support addons/plugins. wpbakery… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 10 functional google drive plugins to use on your site next post: 17 essential plugins for wordpress multisite 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×