start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on august 12, 2019 13 things mentally strong people don’t do amy morin a psychotherapist, psychology instructor, keynote speaker, and the author of the bestselling book 13 things mentally strong people don't do read full profile share pin it tweet share email mentally strong people have healthy habits. they manage their emotions, thoughts, and behaviors in ways that set them up for success in life. take a look at these 13 things that mentally strong people don’t do so that you too can become mentally stronger. 1. they don’t waste time feeling sorry for themselves mentally strong people don’t sit around feeling sorry about their circumstances or how others have treated them. instead, they take responsibility for their role in life and understand that life isn’t always easy or fair. 2. they don’t give away their power they don’t allow others to control them, and they don’t give someone else power over them. they don’t say things like, “my boss makes me feel bad,” because they understand that they are in control over their own emotions and they have a choice in how they respond. advertising 3. they don’t shy away from change mentally strong people don’t try to avoid change. instead, they welcome positive change and are willing to be flexible. they understand that change is inevitable and believe in their abilities to adapt. 4. they don’t waste energy on things they can’t control you won’t hear a mentally strong person complaining over lost luggage or traffic jams. instead, they focus on what they can control in their lives. they recognize that sometimes, the only thing they can control is their attitude. 5. they don’t worry about pleasing everyone mentally strong people recognize that they don’t need to please everyone all the time. they’re not afraid to say no or speak up when necessary. they strive to be kind and fair, but can handle other people being upset if they didn’t make them happy. 6. they don’t fear taking calculated risks they don’t take reckless or foolish risks, but don’t mind taking calculated risks. mentally strong people spend time weighing the risks and benefits before making a big decision, and they’re fully informed of the potential downsides before they take action. advertising 7. they don’t dwell on the past mentally strong people don’t waste time dwelling on the past and wishing things could be different. they acknowledge their past and can say what they’ve learned from it. however, they don’t constantly relive bad experiences or fantasize about the glory days. instead, they live for the present and plan for the future. 8. they don’t make the same mistakes over and over mentally strong people accept responsibility for their behavior and learn from their past mistakes. as a result, they don’t keep repeating those mistakes over and over. instead, they move on and make better decisions in the future. 9. they don’t resent other people’s success mentally strong people can appreciate and celebrate other people’s success in life. they don’t grow jealous or feel cheated when others surpass them. instead, they recognize that success comes with hard work, and they are willing to work hard for their own chance at success. advertising 10. they don’t give up after the first failure mentally strong people don’t view failure as a reason to give up. instead, they use failure as an opportunity to grow and improve. they are willing to keep trying until they get it right. 11. they don’t fear alone time mentally strong people can tolerate being alone and they don’t fear silence. they aren’t afraid to be alone with their thoughts and they can use downtime to be productive. they enjoy their own company and aren’t dependent on others for companionship and entertainment all the time but instead can be happy alone. 12. they don’t feel the world owes them anything mentally strong people don’t feel entitled to things in life. they weren’t born with a mentality that others would take care of them or that the world must give them something. instead, they look for opportunities based on their own merits. advertising 13. they don’t expect immediate results whether they are working on improving their health or getting a new business off the ground, mentally strong people don’t expect immediate results. instead, they apply their skills and time to the best of their ability and understand that real change takes time. more about mental strength what is resilience and why is it important? 7 things to remember when going through tough times in life how to develop mental toughness to help you stay strong how to build resilience to face what life throws at you featured photo credit: candice picard via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is resilience and why is it important? how to take calculated risk to achieve success we don’t need a lot of self-help books, we need resilience advertising advertising more by this author amy morin a psychotherapist, psychology instructor, keynote speaker, and the author of the bestselling book 13 things mentally strong people don't do how to think positive thoughts when feeling negative 12 ways to improve social skills and make you sociable anytime 6 mistakes that keep you struggling in life and stuck 13 things mentally strong people don’t do 60 things to be thankful for in life advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness more by this author amy morin a psychotherapist, psychology instructor, keynote speaker, and the author of the bestselling book 13 things mentally strong people don't do how to think positive thoughts when feeling negative 12 ways to improve social skills and make you sociable anytime 6 mistakes that keep you struggling in life and stuck 13 things mentally strong people don’t do 60 things to be thankful for in life trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void you are not your thoughts: 10 ways to get rid of unhealthy thoughts advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.