home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy second trimester prevnext 13 weeks pregnant – ultrasound scan day! leyla preston sun 6th jun 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 13 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. finally, my very first pregnancy ultrasound scan day had arrived, and i was so excited. i couldn’t concentrate on work or anything for that matter because i was finally going to meet our baby after three months of wondering what s/he looked like. it was another beautiful hot day, so i asked to leave early to get to my appointment on time. as i got to the hospital a niggling feeling started to rise at the back of my head. what if i wasn’t actually pregnant and i didn’t have a baby in my belly? what if i didn’t take enough folic acid and the baby developed spina bifida? what if the baby was deformed? hubby had to tell me to calm down and advised that i only concentrate on the positive things as i hadn’t stopped worrying for 13 weeks. he was right, i am such a worrier sometimes. when we got to the waiting room, there were so many other pregnant women waiting to be seen. a nurse took us into the ultrasound scan room where a woman, the sonographer, was waiting patiently for us. we had paid for a dvd and as many photos as we could get, so the sonographer placed a blank cd in the machine and hit the record button. she placed some warm jelly on my belly and started moving the transceiver around. we stared at the screen on the ultrasound machine, which was blank for a couple of seconds as she tried to find the right place on my belly then, all of a sudden, a little white silhouette of a baby came into view. hubby and i stared at the screen dumbfounded. the silhouette looked like a proper baby. the sonographer dug into my belly to find the right place to measure the back of the baby’s neck, who measured at just 6.8cm. s/he looked so peaceful in there, just resting away and probably enjoying a good sleep. the lady prodded at my belly some more to show us the spine, brain, heartbeat and all the limbs. everything looked perfect. the baby had woken up now and was jabbing away at my uterus. from that moment on, hubby and i decided to call the little one, ‘boxer’, and we were both sure it was a boy as well. it was such an emotional moment for us that we finally got to see boxer. as we were staring gooey eyed at the screen, the sonographer advised us that she was going to check the uterine artery blood flow to our baby. when she finished she took some still pictures of boxer before she handed the cd back to us. we were brimming with pride – we finally got to meet our boxer. the blood test results had come back and i was measured at 1 in 15000 for down’s syndrome, and 1 in 25000 for heart defects which were low risk. i was so happy as i was really dreading having that amniocentesis, where they stick a needle in my bump. phew! i thought i saw hubby shed a few tears before we left the hospital too and that caused me to want to well up as well, but i pulled it together and we left the hospital, clutching pictures of our unborn boxer. 13 week scan of our little baby boxer hubby and i had a picnic in the park and talked about how we were going to raise the baby. we decided that we were going to save up as much as we could for a deposit on a house, and we figured that a car would be really useful too, as we would need to transport the baby round to certain places. that night, i couldn’t stop staring at pictures of boxer. this was our baby. i never thought i could feel so much love for someone who hadn’t been born yet. a fun fact – your baby is now about 7.5cm long from crown to rump and weighs nearly 23 grams. the science part your baby at 13 weeks your little one’s body is catching up with their head now your baby’s thyroid has begun to produce hormones need to regulate bodily functions your baby is producing white blood cells they will need to stay healthy once born the ears are almost in the right position at the sides of the head your baby is nearly doubling in weight each week now! your pregnancy signs and symptoms welcome to the second trimester! well done for surviving the first trimester. you should be starting to get some respite from the morning sickness now. if not then not to worry, it won’t be long now your energy levels should also pick up a bit as well you will start to notice your belly growing! have you started to experience vivid dreams during the second trimester? you may still be craving your favourite foods are you starting to experience heartburn? your baby is still lacking in healthy fat to keep them warm, so their skin is transparent at the moment your next steps have you been able to hold off wearing maternity clothes? it may be time to start thinking about changing your attire to accommodate your growing bump. exercise is a great way to control your metabolism and stabilise your system. it can also help to prevent gestational diabetes take pictures of your growing bump – you will start to notice it grow now eat lots of protein to nourish your baby and strengthen those building blocks your baby can taste what you eat and may shape their food preferences later in life you may want to start telling your friends and family now note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:amniocentesisdown's syndromefolic acidhospitalnursepregnantscansonographerspina bifidauterine artery blood flowuterus related posts 30 weeks pregnant – we’re mo... should you really eat for two during pre... jack’s birth story birth partners: doula or don’t ya? 7 weeks pregnant – i’m tired all t... alfie’s birth story sm’s birth story planning for the baby budget: how to pre... 11 weeks pregnant – how long does ... 20 weeks pregnant – my second scan... 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... 24 weeks pregnant – does drinking ... 23 weeks pregnant – babies come wi... 39 weeks pregnant – no sign of lab... 32 weeks pregnant – things are rea... aidan’s birth story 28 weeks pregnant – i can hear my ... 10 weeks pregnant – appointment letters ... 25 weeks pregnant – i have a noctu... 5 weeks pregnant – can you feel th... 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... 21 weeks pregnant – found a new jo... the benefits of walking during pregnancy early signs of labour – and what t... 19 weeks pregnant – have i develop... agatha’s birth story imogen’s birth story what to pack in your hospital bag for la... 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... 22 weeks pregnant – braxton hicks ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok