home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog my 14 day keto diet – my results are in! september 17, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment day 14 of my two week keto diet experiment it’s day 14 ya’ll!!! i survived my 14 day keto diet experiment and i’m here to share my last day experiences as well as my overall weight loss and feelings about how i feel about the diet in general. i can’t believe it’s been two weeks already! what i ate breakfast/lunch i had to run to the passport office to get a new passport today and while i was out and about i grabbed an 8 piece of chick-fil-a grilled chicken nuggets. i’ve heard good things about them but honestly, after experiencing all the other excellent things at chick-fil-a (hello spicy chicken sandwich and waffle fries!), the grilled nugs were just meh. they are definitely keto friendly so they work if you’re in a bind on the go, but def not my favorite thing i’ve eaten. i was kind of bummed since i’ve heard great things. the one star of my snack was dunking them into the buttermilk ranch because that’s keto! overall the 8 piece nugs and one ranch was only 3g of net carbs. dinner for dinner tonight i was craving a big old quesadilla and guess what? i had myself a big ol’ keto friendly quesadilla that was only 6g of net carbs! i found these keto friendly tortillas that are pretty good and only 3g of net carbs each. there are so many different recipes i can’t wait to use these with soon. i just added some shredded cheese, baked it on my pizzazz pizza cooker (that i cook almost everything on – i swear it’s magical) and dipped it in hot sauce and sour cream. yum! other i satisfied my sweets craving after dinner tonight with with my favorite keto brownie and it always tastes oh so good as always! i need to order more asap. i’m officially out. side effects no side effects at all today. i was a bit nauseous today but i think that’s more hormone related than diet related so i won’t chalk that up to keto flu symptoms. workout honestly, throughout the whole two week keto diet experiment, i didn’t work out nearly as much as i thought i would have. i thought i was going to be a maniac to see how much weight i’d lose but i decided to make this experiment more about the results from the diet alone without a rigorous workout routine to supplement it. macros / nutrition as mentioned above, my goal is to stick to 25 net calories or less each day. when i say “net carbs” that means grams of carbs minus grams of fiber = net carbs. my macros ended up looking like this at the end of the day. i’m not trying to hit any fat/fiber/protein goals, just strictly keeping an eye on my net carbs being under 25 at this point. i’m tracking my nutrition through the app called carb manager. so far it’s super easy to use and i love that it is calculates your net carbs for you without having to do the math. below are my macros of my last day of the two week keto diet plan. there weren’t many days that i was even close to 25g which is very surprising to this carb loving girl. net carbs: 11g fiber: 14g fat: 56g protein: 57g ketone levels my ketone levels stayed around the “moderate (40) 4.0” level. maybe a tiny bit lighter than yesterday but that’s an excellent place to be. i think this is a level i can maintain for sure. to test this, i’m using strips called ketone script. you just dip a strip in your urine and after 40 seconds you can see your ketosis levels. so simple and the bottle comes with 150 strips!! this little bottle was less than $7 bucks and will last me forever. my current measurements / weight drum roll please!!! my official two week keto diet weight loss results are below!! starting weight: 158.8 lbs today’s weight: 152.5 lbs weight lost on keto diet: down 6.3 pounds in two weeks!!!! i’m beyond thrilled with over 6 pounds lost in just two weeks. seriously!! it makes me want to keep going and i think i just may. **update: after 17 days on the keto diet, i’ve now lost 8.9 pounds!!** overall thoughts of my two week keto diet expriement to be honest, i really enjoyed the last two weeks. i feel like the beginning was a bit challenging because i wasn’t sure what to eat but i quickly learned and started experimenting with different recipes after a few days. once i had more food options available to me, i felt like it could be a much more maintainable diet. it’s been very eye opening to me to learn about net carbs. now when i check nutrition labels in the store before purchasing something, net carbs and fiber will always be something i look at. it’s amazing how many carbs were in some of my staples i was used to eating previously. that will definitely change. the best part about the keto diet for me is that i rarely felt hungry. even though my macros and calories were under what i probably should have been at, i just listened to my body. if i was hungry, i’d eat. if i wasn’t, i didn’t force myself to eat. by eating higher fat foods, i absolutely noticed that my appetite decreased and i got fuller faster and stayed full longer. that in itself makes me want to keep doing this diet. the second best part of the diet is that it works on diet alone. i rarely worked out and i still saw great results. i’m in no way telling you not to workout because it’s great for overall health but i believe this was a great experiment to prove that the keto diet without exercising works well for weight loss as well! i can’t imagine the results i would have seen if i had worked out a ton along with the diet!! i won’t be posting daily now that my two week keto diet has come to the end but i do plan on staying keto or at least low carb. if i can lose 6 pounds in two weeks i can only imagine how great i’ll feel (and look) if i just make some lower carb decisions on a regular basis. i really appreciate you following along my journey and keeping me accountable to stick with it for the two weeks. love you all! other posts that may interest you: yesterday – day 12-13 on the keto diet eating clean grocery list 50 funny workout tanks best keto friendly alcohol choice – keto claws! my compound leg day workout filed under: keto diet, nutrition, personal tagged with: 14 day keto diet, diet, keto diet, my weight loss experiement you may also enjoy: comment here! facebook wordpress please enable javascript to view the comments powered by google+. loading facebook comments ... please enable javascript to view the comments powered by facebook. leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in