can't get enough treehugger? sign up now and have it sent straight to your inbox. daily and weekly newsletters available. email address email is required newsletters the daily newsletter the weekly newsletter subscribe × health 14 myths about coronavirus (covid-19) design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows driving sustainability mainstream design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows about contact newsletters advertisement living health 14 myths about coronavirus (covid-19) melissa breyer melissabreyer march 10, 2020 © stopperohana in a world of rapidly disseminated information, and misinformation, the who has published a list of mythbusters. the internet is a marvel of amazingness. but with all marvels of amazingness, it has its drawbacks – the most pressing which may be the rate at which it spreads misinformation. whether repeating incorrect public statements, circulating wacky conspiracy theories, or popularizing straight up wives' tales, there is a lot of fiction out there being peddled as fact. and it's all fun and games ... until a pandemic hits! with this in mind, the world health organization (who) has published a list of mythbusters regarding the new coronavirus, and we thought we would do our part in helping spread the facts. myth: cold weather and snow can kill the new coronavirus who/public domain the who says that there is no reason to believe that cold weather can kill the new coronavirus or other diseases – the normal body temperature remains generally constant, regardless of the weather. "the most effective way to protect yourself against the new coronavirus is by frequently cleaning your hands with alcohol-based hand rub or washing them with soap and water," they add. myth: taking a hot bath prevents the new coronavirus who/public domain taking a hot bath will not prevent you from catching covid-19. as with cold weather, the normal body temperature remains constant, regardless of the temperature of your bath or shower. the who adds that an extremely hot bath may actually burn you. myth: the new coronavirus can be transmitted through goods manufactured in china or any country reporting covid-19 cases who/public domain "even though the new coronavirus can stay on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days (depending on the type of surface), it is very unlikely that the virus will persist on a surface after being moved, travelled, and exposed to different conditions and temperatures," notes the organization. myth: the new coronavirus can be transmitted through mosquitoes who/public domain there has yet to be any information or evidence suggesting that the new coronavirus can be transmitted by mosquitoes. as a respiratory virus, the new coronavirus spreads primarily through "droplets generated when an infected person coughs or sneezes, or through droplets of saliva or discharge from the nose." myth: hand dryers are effective in killing the new coronavirus who/public domain hand dryers are not effective in killing the new coronavirus. that said, you should frequently clean your hands and dry them. myth: ultraviolet disinfection lamps should be used to sterilize hands who/public domain the who puts it bluntly: "uv lamps should not be used to sterilize hands or other areas of skin as uv radiation can cause skin irritation." myth: thermal scanners are decisive in detecting the new coronavirus who/public domain while thermal scanners can detect people who have developed a fever because of infection with the new coronavirus, they do not detect people who may be infected but are not yet experiencing fever. it takes between two and 10 days before people who are infected become sick and develop a fever. myth: spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body will kill the new coronavirus who/public domain don't do this. spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body will not kill viruses that have already entered your body; but they can be harmful to the mucous membranes the who notes, "be aware that both alcohol and chlorine can be useful to disinfect surfaces, but they need to be used under appropriate recommendations." myth: vaccines against pneumonia can protect you against the new coronavirus who/public domain vaccines against pneumonia, like pneumococcal vaccine and haemophilus influenza type b (hib) vaccine, do not provide protection against the new coronavirus. the new virus is so novel that it requires its own vaccine, which researchers are working on. myth: regularly rinsing your nose with saline can help prevent infection with the new coronavirus who/public domain while there is some evidence that regularly rinsing the nose with saline can help people get over the common cold more quickly, regularly rinsing the nose has not been shown to prevent respiratory infections. "there is no evidence that regularly rinsing the nose with saline has protected people from infection with the new coronavirus," states the organization. myth: eating garlic can help prevent infection with the new coronavirus who/public domain garlic is a superfood that may have some antimicrobial properties, but, "there is no evidence from the current outbreak that eating garlic has protected people from the new coronavirus." myth: the new coronavirus only affects older people who/public domain people of all ages can be infected by the new coronavirus, but older people and people with pre-existing medical conditions (such as asthma, diabetes, heart disease) appear to be more vulnerable to becoming severely ill. but not exclusively, as can be seen in this news clip showing a very sick 32-year-old man who had no pre-existing conditions. myth: antibiotics are effective in preventing and treating the new coronavirus who/public domain antibiotics kill bacteria; coronavirus is, yes, a virus. antibiotics should not be used as a means of prevention or treatment, however, antibiotics may be given at the hospital when bacterial co-infection is possible. myth: there are specific medicines to prevent or treat the new coronavirus who/public domain as of now, there is no specific medicine recommended to prevent or treat the new coronavirus. however, notes the who, "those infected with the virus should receive appropriate care to relieve and treat symptoms, and those with severe illness should receive optimized supportive care."for more information, visit these pages. and don't forget to wash your hands! who coronavirus disease (covid-19) outbreak cdc coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19)editor's note: myth number six has been updated to more accurately reflect the who's language on ultraviolet disinfection lamps. coronavirus diseases health medicine wellness 14 myths about coronavirus (covid-19) in a world of rapidly disseminated information, and misinformation, the who has published a list of mythbusters. related content on treehugger.com how to prepare for a quarantine if you have soap and water, don't fret about hand sanitizer cdc says this is one of the most important steps to avoid illness coronavirus is threatening the zero waste movement study shows flu may be spread just by breathing 13 crazy facts about the common cold touring the toilets of le corbusier why aren't people more worried about the epidemic of poor diet? facebook twitter pinterest please enable javascript to view the comments. most popular right now the top us states for homesteading, tiny homes, and off-grid living here's what the real patch adams has been up to common household products that can kill the coronavirus alley cat laneway house looks a lot bigger than it is jupe health is an 'immediate response to hospital overcrowding' what's hot on facebook teach your child how to read a paper map 20 things to do with chickpeas this pandemic is changing how my family eats cdc lists oil of lemon eucalyptus as comparable to deet for mosquitoes about contact newsletters rss privacy policy copyright © 2020 narrative content group. all rights reserved