home travel tips hostel tips solo female travel budget bus travel street art in europe travel gear tour reviews free walking tours food tours history, art & culture destinations belgium bruges brussels england bosham cambridge chichester exeter lancaster manchester london portsmouth hayling island france paris germany berlin hamburg gozo greece athens hungary budapest italy florence rome montenegro bay of kotor morocco agadir imsouane legzira taghazout tamraght essaouira fez marrakech netherlands amsterdam rotterdam the hague portugal figueira da foz lisbon scotland edinburgh slovakia bratislava spain ibiza madrid valencia hostel reviews hostels in austria hostels in belgium hostels in france hostels in germany hostels in greece hostels in italy hostels in morocco hostels in the netherlands hostels in portugal hostels in spain hostels in the uk hostel guide hostel tips hostel jobs about work with me media kit portfolio newsletter the hostel guide ebook home travel tips hostel tips solo female travel budget bus travel street art in europe travel gear tour reviews free walking tours food tours history, art & culture destinations belgium bruges brussels england bosham cambridge chichester exeter lancaster manchester london portsmouth hayling island france paris germany berlin hamburg gozo greece athens hungary budapest italy florence rome montenegro bay of kotor morocco agadir imsouane legzira taghazout tamraght essaouira fez marrakech netherlands amsterdam rotterdam the hague portugal figueira da foz lisbon scotland edinburgh slovakia bratislava spain ibiza madrid valencia hostel reviews hostels in austria hostels in belgium hostels in france hostels in germany hostels in greece hostels in italy hostels in morocco hostels in the netherlands hostels in portugal hostels in spain hostels in the uk hostel guide hostel tips hostel jobs home travel tips 14 top travellers and travel bloggers to follow on snapchat travel tips 14 top travellers and travel bloggers to follow on snapchat written by katie dawes august 6, 2015 put your hands in the air like you just don’t care if you love snapchat. or put your phone in the air… which is what happens when you’re in a room of travel bloggers like i was last weekend at icelolly.com‘s #blogatthebeach event. we went snapchat mad… from left to right: frances (snap: frances_mb), daisy (snap: pgtdaisy), & sophie (snap: onetenzeroseven). shared stories & snapchats over cocktails with @frances_m_b @prettygreentea @the_hostelgirl & @lucyunderthesky – these gals are so much fun! — sophie (@onetenzeroseven) august 2, 2015 top travellers and travel bloggers to follow on snapchat 1. expat edna (snap: expatedna) i should point out that this list is in no particular order, but it’s just a coincidence that expat edna is one of the first travel snapchatters i thought of putting on this list. a full time traveller based out of paris, edna is fun and sweet and never fails to snap at least part of your day so you can keep up with her travels! 2. barrett caldwell (snap: uscgmtb) so barrett ‘bear’ caldwell hasn’t updated his travel blog in a while… which obviously leaves him more time for snapchat which is fine by me! this guy is hilarious, often spotted snapping the great american outdoors. i think he’s pretending to be bear grylls here… 3. lonely planet (snap: lpsnapz) woop! the ultimate travellers and actually surprisingly good snapchat photographers, the lonely planet snapchat account is a must for those with a lust for adventure! 4. drew binsky (snap: drewbinsky) the undisputed king of snapchat travellers everywhere, drew’s snaps are full of fun activities with locals and huge parties! i’ve never been a festival girl so i continue to live vicariously through his festival snaps! he’s also put together a list of his 9 favourite travellers to follow on snapchat and there’s a few extra that aren’t on this list so make sure to check it out! 5. adventurous kate (snap: adventurouskate) we all love adventurous kate‘s writing and now we can all love her friendly face and never-ending travel tips through the magic of snapchat. 6. damon and jo (snap: damonandjo) i’ve been a big fan of damon and jo’s youtube channel for a long time now and they are just as fun to follow around on their adventures on snapchat! sassy, streetwise and smart these travelling buddies will keep you entertained and informed. 7. ben brown (snap: mr.benbrown) as we’re talking about youtubers we may as well continue with one of the top guys – ben brown. he entertains over 384,000 youtube followers with daily travel vlogs but, just in case seeing him every day isn’t enough he also shares his life on snapchat! along with some friends… can anyone guess who he is snapping below? 8. chris & heather (snap: abritsoutherner) these guys are so much fun, both on their blog and on snapchat! i’m also slightly biased because they were in nashville not long ago and i got to see one of my bucket-list cities up close and personal through their seemingly-endless stream of fabulous snaps! 9. amanda williams (snap: dangerousbiz) amanda runs the travel blog a dangerous business and her snaps are full of sneak peeks at all the countries she’s been to! whilst i’m not sure if her snaps leave me more jealous or inspired, i still can’t seem to get enough of them… 10. topdeck travel (snap: topdeck.travel) topdeck travel are a travel tour company which means that they are everywhere, all the time. which means you get one snap from amsterdam and then another from stockholm… where next? you’ll have to follow them to find out. 11. angloitalian (snap: ai_followus) if you’re not reading the angloitalian blog then you really should be. two of my favourite travel bloggers for a long time now, i was so excited to spot them on snapchat the other day! 12. michael hodson (snap: michaelshodson) i seriously love this guy’s snaps! the travel blogger behind go see write, michael’s snaps really capture the life of the destination he is in. 13. scott tisson (snap: intrepidescape) scott runs the adventurous travel blog intrepid escape and his adventurous side definitely shows in his snaps! i’m not sure if i’d be brave enough to take my phone out to snapchat myself at the top of a fairground ride after a few drinks at a festival… but he definitely is! 14. and don’t forget…the hostel girl! (snap: the_hostelgirl) i’m totally putting myself in here just because i talk to you guys through snapchat all the bloody time so you may as well start chatting back! i also let you in on a lot of travel secrets of the cities i’m in just because sometimes shooting a snapchat video is way easier than trying to squeeze the tip in to 140 characters on twitter! see you on the snappy side! and p.s. click here if you want your own cool customised snapcode like mine! lots of love, like it? pin it! 14 top travellers and travel bloggers to follow on snapchat was last modified: april 4th, 2017 by katie dawes lots of love, 32 comments 0 facebook twitter google + pinterest katie dawes aka the hostel girl, i have a passion for travel & the hostel community, most especially for the community that unites people of all backgrounds under the same roofs internationally. previous post fermez la bouche et faire la bise: french cheek kissing etiquette next post all aboard the wandering duck canal boat adventure! you may also like how to make friends in hostels while... may 17, 2017 how will brexit affect travel in europe? april 14, 2017 how to photograph european landmarks january 16, 2017 the best budget airline reward schemes in... december 30, 2016 obi worldphone mv1 review – the best... december 3, 2016 dorm rooms vs. private rooms in a... november 1, 2016 how to travel europe on a budget... august 24, 2016 meditation for travellers, inspired by southsea sangha... july 6, 2016 travelling europe by bus: how to book... may 13, 2016 tips and tricks for hostel travel may 2, 2016 recent jobs hostelmanager or frontoffice/backoffice manager bangkok revolution hostels paid business development manager at generator hostel berlin berlin, germany generator hostels paid a major network is looking stars for a new series about hostels! united states paid reception team vacancies in barcelona barcelona casa gracia host/hostess budva, montenegro littlest hobo hostel paid & work exchange various positions at generator hostels europe generator hostels paid various positions at st christopher’s inns hostels europe st christopher's inns paid breakfast and beds assistant for backpackers hostel london, england paid part-time receptionist wanted for backpackers hostel london, england hootananny brixton paid hostel general manager – yha bath bath, england yha paid follow me on facebook facebook follow me on instagram load more…follow on instagram follow me on pinterest recent posts goodbye from the hostel girl january 3, 2019 8.0 review: meininger hotel milan march 23, 2018 female only hostels for solo female travellers march 16, 2018 discovering the best of rome in a day – with the roman guy march 9, 2018 tor marancia street art in rome: murals with social consequences february 21, 2018 resources official partners register today! download today! book your next hostel today! booking.com @the_hostelgirl no images found! try some other hashtag or username facebook twitter instagram pinterest youtube email katie@thehostelgirl.com copyright © 2014 - 2019 the hostel girl unless credited elsewhere, all content (written and photographic) is property of the hostel girl and should not be used without permission. if you wish to reproduce content found here please contact me via the email above.