worksheets all topics a-z grammar vocabulary speaking reading listening writing pronunciation virtual classroom articles posters books more worksheets by season 600 creative writing prompts warmers, fillers & ice-breakers coloring pages to print flashcards classroom management worksheets emergency worksheets revision worksheets resources we recommend busyteacher home » vocabulary free vocabulary worksheets learning vocabulary is essential for learning any language, but it can be difficult to memorize without resources. busyteacher.org offers 14,321 printable vocabulary worksheets in several different categories, all of which are great for you to use with your students. vocabulary is a key component in helping students with word building. more often than not, students become stuck when speaking about their interests or jobs because they don’t know enough vocabulary to express themselves. using these worksheets as a resource will help them build sentences as they learn to use the english language with ease. when used as homework assignments, these worksheets will make sure that students continue to use the words learned in the classroom at home, and get the extra practice they need to progress in their learning. with 14,321 vocabulary worksheets available, you can find material on a wide range of topics relating to your lesson or students’ needs below - including business, medical, animals, holidays, and many more. you’ll also find worksheets on idioms, colloquialisms, phrasal verbs, and even slang vocabulary. these worksheets can be used in the classroom in many different ways. role play is one effective way to teach vocabulary: you can place students in a specific scenario and have them use the vocabulary on these worksheets to act out a relevant situation. another effective way to teach vocabulary is by introducing the vocabulary words in a game setting, such as a matching game, a bingo game, or a team-based game. the worksheets below come in many different styles. some include cartoon characters to identify colors, some are simple fill-in worksheets, some are song worksheets, some are quizzes, some are in list form, and you'll also find many other types . this variety gives you a lot of options for creating a dynamic and fun lesson, and your students will appreciate the variety, too. the worksheets are also grouped into “recommended,” “most popular,” and “recently added” categories – and they're also level-specific, ranging from beginner to advanced. this makes it easy for you to determine whether or not a given worksheet can be used in your lesson. if you're not sure about what a certain worksheet contains, just click on the thumbnail to preview the entire worksheet before downloading it. you don't have to register or subscribe to download any worksheet. they're all free to download, and free to use in your lessons. plus, every single one of these worksheets is created and submitted by fellow esl teachers, which means they're tested and proven in real esl classroom environments. in fact, if you have a vocabulary worksheet that you've found to be especially effective in your lessons, you can submit it to busyteacher.org. at the bottom of this page, click on “submit a worksheet” to upload your worksheet for other esl teacher around the globe to use! become a part of the busyteacher.org community, where you'll find 14,321 vocabulary worksheets to download and use in your lessons every day! there's no limit to what you can do when you make our worksheets a part of your lessons, so start by taking a look at the recommended ones below. read more......less filter by level new complete beginner (2981) elementary (7231) pre-intermediate (5938) intermediate (5254) upper-intermediate advanced (3048) exam level (771) suitable for all levels (676) clear filters filter top articles in this category teaching english vocabulary: 10 fabulous ways to teach new words 7 best games for your next vocabulary class 5 best ways to introduce new vocabulary 6 absolutely essential esl games for vocabulary review 7 infallible tricks to help esl students remember new vocabulary how to elicit vocabulary: top 6 techniques 7 best ways to introduce new vocabulary 6 fresh activities for group work 7 great american movies to reinforce vocabulary don’t get stuck in a vocabulary rut: 8 fresh, fun ideas for words and post-it notes dramatically improve the way you teach: check out our writing resources creative writing prompts 1-50 creative writing prompts 51-100 creative writing prompts 101-150 creative writing prompts 151-200 creative writing prompts 201-250 creative writing prompts 251-300 creative writing prompts 301-350 creative writing prompts 351-400 creative writing prompts 401-450 creative writing prompts 451-500 creative writing prompts 501-550 creative writing prompts 551-600 make a word search: create awesome-looking custom word searches in seconds! create now › make a word scramble: instantly create custom word/sentence scrambles for your class! create now › make a double puzzle: generate double puzzles your students will love - hours of fun! create now › esl articles view our latest knowledgebase articles that will help you become a better english teacher. learn from professional teachers and put a bit of your own creativity into it! top 10 tongue twisters: true teacher's treasure? 10 february themed language building activities beyond martin luther king day: teaching argument through the writings of martin luther king wida and access testing: what you need to know how to be a better teacher: the secret recipe that every pro knows view all rate this category 4.5 out of 5, rated by 30 teachers explore vocabulary: abbreviations 15 advertising and brands 39 alphabet 208 animals 635 brainteasers 80 british/american 70 business vocabulary 150 celebrities/biographies 257 city and countryside 149 collocations 70 colours 252 countries/nationalities 639 crime and punishment 92 crosswords/boardgames 412 describing people and things 1,070 dictionary activities 106 directions - giving and asking 48 environment and nature 315 everyday/social english 314 family/friends 346 fashion and style 61 feelings and emotions 301 food and drinks 921 getting-to-know each other 207 holidays and celebrations 1,667 horoscopes/zodiac sign 22 house/flat/rooms 271 humour 88 idiom 168 jobs and professions 330 love and marriage 174 mass-media 56 math 105 medicine and health 200 modern technology 307 money 68 months/days of the week 108 music 122 newspaper english 39 office 39 opinions 149 permission 7 phrasal verbs 182 plans 26 polite requests 26 politics 66 projects 102 quizzes and hunts 145 quotations and sayings 47 say/tell/speak/talk 69 school/university/education 190 shopping/clothes 256 signs and notices 15 simile 23 slang 45 sleep and dreams 13 social issues 224 space 61 spelling 248 sports and hobbies 295 suggestions and offers 24 superstitions 33 telling time 124 travelling/culture studies 574 weather 239 wordbuilding 252 wordsets/collocations 109 most popular 7 best ways to introduce new vocabulary: poster words for taboo [#2] describing people bingo madagascar ii worksheet toys british and american vocabulary and grammar [with video] wheel of fortune game ultimate survival discussion days of the week classroom poster i'm nobody! who are you? (poem by emily dickinson) sort by: most recent | most viewed | rating memory game of electrical components juana barrado •teenagers, adult learners, describing things, flashcard sets this is a memory game based on fourteen electronic components and their definitions. students display the cards upside down on the table. in turns, they turn over two cards at a time with the goa ... 1 8,977 pre-int cloze activity - rosa parks primaryleap •young learners, celebrities/biographies, reading comprehension, february students are asked to read the sentences and fill in the missing words from the word bank to complete the facts about rosa parks. this worksheet was created by www.primaryleap.co.uk example: rea ... 1 8,183 elempre-int biography - rosa parks primaryleap •questions and short answers, young learners, celebrities/biographies, reading comprehension celebrate rosa parks' birthday with this biography report form all about this inspirational lady. why was rosa parks arrested? how did president clinton honour rosa parks? students are asked to c ... 1 6,861 elempre-int word search activity - rosa parks primaryleap •young learners, homework, celebrities/biographies, usa this word search can be used as a fun activity with your class when teaching students about rosa parks. students to try and find the words relating to rosa parks hidden in the word search grid a ... 1 4,141 elem handout pride and prejudice with answers wmappleteach •character and personality, tv and video, movie + video + cartoons this handout is for the 2005 movie based on the book, pride & prejudice. this worksheet has listed vocabulary and definitions for each of four scenes. there are a few questions for each scene ... 1 4,990 pre-intintadvexam put busyteacher in your inbox sign up for the busyteacher weekly and be the first to get direct links to our latest teaching articles, worksheets and lesson plans. goes out to 323,134 subscribers every wednesday. see last week's issue. yes, sign me up! thank you for joining our mailing list! chinese new year quiz primaryleap •young learners, quizzes and hunts, reading comprehension, january this fun quiz can be used as an extra resource when teaching the topic: chinese new year, or any english language lesson. created by www.primaryleap.co.uk some of the questions include: how many ... 1 4,755 elem art as a from of resistance during the holocaust powerpoint anastasiia •social issues, tv and video, january the lesson introduces students to the art created by the persecuted jews, namely teenagers, during the holocaust. the lesson focuses on the use of drawings as the way to resist oppression and per ... 1 3,121 pre-intint cinderella - word-building / word-formation exercises piadorn •negative adjective, verb, prefixes/suffixes this is a fairly easy word-formation/word-building exercise. it's the well-known story of cinderella. students have to transform the words in brackets to make them fit in. students can easily do t ... 17 31,731 intadv describing cities tontorrona •compound adjective, negative adjective, definite article, city and countryside describe a city and its buildings. example 1: match the opposites - ugly/beautiful, cheap/expensive santiago is polluted, but puerto varas is clean. example 2: describe one ci ... 32 34,128 elem chinese new year steveheintz1 •vocabulary » holidays and celebrations » new year this is a worksheet that you need to complete the sentence using vocabulary for the chinese new year. read each sentence and use the words in the box. all words are related to the chinese new ye ... 5 15,488 elempre-intint reading comprehension - i am a koala primaryleap •young learners, animals, environment and nature, reading comprehension short reading comprehension for early learners. having strong reading comprehension skills will also help with other subjects. students read through the short comprehension about a koala called k ... 2 10,779 elem rainbow video and worksheet kristine44 •colours, tv and video this worksheet is all about the rainbow. with a poem, a video, a song, pictures and eight exercises. you can watch the video and read the poem. then you can do the exercises (circle the adjective ... 1 4,092 elempre-int printable worksheets, online quizzes, and more sponsor • helpteaching.com • become a sponsor helpteaching.com offers a variety of resources for educators - printable worksheets, free test maker, printable word game generator, and online quiz platform. history - changing map of central europe anastasiia •definite article, collocations, tv and video the worksheet is based on the video that describes the rise and fall of countries in central europe before, during, and after world war ii. the tasks include pronunciation focus on the consonant ... 1 4,091 pre-intint ladybird song worksheet kristine44 •animals, environment and nature, tv and video this is a worksheet with a video and a poem about the ladybird. there are 9 exercises. you can watch the video and read the poem. then you can do the exercises (circle the adjective, fill in the ... 1 5,156 elempre-intint enquiry and offer - gap texts and link texts jiřina •vocabulary » business vocabulary » email english in this worksheet you find a letter of an enquiry and a letter of an offer. in the first exercise students fill in the missing words in enquiry and offer by terms given bellow the text /solution ... 1 5,481 pre-intint science resource - the rock cycle primaryleap •homework, environment and nature, reading comprehension rocks are constantly changing from one type of rock into another. they do this in cycles over millions of years. a volcano erupts and carries magma to the earth’s surface. when it cools dow ... 2 5,424 elempre-int solar system quiz primaryleap •homework, quizzes and hunts, space test your students' knowledge about the solar system with this fun quiz created by primaryleap.co.uk. this worksheet can be used as an extra resource when teaching kids about the solar system. wh ... 2 5,295 elempre-int 'hills like white elephants' hemingway short story ann zelevskaya •character and personality, opinions, social issues, reading comprehension this worksheet contains some tasks on vocabulary and for analysis of ernest hemingway's short story "hills like white elephants". the story is rather simple in terms of language, but the analysis ... 1 6,779 intadv reading comprehension - what is a continent? primaryleap •motivation, homework, environment and nature, reading comprehension did you know that there are seven continents on earth? a continent is like a massive piece of land. the seven continents are called: asia, africa, antarctica, australia, europe, north america and ... 2 6,693 elem reading comprehension - the universe primaryleap •questions and short answers, homework, space, reading comprehension all the planets and stars in the sky, the entire solar system, milky way and galaxies are all part of the universe. students learn some interesting facts about the universe with this printable sc ... 2 9,608 elempre-int how (not) to swear in english (adult learners) tania hlod •adult learners, wordsets/collocations this is a collection of ideas how to approch the topic of swearings/bad words in english. mind: adult learners. there you may find a list of questions for speaking part of the class, some ideas f ... 1 4,719 intadv traditional british christmas foods anastasiia •food, christmas, tv and video, december the video-based worksheet allows students to explore traditional british christmas dishes. the tasks are aimed at elementary or pre-intermediate learners and rely on images and matching strategie ... 1 5,322 elempre-int commonly misspelled words 2 primaryleap •young learners, homework, alphabet, spelling there are lots of tricky words to learn in the english language! this resource includes 12 words that are commonly misspelled. students put the list of words in alphabetical order and then choose ... 2 5,945 elempre-int commonly misspelled words 1 primaryleap •young learners, homework, alphabet, spelling this english resource will help improve a child's spelling of commonly misspelled words. there are 12 spellings for students to learn. students put the spellings in alphabetical order and then ch ... 2 5,319 elempre-int what is a notice worksheet karina •vocabulary » signs and notices a notice is a written or an oral statement that contains the particulars of holding a meeting. when a circular is served among the members of the meeting to attend the meeting, it is called a not ... 1 4,187 int got a great worksheet on vocabulary? tell us about it and become a busyteacher contributor! submit a worksheet previous page 1 2 3 4 5 ... 410 next page busyteacher.org copyright 2007-2020 © about submit a worksheet log in terms privacy contact us mobile version working. please wait...