menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login 14-day meditation challenge: put down your phone and be by zachary goodson “meditation is the ultimate mobile device; you can use it anywhere, anytime, unobtrusively.” ~sharon salzberg i came home from my doctor’s appointment last week and rambled off three to four different things that were happening in the world as a result of the coronavirus. by the fourth item my wife asked me to stop. she said please tell me something good. i told her that my doctor said my pathology report came back negative. that the procedure on my neck had removed all cancerous cells. (a very good thing!) we shared a hug and a smile, and then i was back on my phone looking to see if anything else had changed in the world. if you’re anything like me, you’ve been glued to your phone the past couple of weeks, mesmerized by what’s going on. i’ve been swiping right (to get to the news) thirty to forty times per day, probably more, and it’s been making me crazy. many of us are now in isolation from a virus that is changing the world as we know it at incredible speed. that’s why i think it’s important to spend less time on our phones. yep, you heard me correct. less time. even if it’s just ten minutes less per day. now more than ever it’s important to spend time doing something that’s grounded in reality rather than fear and panic. i’m not saying that what’s happening isn’t real, it’s very real, but a lot of us are getting over amplified by the ridiculous amount of information at our fingertips, and it’s taking us to a place of stress and anxiety. that’s why i want to challenge everyone to fourteen days of meditation. because meditation is grounded in reality. it’s just breathing. breathing in and out like the waves of the ocean. it’s you experiencing your thoughts for what they are—just thoughts—and then coming back to your breath. it’s you taking a break from the craziness of what’s going on and getting centered. i present this challenge to you gently because i know a lot of us have been affected in one way or another. heck, i just found out that a job i was supposed to start today has been pushed back for a month and a half. that’s money that my family was counting on. i can get angry and i can scream and shout, but what good is that going to do me.? it is what it is. instead, i can meditate. however scary it may be out there, we all have this beautiful opportunity to check in with ourselves and rise. i’m not saying don’t inform yourself, but at the same time you don’t need to be glued to your phone. we have to remember to put the oxygen mask on ourselves first. then others. hence this challenge. take this time for you. ten minutes a day. put down your phone. don’t swipe right and get sucked up into the news like i’ve been doing. don’t turn on the tv and check out for an hour or two. use this time, which we all have, to check in with yourself. and who knows? fourteen days might lead to a long-term habit—one that will make you a better person and make those around you better. imagine a world where all of us do this. where we ground ourselves in reality, checking in with our bodies, and we breathe and let our bodies send safety messages to our minds rather than our minds hijacking our bodies with fear. this is the vision that kept me up most of last night. meditate and let your body remind you that everything is okay. breathe in and breathe out knowing that right here, right now, just for this moment, everything is okay. remember, we are full organisms. everything that we are thinking and think we are feeling has an associated physiological response. sit with the knowing that despite whatever your mind is trying to tell you or whatever life stresses are coming your way you are completely safe in this moment right here in your body. i’ve never asked this before but i’m asking it now. please send this on to someone you know or share it on social media. i believe this is important to all of us right now. take this challenge. give yourself this gift. about zachary goodson zachary is a writer, a coach, and a heart-centered entrepreneur who loves helping others. his writing focuses on his experiences around holistic health, inner child work, addiction, recovery, spirituality, and fatherhood. his coaching is devoted to helping people experience deep fulfillment in relationships, career, and life. you can connect with him at zacharygoodson.com. web | more posts see a typo or inaccuracy? please contact us so we can fix it! did you enjoy this post? please share the wisdom :) you may also enjoy: how to mindfully calm your anger and stop doing things you regret free 5-day mindfulness challenge – interview with mindful in may founder elise bialylew connecting to the sacred in the chaos of everyday life translate free download: buddha desktop wallpaper recent forum topics abandonment issues & experiencing love? breakup, cheating, bad fight, just looking for advice? heartbroken lost lonely _ how move on emotional learning journey what should i do? have i tried hard enough? not feeling motivated lately need some inspiration! maintaining self in relationships please guys, i really need your advice. break up and third party situation my girlfriend said she has a soulmate but it isn't me fun & inspiring don’t let social distance lead to emotional distance get more fun & inspiring images & videos. latest posts 14-day meditation challenge: put down your phone and be if you think people-pleasing is being kind… stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy trauma can make us sick: how i found a key to healing 3 approaches to the coronavirus (and which is smartest) disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top