start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising productivity advertising last updated on january 2, 2020 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast read full profile share pin it tweet share email you’re a busy person. despite having the capability of installing dozens of apps, you only want to install the best. the problem is you’re not sure what the best is. there are too many online articles referencing the same apps. and when you do install some of them, you find yourself cluttering your phone with apps you don’t use. the solution? install only the apps that will help you become more productive? the truth is no app alone will help you become productive. you need to build the right mindset and become laser-focused with your goals. so the real solution is to start by building a productive mindset. in this article, i’ll not only look into the android productivity apps you need, but some extra advice on how to be productive. table of contents 15 best android productivity apps bonus tip: create productive habits to make these apps work for you becoming productive 15 best android productivity apps here’s a list i’ve compiled of some the best apps to help you become a productivity machine. 1. five minute journal what’s a better way to start your mornings or end your nights than scribbling down your thoughts? backed up by research, journaling helps you live a happy and productive lifestyle. express gratitude and set daily goals with this app. features summary: track important goals practice gratitude attach images to journal timeline cost: $5 install five minute journal here! 2. todoist todoist allows you to manage your tasks throughout your day. it’s a minimalist service with a great design across all the applications. features summary: create lists, email in tasks, colour code manage tasks with friends assign and delegate tasks to colleagues. cost: free with in-app purchases install todoist here! 3. headspace stop living in the past or future and live in the present instead. headspace provides guided meditation to help your mind relax at its peak state. you’ll learn focus and breathing techniques that will transform your daily awareness. features summary: guide and unguided meditation recordings robust library attach images to journal timeline cost: $96 annually install headspace here! 4. personal capital advertising don’t know your net worth or have a retirement plan? personal capital has you covered. sync several bank accounts and discover hidden fees. the best part is being able to view your cash flow, income, and expenses in one simple dashboard. features summary: sync many accounts track your net worth plan for your future with retirement planner cost: free install personal capital here! 5. audible instead of listening to random tunes in traffic, why not learn something new? audible has a diverse range of books from its 100,000 catalog of titles. transform your daily commutes one of the most productive parts of your day. features summary: robust book library listen on many devices take notes within the app cost: starting at $15 per month install audible here! 6. radiopublic if you’re strapped for time in learning new skills, podcasts are a great resource to have. they’re free and it’s where experts share their insights on a wide range of topics. features summary: downloadable episodes organize episodes with smart folders episodes automatically download cost: free install radiopublic here! 7. google calendar stop storing your appointments in your head and put them in google calendar instead. with google calendar, you’re able to schedule individual or team events. you can create several calendars or invite others around their schedule. features summary: create several calendars color code different events integrated with gmail & google tasks cost: free install google calendar here! 8. atracker do you know how much time you’ve spent doing actual work? if you’re not using atracker, chances are that you don’t. create custom categories and track how much time you spend being productive. advertising features summary: create custom tasks bar and pie chart reporting ui customization cost: $4.99 install atracker here! 9. evernote never lose important notes again. evernote allows you to capture, and organize your ideas on the go. other capabilities include being able to attach documents, audio, and much more. features summary: organize text, audio, attachments and much more clip material from the web collaborate with team members cost: free install evernote here! 10. workflowy the best way to approach any task is by breaking it down into smaller chunks. workflowy allows you to organize your tasks by making lists. the best part is that you can create detailed lists and not feel overwhelmed. features summary: easy to use interface organize complex information in a friendly format sync information through web and mobile applications cost: $4.99 per month install workflowy here! 11. hootsuite logging in several social media accounts can get draining. instead, sync all your social media platforms in one place. schedule posts, track accounts and view your social analytics with hootsuite. features summary: sync 35+ social media accounts assign and approve workflows with team management follow important topics with no hassle cost: free (up to 3 social profiles) install hoostsuite here! 12. pomodone the pomodoro technique is a management tactic used to work without burning out. pomodone follows the pomodoro technique, allowing you to sync tasks with popular apps. track time spent on important tasks and do more without burning out. features summary: customize workflow intervals automatic time logging browser plugin to launch app quickly cost: advertising starting at $14.50 annually install pomodone here! 13. wunderlist create grocery lists, plan for a project, or share your to-do list with wunderlist. once you create tasks you can assign them due dates, and reminders to ensure they get completed. you can even turn email into tasks by sending them to wunderlist. features summary: tasks sync with the calendar share your tasks with friends and colleagues personalized ui cost: free for basic plan, $4.99 monthly for unlimited tasks install wunderlist here! 14. google drive google drive allows you to store information from gmail and google photos. once stored you’re able to search objects within images or even text in scanned documents. plus, you can collaborate with others using documents, presentations, or spreadsheets. features summary: customized file access restrictions scanned documents automatically convert into pdf make files available offline cost: free for basic plan, starting at $1.99 per month install google driver here! 15. voice recorder stop letting important thoughts pass. record important meetings or memos using your built-in microphone with voice recorder. once finished you can replay all your recordings within this app. features summary: share recordings simple to use interface cost: free install voice recorder here! so stick with the above apps that fuel you with productivity! bonus tip: create productive habits to make these apps work for you but besides using the above apps, start creating productive habits that i’m going to reveal to you. 1. transform your mornings to being productive start your mornings with productivity. here’s what i mean, wake up an hour earlier each morning to organize your day before you get distracted. the problem is that if you start your mornings without intention you’ll do only what’s thrown at you. for example, you’ll complete your assigned tasks at work and feel like you’ve had a productive day. but was it productive? if you aren’t getting closer towards your most important goals each day then you didn’t do much. that’s why morning rituals are the most important part of your day. advertising there’s a reason why successful people like tim ferris, tony robbins, and oprah have morning rituals. because they work. morning rituals prime your mind for success by setting clear intentions. your morning ritual consists of many habits. but, the most important ones are journaling and meditating. meditating will clear your mind from all mental distractions. and once your mind is clear you can begin setting your daily goals. 2. increase your odds at succeeding by setting goals setting goals is an art. set the bar too high and you will never complete anything. but, set the bar low and you’ll only complete mediocre tasks. so what’s the best way to set goals? using a journal to write s.m.a.r.t goals you wish to do each day. research has shown that people who set clear goals are more likely to succeed vs those who don’t.[1] so how do you know which goals to set? start by asking yourself the following questions: am i happy with my current job? what do i want to learn next? am i content with my financial situation? your goal should be meaningful to you. otherwise, it’s less likely that you’ll complete it. once you’ve settled on a few goals you’d like to do, start breaking them down into smaller chunks. for example, if you plan to lose some weight and want to lose 10lbs in 3 months, set a goal to lose 3lbs each month. at the end of the day write down your progress in your journal, and repeat this process daily. 3. beat down your daily distractions you already know that waking up earlier helps you avoid completing unimportant tasks. but this isn’t enough. you need to cut most of your distractions. what are they? it depends. somedays it can be your coworkers and others it can be your favorite tv show. the first step is to become aware of what distracts you the most. but most people’s distraction is in their pocket. your smartphone is a great tool to stay productive but more often than not it’s used for the wrong reasons. a recent study revealed that smartphone addiction leads to feeling more anxious and productivity loss. so how can you cut distractions from your smartphone? first, acknowledge that your smartphone it’s diminishing your productivity. if you’re constantly checking your smartphone throughout the day then that’s a problem. it may not seem like much, but 5 to 10 minutes of free time can equate to 1+ hours each day. then work your way towards eliminating other distractions. don’t overthink this. any task that prevents you from giving your full attention to an important task is a distraction. try these tips: go on airplane mode when working on important tasks reconfigure your phone’s notifications so not every single app’s notifications pop up to you uninstall apps you haven’t used in the last 30 days use apps that encourage productivity most importantly, be patient with yourself. you will fumble the first few weeks. why? because you’re eliminating habits you’d built over the years. becoming productive imagine completing your most important tasks each day and feeling in control. the best part is that your smartphone apps only contribute a small part of your success. you’ve eliminated bad habits and adopted a more productive lifestyle. amazing, right? you now have a list of some of the best apps out there to help you become productive. but don’t rely solely on these apps. instead, practice on setting your intentions each morning. set goals and plan for your future. “if you don’t build your dream, someone will hire you to help build theirs” — tony a. gaskins jr. make your mornings the most productive part of your day and watch great things happen. featured photo credit: unsplash via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ harvard university: setting goals: who? why? how? share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next writing journal for a better and more productive self (the how-to guide) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques advertising advertising more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings advertising trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques read next how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated how to achieve a realistic work life balance how to stay motivated and reach your big goals in life why you need to set future goals (and how to reach them) advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.