start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising motivation mental strength advertising last updated on february 6, 2020 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email every monday is a great time to pump up your spirits, make goals for the upcoming week and keep yourself motivated to achieve them. but what do you do if you cannot find motivation within yourself? instead of beating yourself over it, why not take help from external sources to get motivated? apart from self-help books and inspiring speeches and movies, good podcasts can also lift up your spirits when you need it most. at a time when we are all racing against time, you no longer have to “make” time for listening to inspirational podcasts because they make for an immersive and convenient option. so the next time you are stuck in traffic or are out for a run, optimize that time by listening to motivational podcasts. here is a list of 15 really good podcasts that you must have on your playlist to stay motivated and reach your goals: 1. the tim ferriss show it would be sacrilege to enlist good podcasts without starting with the tim ferriss show, also called “the oprah of audio” by the observer. ranked #1 out of 500,000+ podcasts on many occasions, this is the first business podcast to have crossed 300 million downloads and be selected as “best of” apple podcasts for three consecutive years. hosted by best-selling author tim ferris, this podcast’s guest list features famous names such as arnold schwarzenegger, lebron james, maria sharapova, jamie foxx among many others. it has tim inviting world-class performers to discuss their habits, routines and secrets that make them what they are for listeners to take a leaf from their books. advertising 2. the one you feed hosted by eric zimmer and chris forbes, the one you feed is based on the principle that it ‘takes conscious, constant and creative effort to make a life worth living’. the podcast features conversations with guests from various walks of life. they discuss topics surrounding mental health, motivation, self-awareness, spirituality and more such topics that help us become better versions of ourselves. so, listen to the episodes on their website and get your daily dose of motivation! 3. ted radio hour following the success of ted talks, ted radio hour is a fascinating podcast that brings together some of the most remarkable minds in the world. a co-production between ted and national public radio (npr), ted radio hour is hosted by guy raz. exploring topics ranging from inspirational leadership to self-awareness, this 18-minute talk show promises to make you think, question and introspect, while offering fresh approaches and solutions to old problems. 4. the gary vee audio experience feeling listless and low on energy? make listening to the gary vee audio experience part of your daily routine and you are bound to see a positive change in your perspective. hosted by entrepreneur, author, ceo, public speaker and vlogger gary vaynerchuk, this podcast has a no-nonsense approach to get you up and running. gary imparts motivational advice via speeches and interviews in a riveting manner that makes you sit up, listen and take note. 5. school of greatness lewis howes’ school of greatness podcast aims at inspiring people to dream bigger and live better. from relationships and entrepreneurship to self-development and health – school of greatness features solo sessions with host lewis and interviews with famous people from the world of business, sports and entertainment sharing their nuggets of success. advertising once in a week, listeners also get to enjoy 5 minute friday which has lewis inspiring people with some really quick advice on some of the most relevant topics we can all relate to. 6. inspire nation this podcast covers a diverse range of subjects – you name it and they’ve got to have it covered! inspire nation aims to “help you shine bright” through their motivational episodes that touch upon every aspect of your life. it has host michael sandler sharing some life-changing experiences and also invites authors, spiritual leaders and others to offer inspiring advice that fills you with positivity and leaves you charged up. with so much to offer when it comes to self-improvement, you are sure to get hooked on to this podcast in no time. 7. the brendon show the brendon show is hosted by the world’s leading personal development coach, brendon burchard. through this highly inspiring podcast, brendon shares his life mantra, what keeps him going and how we can all shape the extraordinary life we wish to lead. he dives deep into interesting issues that we are all a victim of such as ‘dealing with self-doubt’, ‘why people don’t support you’ and ‘the motivation killer’ among others. this show is all about finding the right direction in life and has the power to inspire people to take action. 8. happier another good podcast is gretchen rubin’s happier. this thought-provoking podcast features some really practical advice on living a happier life. gretchen and her sister elizabeth discuss habits and hacks to make everyday joyful in this thoroughly enjoyable podcast. 9. goal digger if you have questions surrounding chasing your passion, living your dreams, taking risks, quitting your 9 to 5 job and similar other concerns, the goal digger podcast promises to answer them all for you. this podcast has host jenna kutcher bring you inspirational stories that can make a difference to your lives. she speaks about tips and tricks on staying motivated, being productive and becoming a ‘self-made’ millionaire. advertising adopting a ‘live-workshop style business podcast’, this one is specifically directed to helping ‘girl bosses’ make their dreams come true. 10. the mastery sessions powerful daily tools coupled with profound insights is what comprises the mastery sessions podcast wherein life coach robin sharma helps you live your best life. his words of encouragement and advice inspires listeners to be optimistic and hopeful. whenever you’re having a bad day, tune in to the mastery sessions and listening to even just one episode is enough to get you get you back on track – that is how powerful his words are! 11. the good life project the good life project features in-depth conversations that are honest and deeply-moving. hosted by writer and entrepreneur, jonathan fields, this podcast aims to share stories of experts and everyday people meant to inspire listeners. stories connect us all and that is exactly what this podcast embodies. the good life project airs twice a week on mondays and thursdays and you can give them a listen on their website. 12. oprah’s supersoul conversations if you thought oprah winfrey has only taken over television, you are mistaken. this megastar also has her own podcast called oprah’s supersoul conversations. aimed at helping people discover the deeper meaning of the world around them, this podcast features oprah’s personal selection of her interviews with thought leaders, authors, spiritual leaders and other well-known experts. trust supersoul conversations to help you find value and meaning during turbulent times and emerge victorious. 13. life is a marathon life surely is a marathon and motivational speaker bruce van horn wants you to live it with a positive outlook, as reflected in his podcast, life is a marathon. advertising having utmost passion for personal development, positive thinking and self-esteem, bruce shares his thoughts on breaking negative thought patterns in order to live a life of joy and abundance through this podcast. 14. the daily boost the daily boost has generated over 26 million downloads, making it the most popular daily motivation program. combining personal development strategies and common sense, this podcast is anything by predictable. it presents a fun take on motivation and keeps you engrossed owing to its fresh and upbeat approach. host and founder scott smith makes the show all the more entertaining with his witty wisecracks and words of wisdom that very well resonate with listeners. 15. optimal living daily wish you had the time to read and soak up motivational content from some of the best blogs but don’t? now, that’s why you should definitely subscribe to optimal living daily because it picks up top content from the internet and summarizes it into a 10-minute clip. wonderful, isn’t it? it is hosted by justin malik who offers daily readings covering topics such as minimalism, productivity, life-hacking techniques and more. with optimal living daily on your list, there is no way you can miss out on inspirational content to boost your morale. the bottom line don’t let your busy schedule bog you down and leave you demotivated. thanks to these inspiring podcasts, you can get your daily dose of motivation wherever you may be. so, subscribe to them and keep yourself motivated to reach your goals. more podcast recommendations the lifehack show 11 inspirational podcasts to lift you up 20 motivational podcasts to start following this year featured photo credit: juja han via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 11 inspirational podcasts to lift you up 20 motivational podcasts to start following in 2020 the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) you are not your thoughts: 10 ways to get rid of unhealthy thoughts how self doubt keeps you stuck (and how to overcome it) advertising advertising podcast mental strength advertising last updated on march 26, 2020 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email in this episode of the lifehack show our guest is nicole lovald, former corporate addict turned yogi, life coach, and self-care advocate. she is the author of the book om sweet om: a corporate junkie's search for enlightenment . nicole has a background in counseling veterans, at-risk children, and victims of trauma as she has always been passionate about helping people overcome adversity and change their limiting beliefs into a more progress based mindset. here she shares her insights on how yoga can act as the ultimate form of stress relief and help you change your life. listen to the episode here: view on you tube featured photo credit: lāsma artmane via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.