barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up life 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest mikkel becker lead trainer for fear free pets shares share tweet pin this article was written by mikkel becker, the head trainer at fear free pets. fear free pets works to make sure every dog can be happy and stress-free life in all aspects of life: from the vet office to the groomer to the home. while the holidays allow for all sorts of good times, they also require we take extra care of our pups. few people imagine their festive decorations and holiday foodstuffs as potentially dangerous, but for dogs, the holidays present several possible hazards. fortunately, a little knowledge goes a long way. just keep your pup away from any of the items on this list and you’ll all be able to safely enjoy your holidays. 1. bones holiday meals alone present an entire list of hazards, but the big food item to be careful with is giving your dog bones. as the daughter of a veterinarian, and as someone who has worked with numerous veterinary hospitals as an assistant and animal trainer, i can say that giving bones comes with some serious risks. you should especially never give your dog cooked bones. these can shred and turn into extremely sharp pieces that can create a choking hazard and/or create intestinal damage if their digestive tract is punctured or blocked. as for uncooked bones, they can create other issues, including running the risk of teeth fractures and breakage (ouch). if you do give bones to your dog, ensure they’re sized appropriately and note that there is always a major risk of teeth damage. beyond this, throw out pieces of bone that are too small and may be swallowed whole by the pet resulting in a potential choking, rupture or blockage issue when ingested. instead of bones, you may consider other options that clean teeth, but that have fewer risks involved. this includes cet impregnated enzyme chews that have special additives that better keep the pet’s teeth and gums clean and healthy, while still providing that good chew time entertainment that dogs enjoy. or consider a stuff-able enrichment toy like a kong that you can fill with a mix of peanut butter and food and then freeze for a delicious treat that will keep your pup happily occupied. 2. the turkey (or other fatty meats/foods) the turkey in the picture above is fine for your dog to play with. however, eating thanksgiving turkey can be hazardous. yes, it’s hard to let things go to waste, but don’t give in to the temptation of giving your dog fatty pieces of meat pulled from the thanksgiving turkey or ham. dogs can develop a life-threatening condition called pancreatitis. pancreatitis is caused by an overabundance of fat that your dog then can’t properly process. so limit your dog’s intake of overly fatty meats and other foods, including butter-soaked potatoes. if you want to top their normal meal off with a little non-fat, low sodium gravy, however, go for it! this doesn’t mean your dog can’t join in on the holiday feasting! pre-portioning a given amount that your pet can enjoy alongside during the feast can cut down on the pesky begging, and more importantly, allow your dog to enjoy themselves without feeling left out of all the fun. you can cook your pet a special meal that’s appropriate for their dietary needs and approved by their vet. in some cases, this may mean sticking to a more rigid meal plan for the dog, but still making it enjoyable for them (such as cooked green beans flavored with a small amount of low sodium chicken broth instead of butter, or cooking an egg or lean ground turkey or beef meat over rice, or providing unsweetened canned pumpkin or unsweetened and non-buttered cooked sweet potatoes for your pooch). remember that quantity should be limited in size to prevent dietary upset (too much of a good thing can still cause intestinal discomfort and diarrhea, or vomiting for your pet). and, if you can’t resist giving a piece of the turkey, steak, ham or other meat of the feast, provide your pet with the leanest pieces of the meat in small portions (work in some training by using it as a reward for good behavior). you can also provide dog-specific holiday treats (like those that come in a barkbox or super chewer subscription). put them in a food puzzle that keeps your pet entertained and away from the table. doing this allows the family and other guests to still spoil your pooch (i mean they’re so cuuuuute who can resist that faaaaace) saving your dog from a possible later diarrhea explosion or emergency vet trip. 3. enterprising food thievery of uncooked ingredients (like bread dough) dogs may help themselves to food left unattended and unsupervised. or, for especially emboldened pups, they may help themselves to what they can snag, regardless if a human’s there or not (*cough hounds cough). food items that you think may seem harmless can actually cause your pet to go into great distress. for example, bread dough can be very dangerous for dogs. why? dough rises with heat. and when it comes to the dog eating uncooked dough that’s say, left out on the counter before being placed into the oven, the result can be disastrous. the ingested portion can rise and grow into uncomfortable, unhealthy, or even life-threatening sizes inside your pup’s gi tract and stomach. (note: if a dog does eat uncooked dough, note that this is a serious problem that may be good reason for a trip to the emergency vet). i can remember one time enjoying a holiday event with friends when their boxer threw his front paws up on the counter and helped himself in one gulp to an entire stick of butter being used to cook the meal and for buttering the bread. on the one hand, wow what an entrepreneur. on the other hand, large quantities of butter can be seriously dangerous for a dog. in an effort to avoid the intestinal upset and potential health complications that may result, ryley was given hydrogen peroxide to get the butter stick out of his system before it did serious damage. the result was very much a no-fun holiday for everyone. riley was unhappy, sick and frustrated and his frazzled pet parents had to monitor him to make sure he was able to expel the potentially dangerous food. to prevent food theft, when cooking or eating, it’s probably safer for your pup to hang out in their personal dog-specific space, such as their fear free fortress area. or, consider keeping the dog on harness and leash with a responsible person who can oversee the dog’s whereabouts and safety. also, if the dog is trained to go to a specific space, like their mat, or to do a longer duration sit or down, they can be guided to such a behavior, and rewarded for remaining in place and away from the food using some of the pre-portioned amounts of their doggy designated holiday food. 4. sweets (especially chocolate) and other dangerous food items we have yet to meet the pastry that is good for a dog. (well, maybe these pastries.) so many contain chocolate and sugar, which can be incredibly toxic to dogs. no cookies, no pie, no gelt. no exceptions! other off-limit items include coffee and coffee beans, macadamia nuts/ grapes and raisins/ avocados, alcohol and cannabis (including cannabis containing food items). dogs can become seriously ill from eating food that their body doesn’t tolerate the way a human would. for example, while small quantities of milk chocolate may only result in dietary upset and diarrhea, when it comes to more concentrated chocolate, the result can be life-threatening. keep unsafe items from your dog by using closed doors, securable cabinets, and putting up high, out of reach. in addition, warn guests to keep the dog out of such spaces using closed doors or gates and to be mindful of where they put down food. 5. sugar-free containing products (xylitol) a dog toy gum ball? adorable. an actual gum ball? not so great for dogs. probably the biggest unknown culprit for serious and life-threatening complications are food items that contain xylitol, a sugar free sweetener. xylitol lurks in a variety of products, from gum to vitamins, to syrup and candy. and, most disturbing of all, it takes very little wreak havoc on a dog’s insides (for example, vital organs, like their liver, can start shutting down). even one stick of gum that contains xylitol places a small-sized dog at very serious health risk, potentially even death. ensure that all items containing this ingredient are kept up and out of reach of the pet. and, consider what your pet may get into that you might be unaware of, such as the unwrapped gift items, or even the suitcase or purse of your guests that may contain sugar free products. if your dog does ingest anything containing xylitol immediately contact or visit the veterinarian to provide your pet with the timely help their body may need to deal with the potentially lethal ingredient. also, always check the peanut butter jar’s ingredients before treating your pup. some peanut butter is now being made with xylitol, so make sure you don’t accidentally give them the wrong kind. 6. alcohol, cannabis and human medications although some human medications may appear harmless (e.g. tylenol) if meds are ingested by your pet, they can pose a health risk. remember that your dog is better able to ‘chill’ with veterinary-approved chill pills, supplements and behavior modification strategies, not a home remedy of beer or cannabis brownies to help your dog relax. dogs have different metabolic systems than humans, and so tolerate things like alcohol and cannabis, quite differently than people, resulting in serious neurological issues if too much is consumed consider moving purses, unopened gifts, suitcases and other personal items like coats to an area that’s inaccessible to your dog. also always ensure all meds, even over the counter medications, are kept safely out of the pet’s reach via secure cabinets or other impregnable storage areas. 7. rodenticides and antifreeze we like to mention these specifically because holidays generally involve a lot of travel, which can result in anti-freeze being left out in garages. as for rodenticides, if you and your pup travel to a relative’s house, you don’t necessarily know what they lay out to keep the critters away. unfortunately, even a small amount of rodent control poison or lick of antifreeze can be lethal. and, because they often taste great to your dog (they’re sweet), your pup will probably happily eat them. if visiting a friend or family member’s house, be aware of any items they may have lying around the house, garage, or yard that your pet may get into. keep your pet’s whereabouts known and limited to areas that have been safely patrolled and deemed as safe. in addition, provide plentiful pup-friendly options for your pup that’s safe to chew on, like dog-approved chews, stuffed food puzzles, or their favorite barkbox toys. 8. escape let’s face it: your dog may be a door dasher. and while you’re able to manage the situation in your day-to-day routine, during holiday events you may be less able to monitor entryways and exits. as a result, your pup may dash out and run away, become lost, or get into serious trouble by running onto the open road. to prevent the great doggy escape, consider gating or otherwise containing entryways. alternatively, you could keep your dog on a harness and leash when you know people are coming over. you can also place door alerts that sound off when the door is opened or attach a gps to your dog’s collar, allowing you to check on fido’s whereabouts and ensuring they’re inside and safe in case a guest accidentally causes an outdoor adventure. also, consider placing signs at exit and entry points and reminding people to watch out for your dog as they come and go. you can also encourage people who go outside for fresh air to do so in a space where your dog can’t immediately dash out doors, like a fenced-in patio or yard. most importantly, ensure that your dog has up to date identification on their id tag and has been microchipped. make sure your pup’s microchip always has up-to-date information on their profile as well so in case they get lost, you can hopefully be quickly reunited. 9. real holiday plants mistletoe, holly, and poinsettias are all off-limits, and so is the christmas tree. each of these plants is naturally toxic to your dog. if you treat any of these plants with chemicals to preserve them through the holidays, they will only be more toxic. to prevent ingestion put them well out of reach of naughty-minded or overly curious pups. shelves are a lovely invention on which to place your festive plant. the floor by the stairs is probably not the best choice. you can also give them a bark holiday mistletoe toy, and fun is guaranteed! 10. decorations and wires whether a bulb on the tree or a string of lights on the banister, it looks like a chew toy to your dog. holiday decorations are often made of glass or run on electricity, neither of which are good for your pup (duh). edible ornaments can also be problematic. be wary of using popcorn, cereal, or hard candies to decorate your tree or home. that’s just asking for your dog to eat something it’s not supposed to eat. try to use wire protectors when stringing around lights, and don’t place ornaments that are within easy reach of your pup. if you don’t trust your dog around a tree period, then encourage them to hang out in their fear free fortress, or manage the situation so they’re never too near the shiny, tempting things-that-look-like-tennis-balls-but-aren’t. 11. wrapping paper wrapping paper poses many of the same problems that decorations pose: too many easily chewed items that shouldn’t be chewed. ribbon, tape, staples, stickers, and any of the other items used to wrap gifts should not be ingested by dogs or treated as chew toys. 12. batteries your home might have a few more batteries around over the holidays than normal. since batteries range in size, they might accidentally be swallowed by your dog or treated like a nice big rawhide. neither scenario is a good one. make sure to keep them in a nice safe area that your pet can’t get into. 13. the cold like number 1, this could easily be its own list. the winter tends to be harsh and unforgiving wherever the temperature drops dramatically. if you take your dog outside for holiday fun, make sure you keep your pup warm, dry and hydrated during the snow season. 14. tiny human toys your dog might mistake some of the new toys gifted to tiny humans for their own. but toys not designed to be chewed on or played with by dogs clearly shouldn’t be used by dogs. human toys have many more pieces than dog toys and they tend to be sharp. if ingested, they can cause serious damage to a dog’s g.i. tract. make sure all children’s toys are safely put away when they’re done being used, and put them in dog-proof containers out of harm’s reach. also be sure to teach kids not to share their new toys with the family pup, since the dog may decide to play with it in an er, original manner. you can also have your child gift your dog with an appropriate dog toy, like the bark flower toy bouquet pictured above. 15. guests okay, so your in-laws aren’t technically a threat to your dog, but if they don’t know what’s off-limits for your pup, they might not be able to help you keep your dog healthy over the holiday. in other words, educate your holiday guests and be an advocate for your pup! if you’d like to learn more about keeping your pup safe for the holidays, you can read more at fear free happy homes! comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up mikkel becker lead trainer for fear free pets 5 great ways to keep your dog happy on turkey day 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go