home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library food and drink prevnext 15 kitchen tools and equipment you will need in a busy family kitchen leyla preston mon 21st jan 2019 16shares share tweet pin there is a reason why some parents turn to ready meals and takeaway when so much of their time is taken up looking after the kids and the daily multitude of tasks bestowed upon them. there’s no time to go to the loo, so how do you find the time to cook up a fresh homemade meal three times a day (or more if you have hungry monsters in the house)? gone are the days where you could casually waltz up to your kitchen counter and glaze over your artisan-style food ingredients that were purchased from authentic over-priced food markets. from the moment you gave birth, it felt like you gave up the right to spend more than ten minutes on yourself at any given time, unless you manage to have it sussed, in which case, share your secrets, please! it’s all about speed and convenience and, even though i like to ensure that my kids eat fresh, healthy and homemade as much as possible, i don’t have the time or the resources to spend £40 on 67 ingredients to create one elaborate and lengthy meal. i have 6 and 7-year-old boys and their tummies rival their hungry eyes, so i’m literally on the go, cooking up lots of homemade recipes (including my legendary waffles for breakfast!) that include as much of the different healthy food groups as possible. and, i’ve almost got a few of the speedy kitchen skills sussed too. most of these ideas boil down (no pun intended) to the kitchen tools and equipment that have fast become my best friends over the years. before i list my essential kitchen tools, i want to stress the importance of having a convenient and efficient kitchen. for example, a kitchen with a kitchen island will help you to prepare food easily, without you have to trot back and forth between utensil and appliance. take a look at kitchen warehouse where you can find some great kitchen units that will help you on your way to becoming a whizz in the kitchen. so, here are 15 kitchen utensils and equipment that i seriously cannot do without and that help me whip up some pretty awesome family meals (sometimes) in a busy kitchen. ready, set, go! table of contents cutting board cast iron skillet a good strong pot hand blender microwave a chef’s knife colander vegetable peeler casserole dish kitchen scales kitchen tongs wooden spoon slow cooker mixing bowls measuring spoons/cups cutting board wooden cooking utensils are a great and a thick cutting board made of bamboo is quite low maintenance and sanitary too. bamboo is dense enough to resist knife scarring and it naturally resists water penetration too, preventing bacteria from seeping in and growing. you just use hot water and soap (or diluted bleach) to clean the board and you’re good to go. if you want to be really fancy, you can find some great kitchen worktops, like these great worktop examples from worktop express, where you don’t need a cutting board to do the work. cast iron skillet a cast iron skillet is the real deal in food utensils. it is a versatile and durable piece of hard iron that can be used to make pretty much anything over a gas or electric stove. boil up some spaghetti, brown some chicken or bake casserole dinners in the oven, you can use the skillet on almost any surface (but not in a microwave) and it is easy to clean too. just rinse well with hot water and then dry with a towel. a good strong pot something pretty large that will help you boil pasta and cook a healthy amount of soup or sauce for the family is ideal. one pot dinners are the mother of all kitchen time savers and made quite doable with cooking items a large saucepan or pot. hand blender a hand blender can make smoothies, soups, dips, and salsa in a flash, and it can also chop up items with less washing up to do afterwards. it will fast become your best friend for anything that needs whizzing up quickly, especially during the baby weaning stage. microwave microwaves are one of my saving graces! they can not only cook food faster, but tastier too. in fact, it has been said that food cooked in a microwave oven is often more nutritious than that of other conventional cooking methods. microwaves are also safer because they cook without fire and are easier to wipe clean as well. a great microwave to look at is a combination microwave by panasonic because these revolutionary microwaves can combine their power to steam, grill, bake or simply microwave your food. a chef’s knife sharp enough to chop up a swede (have you tried to chop up a swede?), kitchen cutting tools like a chef’s knife are ideal for chopping up anything, from herbs to meat. you can slice, dice, chop or even pulverise using a chef’s knife. to gain confidence with using such a large and sharp knife, do what i did and watch tonnes of youtube videos on how to hold the knife properly and position your hands correctly. bad habits are hard to break, so make sure you get these right at the very beginning to avoid chopping off fingers too! colander a colander is a multifunctional tool that can help to wash and drain food, as well as keep fragile food fresh in the fridge. a metal colander can also steam vegetables and keep flies away (when you flip it). vegetable peeler personally, i like to limit skinning fruits and vegetables because a lot of their nutrients come from the peel. however, we live in a world of chemicals including pesticides, which are sprayed onto our produce and ingested by our children. i don’t want to think about the long-term effects of non-organic food (even though organic is not that natural anymore either), so i reluctantly peel my non-organic fruit and veg. i would recommend going with a ‘y-peeler’ because it is generally sturdier, sharper, cheaper and easier to grip. casserole dish the beauty of casserole dishes is that they are so versatile. in the winter, you can enjoy a slow cooked hearty meal and in the summer, you can quickly roast some lovely vegetables with salmon if you desire. but, the benefit of the casserole dish is that it can withstand complete cooking. and you can skimp on the washing up since casseroles can be served in the dish that they are baked in. they are also easy to clean and economical too – they are generally dishwasher safe. if you’re stuck for ideas on what to make, worktop express have brought out a great ‘garden to table’ recipe ebook in time for the summer season and created by foodies like myself (check out my tomato chutney recipe in the ebook too!) to help you make the most of your home-grown produce. the mediterranean vegetable casserole looks delicious! kitchen scales generally, you can go by feeling when you’ve become accustomed to creating recipes in the kitchen, but there are some ingredients that you have to measure in order to get the final recipe right, especially when baking. that’s where kitchen scales come into play. with light baking, there is even less margin for error and so you need to measure your baking ingredients correctly with kitchen measuring tools to ensure that the final recipe is top notch. digital scales are the best as they tend to measure more accurately. plus, they’re so cheap these days that you’ll be able to find a decent one for under £10. kitchen tongs kitchen tongs are great for tossing salads, turning meat and just picking up hot food without using your hands. they are, in fact, an extra pair of hands when you can’t use your own, so i would definitely say a pair of tongs are essential gadget tools to have in the kitchen! wooden spoon if you can have a solid spoon and a slotted spoon, perfect. wooden spoons are not only easier and more comfortable to handle, but they’re also nonconductive. that means you can leave your spoon in the boiling sauce for a while and not burn your fingers when you pick up a metal conductive spoon. wooden spoons won’t scratch non-stick surfaces either or react to acidic ingredients like metal can. so, if you’re going to have some spoons in your kitchen, go for the wooden kind. slow cooker slow cookers are ideal fun kitchen gadgets for parents and they can be as cheap as chips to buy nowadays. you can cook virtually any meal you want, from oatmeal to casseroles and make enough for the whole family too. prep your food, add it in the morning before school drop off and then come home from school to a slow-cooked dinner! you get a healthy hot meal anytime and every time, even on the busiest days of the week. to check out a review of the best non-toxic slow cookers, head to cooklogic.com. mixing bowls mixing bowls are great for mixing the batter and creating cold dishes. i would opt for a larger bowl as it’s easier to handle food. also, you have yourself a salad bowl whenever you need it, so they’re multifunctional too! measuring spoons/cups measuring spoons are great for the itty-bitty measures that you need to get right in a recipe. lots of recipes now follow weight by cups, so it’s also handy to have measuring cups to hand as well. so, there you are, my top 15 kitchen tools and equipment that i use in my family kitchen that save time, money and my sanity. you really can spend less time faffing about in the kitchen preparing the food and more time enjoying the finished dish with your family. click here for more kitchen/dining posts. *contains affiliate links* *this is a collaborative post* – check out our ad policy for more information *may contain affiliate links* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:cookingessential gadgetsfoodkitchen related posts august 2016 degustabox review september 2014 – degustabox produc... grilled bell peppers drizzled with clove... september 2015 – degustabox produc... 14 weeks pregnant – the fatigue is... how to prepare for a baby – the first-ye... cauliflower pizza recipe chef paul rankin’s campaign to bring fam... little dish review and competition (5 go... what you should consider before buying a... october 2014 – degustabox product review... bernard matthews launches new meal booti... organic food for babies sweet potato chips, tomato and cheddar c... how to create an awesome birthday party ... spooktacular fruit and veg halloween cre... turkish flatbread (gözleme) recipe quorn meatballs and ‘getti (spaghetti) r... june 2014 – degustabox product rev... quorn cookery class at underground cooke... how do our eating habits differ by regio... quorn – a healthy alternative to meat &#... culina designs’ sealabag product review fish & chips recipe with a twist! home hacks to revamp a tired home august 2014 – degustabox product r... degustabox review plus competition/givea... november 2016 (christmas) degustabox rev... half term fun at ora’s cookery event 5-ingredient sweet and zesty roast chick... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 16shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok