i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: the best bolognese for weeknights: pappardelle with ragu di prosciutto recipes → 30 minutes → 15 minute khao soi: thai coconut curry chicken noodle soup recipe jump to recipe 30 minutes/instant pot/mains/recipes/soup/that noodle life 15 minute khao soi: thai coconut curry chicken noodle soup recipe khao soi: deliciously warming coconut curry noodles in just 15 minutes. posted february 16, 2019 by stephanie ever since i bought a little package of thai red curry paste, i’ve been red currying all the things. i’ve done red curry potatoes, red curry chickpeas, and even red curry dipping sauce for fries. i’m surprised that mike and i aren’t red from all the red curry paste we’ve been eating. i can’t get over how good it is. and really, it’s so much easier opening a package than getting out a mortar and pestle to make curry paste from scratch. the funny thing is, i really like making things from scratch. so why is it that when there’s a convenient alternative, i go for the alternative? is it a metaphor for my life?! do i always take the easy way out but profess to try do do difficult things? the thing is, i kinda think it’s true. i am not the greatest when i’m learning new things. i always complain and it’s a real pain for me (and everyone around me) when i’m trying to learn a new skill. speaking of skills, mike and i have been doing a lot of logic puzzles lately. we got into them a couple of years ago and did them all the time but after a while we stopped. when we first started i was a whiney mess, complaining about how difficult they were. but after i got the hang of it, i came to love logic puzzles. there’s something very satisfying about them. anyway, i guess in a round about way i’m saying, it’s good to do hard things and learn new things and basically live life instead of just coasting. not that i’m against coasting. i mean, this was one of those mindless recipes where you throw everything in a pot, set it and forget it. sometimes it’s just what you need, i guess. anyway, we crushed this bowl: it was spicy and creamy and full of the good stuff. the chicken is tender and hearty, the noodles chewy, the lime bright and fresh. and while the egg ribbons and crunchy bits are completely optional, they add a lot of textural and taste contrast too. maybe if you’re looking to do something new, give egg ribbons a try if you haven’t. they’re really simple but so satisfying. should i put up a quick tutorial? hope you guys are having an awesome weekend so far :) 15 minute khao soi: thai coconut curry chicken noodle soup recipe serves 2 prep time: 10 cook time: 5 total time: 15 2 cups no sodium chicken broth 14 ounce can coconut milk 1-2 tablespoons red curry paste 1/2 inch piece ginger, thinly sliced 2 cloves garlic, crushed 1 large chicken breast 1 tablespoon fish sauce, or to taste 1 tablespoon light brown sugar, or to taste 2 portions egg or ramen noodles sliced shallots lime wedges cilantro optional toppings: egg ribbons crispy wonton strips in the instant pot insert, add the chicken stock, coconut milk, red curry paste, garlic, ginger, and chicken breast. cook on high pressure for 5 minutes. while the instant pot is doing it’s thing, slice the shallots, cut the lime, and wash the cilantro. if you’re using any extra toppings, prep them now. cook and drain your noodles and divide them between two deep bowls. when the instant pot is done, quick release the pressure. carefully remove the chicken and shred. add the chicken to the bowls with the noodles. stir the fish sauce and brown sugar into the soup. taste the soup and adjust the seasoning with fish sauce, sugar, and curry paste if needed, then divide evenly between the two bowls. finish with lime and cilantro and enjoy! note: if you don’t have an instant pot, you can make it in a regular pot on the stove. add the chicken stock, coconut milk, red curry paste, garlic, ginger, and chicken breast to a pot and bring to a simmer over medium heat. continue to simmer until the chicken is cooked through, about 10-15 minutes, depending on the size of the chicken breast. continue with the remaining steps. 27 comments kyle says: february 16, 2019 at 5:19 am this is pretty similar to the red curry ramen posted a few weeks back, right? reply stephanie says: february 16, 2019 at 9:50 am hi kyle, absolutely, but without the sesame paste, mushrooms and peppers :) reply odessa darling says: february 16, 2019 at 8:00 am this looks really good! i love all things red curry and this fits my need for weeknight instant pot dinners that are boyfriend approved as well. thanks! reply stephanie says: february 16, 2019 at 9:48 am hope you get to give it a try odessa! :) reply alyssa says: february 16, 2019 at 12:49 pm i love all these flavors, and of course noodles are always good ;). can’t wait to try on a cold night! reply stephanie says: february 17, 2019 at 7:11 pm :) these guys are perfect for a cold night! reply krysty says: february 16, 2019 at 6:20 pm i’m new to your blog and everything looks really delicious. i wanted to ask, if i were to double the recipe how would that effect cook time? reply stephanie says: february 17, 2019 at 7:11 pm hi krysty, you don’t need to change the cooking time if you’re using an instant pot. if you’re doing it on the stove, it might need a bit more time, add an extra 5 minutes and start checking from there :) reply val says: february 17, 2019 at 7:30 pm this is no khao doing, because the curry paste we use is totally different. however, it is a good try. reply mel says: february 18, 2019 at 6:18 am can you substitute chicken thighs for the breast? how would the cooking time change? reply stephanie says: february 18, 2019 at 9:33 am hi mel, you can use chicken thighs. in the instant pot, the time won’t change, for the stove, you might want to add a couple of minutes :) reply hubs says: february 18, 2019 at 7:32 pm that was super tasty and easy. i used shrimp instead of chicken and added some mung bean sprouts for the crunch. thanks for sharing the recipe. reply stephanie says: february 19, 2019 at 9:29 am yay! shrimp was a good choice. imagine chicken and shrimp together?! so good :) reply melissa says: february 19, 2019 at 10:42 am egg ribbons? reply melissa says: february 19, 2019 at 10:44 am never mind, i googled it….should’ve tried that first! reply anna says: february 20, 2019 at 11:29 am please do a tutorial for egg ribbons. i googled and the first hit is a person with a really strong desire to know how to make them, its the best read. reply stephanie says: february 20, 2019 at 12:52 pm i’ll do it this month for sure :) reply amanda says: february 21, 2019 at 4:25 pm this was very tasty! i doubled everything else, but just used one can of coconut milk, so my broth was probably a little thinner. my family loved this. this is the fourth ramen soup recipe i’ve tried in the instant pot, and it was unanimously voted the winner. thanks for a great recipe! reply stephanie says: february 21, 2019 at 5:41 pm yay so happy your family loved it! warms my heart :) reply vy says: march 1, 2019 at 7:24 pm this is probably the tastiest thing i’ve made in my instant pot! i used chicken thighs instead and it came out amazing! do you have recommendations on what wonton strips to buy? had to skip this topping since i didn’t have time to go to the asian market. thanks for posting this awesome recipe! reply stephanie says: march 1, 2019 at 9:36 pm hi vy, yay!! chicken thighs are the best! it’s so funny, if i make stuff with breasts, people want to use thighs; if i use thighs, people always ask about breasts lol as for wonton strips, i just deep fried wonton skins in a tiny bit of oil. any brand of wonton skins will do. if you want to go with a store bought crunchy, you can go with some of those deep fried noodles they sell too :) reply mattsnz says: march 1, 2019 at 9:10 pm just made this, subbing in thighs because deliciousness. it was excellent, even my relatively picky 2 year old destroyed her share and was drinking the leftover broth from her bowl! reply stephanie says: march 1, 2019 at 9:21 pm hey matt! so awesome that you guys liked it. so cute that your daughter finished off the broth too! :) reply gardenia says: july 18, 2019 at 9:33 am this looks delicious. if i wanted to double up the recipe do i cook for 10min and double the recipe? reply stephanie says: july 19, 2019 at 6:51 am hi gardenia, yes, you can definitely! reply aoife kirwan says: january 13, 2020 at 12:52 pm hey, thanks for the recipe..i don’t use an instant pot so just wonder how long to cook on the stove. reply stephanie says: january 13, 2020 at 5:38 pm hi! the stove instructions are at the bottom of the recipe in italics :) reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website other posts you might enjoy february 16, 2019 camp cooking: one pan yaki udon february 16, 2019 friday finds: 11.10.17 february 16, 2019 crispy honey garlic soy baked chicken wing recipe february 16, 2019 instant pot chicken rendang recipe february 16, 2019 everything bagel spice aglio e olio pasta recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved