start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising work smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) dan matthews, cprp a certified psychosocial rehabilitation practitioner with an extensive background working with clients on community-based rehabilitation. read full profile share pin it tweet share email it’s hard to describe the frustration you feel when your professional goals keep falling flat. you’re floundering and you’re not where you want to be professionally, which bleeds into your personal life and causes you to get upset and sad easily. you need a system, a way to set goals that makes them attainable 100 percent of the time. when you establish your system, it takes the guesswork out of goal achievement and makes it a matter of completing specific steps. where would you be right now in your life if you had followed such a system from the beginning of your professional career and stuck with it? would you be owning and running your own business, would you be working for a company you love, or would you be independently creating great work that keeps you in high demand? this is where it gets good. the following tips will cover the most actionable ways to set professional goals (with professional goals examples included). if you follow these tips and do your absolute best each step of the way, you’ll have no choice but to launch into a new, exciting period in your professional life. start with tip number 1 — this tip is essential to any and all of the other tips on this list. although you’re starting with 1, this is not a linear list. you can take each tip by itself and run with it, or you can implement as many as possible — the choice is yours. that said, the more action you take, the closer you are to making tip 1 a reality. ready to grasp the very essence of what it is to succeed? keep reading. 1. identify what you love — and make a statement this is it — the single most important word is not career, it’s love. your primary, overarching, life-defining career goal must center around what you love. you figured out what you love when you were young, and then somewhere along the way you lost it in the noise, the pressure, and the clutter of everyday life. billions of people exist on this earth, and things aren’t what we wish they could be because we succumb to fear instead of doing what we love. how can you take what you love and serve this love with your career? create a statement, a single sentence that encapsulates your overarching career goal. make it specific. write the love-of your-life career goal sentence down and pin it to the wall where you’ll see it every day. make sure this sentence informs all your other objectives. make sure your primary career goal is the result of what you love to do. example: “be a successful nonfiction author: write nonfiction content — books, poems, essays, blog posts — to help people realize the priceless importance of love and the imagination, and get your content published.” 2. don’t just create smart objectives — be ultra-smart now that you have your ultimate career goal nailed to the wall, it’s time to get smart. that is, use the smart acronym to create objectives: specific measurable achievable relevant timed your smart objectives are micro-goals that fit all of the above criteria. they are not nebulous, vague, and tough to complete. they are daily objectives you know you can handle, and they’re necessary. you have to complete smart objectives in order to meet other, tougher goals, which ultimately contribute to your main goal. so how do you make your smart objectives ultra-smart? push yourself. don’t settle for the same level of output every day. don’t hold yourself to low standards. think about quality and do your absolute best. example: smart: “today i will write 500 words about the power of love between 10am and 2pm.” ultra-smart: “today i will write 500 words about the power of love between 10am and 2pm, and will find 3 accredited, scientific sources to backup my argument.” note that “ultra-smart” is not about writing more — more isn’t necessarily better, and if you’re just starting out, may not be achievable; rather, ultra-smart is about focusing on quality within a reasonable framework. 3. identify an absolutely essential stepping stone and step to it no one realizes their ultimate goal without finding a job that will push them in that direction. jobs pay, and you need money to survive, but you don’t want a job that has nothing to do with your career goal. pinpoint a job that is like an apprenticeship for what you ultimately want to do. advertising example: when famous author neil gaiman delivered his commencement address[1] — which, by the way, is phenomenal — to university of the arts in philadelphia, he said something that makes perfect sense: “i wanted to write comics and novels and stories and films, so i became a journalist, because journalists are allowed to ask questions, and to simply go and find out how the world works, and besides, to do those things i needed to write and to write well, and i was being paid to learn how to write economically, crisply, sometimes under adverse conditions, and on time.” note that gaiman’s goal was to be a creative writer, but he took a position in journalism, which isn’t creative writing; it’s about facts, writing them well, and having discipline. for gaiman, journalism was a stepping stone towards achieving his overarching goal. 4. get really, really good at crafting your resume you’re not going to settle, and there are multiple stepping stones towards your final destination. but here’s the clincher: crafting a great resume is about more than landing a job. crafting a great resume is about learning how to think from someone else’s perspective. if you can imagine what someone else wants to see in a great resume, you can view other things from their perspective too, and that’s important in the professional world. to do a resume the right way, consider the mistakes you should avoid:[2] avoid disorganization: provide your name, work experience and corresponding titles, education, relevant skills. avoid irrelevant information: consider the position you’re applying for carefully and focus on information relevant to it. avoid length: a one page resume with just the right wording is a thing of wonder. avoid showy fonts and words: be basic but let your personality shine through. avoid sloppiness: check for typos, misspelling, and grammatical mistakes. example: here’s a great resume example, courtesy of shayanne gal from business insider:[3] 5. ask yourself the most in-depth questions throughout your educational career, you heard teachers say, “there are no bad questions” or something to that effect. it’s true; however, this mantra ignored the fact that some questions are better than others. asking, “how can i do x in a unique and interesting way?” is better than asking “how can i do x?” you can set professional goals that you might accomplish, or you can set professional goals you’re highly likely to accomplish because you went in-depth with your questions. this goes very well with smart goals. specificity and detail are the hallmarks of achievable goals. example: say, for instance, you’re at the point where you feel you can start your own business from home. the hartford offers pertinent questions you should ask before doing so:[4] will your house accommodate your business? can you find work-life balance? when you interact with customers, how will you showcase a professional image? are there city zoning ordinances you need to consider? do you have the insurance and tax liabilities covered? 6. use a digital assistant to be insanely efficient executives and bosses have personal assistants to help them with scheduling, organization, and other time-consuming tasks. you may not be at the point in your career where you can afford to hire somebody, which is why it helps to have a productivity assistant to help you be more efficient. use an app to keep track of mundane scheduling and other minute details so you can free up your mind for creativity. example: see this list of task management apps . out of all of them, any.do has one of the best interfaces, and it will give you the reminders you need to stay on task. advertising 7. create a vivid mental picture discouragement can and will happen — it’s a part of life, whether professional or personal. don’t wait until you get discouraged to visualize yourself doing well. practice your mental picture of success even at the times when everything is going so well it’s unbelievable, but you’re not quite at the end-point yet. when things aren’t going well, it’ll be the much easier to remain in a positive mind-state because you practiced being there. example: social scientist frank niles provides a perfect example of goal visualization:[5] “former nba great jerry west is a great example of how this works. known for hitting shots at the buzzer, he acquired the nickname ‘mr. clutch.’ when asked what accounted for his ability to make the big shots, west explained that he had rehearsed making those same shots countless times in his mind.” note that west visualized sinking the exact shots; again, specificity matters. 8. express your professional goals positively this goes directly with the visualization process. goals can seem like chores, which is why it’s important to use positive, proactive wording when you’re vocalizing or writing things down. through positive expression, you’re training your brain to take a certain path whenever you think about your professional goals. this translates into forward, positive momentum whenever you take action. you’re more likely to take action if you associate that action with positive thoughts and feelings. example: instead of, “it isn’t that hard to type 500 words in 4 hours,” say, “i like taking advantage of the time i set aside to zone in and really have fun with what i’m doing.” note that the specific goal — 500 words in 4 hours — is implied because you already know it. the point of this statement is to associate a feeling of enjoyment with commitment and focus. 9. build your network with passion and purpose a professional network will help you hit those stepping stones necessary to achieving your ultimate goal. but you don’t want to network with just anyone. build a network with other people who share your passion, build it based around your specialty, but also look for people from outside your usual sphere who can help you gain a different perspective. demonstrate your passion by helping other people, and listen more than you talk. example: find a mentor — it’s perhaps the most critical networking move you can make. mileiq provides some examples of where to start:[6] the score business learning center small business development centers women’s business centers veteran’s business outreach centers minority business development agency a trade association through your sba district office 10. benchmark a competitor like a boss if you’re freelancing or running your own business, this one is particularly applicable to you. advertising is there an exemplary freelancer or small business owner with whom you’re impressed? analyze what this person has done to get where they are, find a metric to serve as a benchmark of their success, and aim to do better. example: benchmark social metrics — say, for example, you’re writing an article on cryptocurrency for a finance website. buzzsumo[7] provides a tool you can use to benchmark the number of social shares a competitor has earned for this topic: 11. master time management here’s the thing about professional goals: you must master time management to accomplish them. understand how much time to set aside for each objective; and when you’re working on objectives, use your time not just efficiently, but mindfully. that means immersing yourself in the activities that are essential to completing objectives. focus on what works best to achieve your desired outcome. example: life and business strategist tony robbins recommends “chunking your goals,” otherwise known as compartmentalization: write down tasks you need to get done during the week. group different tasks together based on their categories, e.g. “consult score about a mentor” and “talk to ted about job opportunities” would be categorized under “networking.” set aside time for each category. work on the tasks for a single category during a specific chunk of time. 12. identify your strengths and weaknesses — and get strategic as you move toward accomplishing your primary career goal, you’ll note that different objectives fit into different categories, and you’re better at some categories than you are others. once you know what you’re good at, focus on it. spend as much time as you can concentrating on your strong-points. when it comes to your weaknesses, ask for help. forbes contributor elana lynn gross reveals that asking for help the right way can advance your career. “ask targeted questions that will allow you to set your strategy,” gross says.[8] within any category, work on what you’re good at first, and then ask your network for help with blind spots. example: christine wallace, vp of branding and marketing at startup institute, told fast company how she ended up dropping her first venture:[9] “i took a train from the valley up to san francisco and met with two mentors, who agreed that it was the end of the road for quincy [apparel]. after it was all over i spent three weeks straight in bed. then after 21 days of sleeping, crying, i put on my big girl pants and rejoined the world.” in wallace’s case, she needed to ask her mentors for help to understand when to move on. don’t be afraid to ask for advice when something isn’t working. 13. take advantage of awesome resources at your disposal when it comes to setting professional goals, tunnel-vision and short-sightedness are big problems for many of us. we think there’s only one way to complete an objective. the truth is there are multiple ways to approach any problem. advertising this implies taking a moment to step back, view your objective from a distance, and survey your options. think differently, use your imagination, and do a thorough search — online and off — for resources. example: get a library card, scour the shelves, and crowdsource ideas from social media — you may find something unexpected. 14. be a brand that stands out believe it or not, your brand is a very important part of your overall career goal. there are two aspects here: how you appear via any published format how you appear in person it’s more important to have a quality brand than it is to be prolific, so don’t publish anything — on social media or elsewhere — that you will regret. you will make mistakes in your endeavors, and in fact it’s important to take risks and make mistakes. there are good mistakes. good mistakes are the screw-ups that show you’re striving toward your goal. anytime you set an objective, think about how it aligns with brand and overall goal. in other words, know when to say “no” to projects that don’t compliment your brand and overall mission. example: view yourself as a thought leader, be one, and make content that showcases your thought leadership:[10] videos: post on youtube, your website, and social media podcasts: learn how to start podcasting.[11] workshops or meetups: look for a community space and invite others to join you in discussion. blog posts and newspaper op-eds: share your knowledge and opinions. 15. steal ideas from your competitors this is the one truth that’s hard to stomach. great ideas come to those who steal. you may not be sure of your next step, your next objective, and time is precious. observe what other great professionals are doing, capture the core of their objectives, make them your own, and craft them into something new. example: steve jobs, the visionary behind apple, fully endorsed the picasso quote, “good artists copy, great artists steal.”[12] in 1989, xerox sued apple for stealing ideas and incorporating them in the macintosh and lisa computers, but lost the lawsuit. that’s because apple made something new. here’s a simple way to go about this. say you’re writing about freelancing, and the freelancers union blog is one of your top competitors. pop the url into buzzsumo. you’ll see that the top articles are about taxes: in that case, you can write a “definitive guide to taxes for freelancers” or “definitive guide to tax breaks for freelancers.” it’s about love and practicality combined your primary career goal must be about what you love to do. otherwise, why would you want to do it? to reach your goal, you must make small, practical steps. don’t expect everything to go perfectly along the way, and don’t eschew hard work that isn’t exactly exciting. too often, we get caught up in the excitement of the dream, and when the step-by-step isn’t nearly as exciting, we quit. learn how to do the boring, rote tasks with joy because you’re doing them to achieve greatness. always remember why you set out on a mission to begin with, and let your brain follow your heart. more tips for setting professional goals how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 15 personal goals for work to help you succeed tap into success on the job with these long term career goals tips featured photo credit: rawpixel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ university of the arts: neil gaiman: keynote address 2012 [2] ^ western governors university: “5 most common resume mistakes” [3] ^ business insider: “17 things that make this the perfect resume” [4] ^ the hartford: “five questions to ask yourself before starting a business from your home” [5] ^ huffington post: ”how to use visualization to achieve your goals” [6] ^ mileiq: “how to find a business mentor” [7] ^ backlinko: “buzzsumo: the definitive guide” [8] ^ forbes: “how asking for help the right way advances your career” [9] ^ fast company: “11 famous entrepreneurs share how they overcame their biggest failure” [10] ^ amsterdam printing: “want to be a thought leader? here are 5 ways to showcase your expertise” [11] ^ buffer: “podcasting for beginners: the complete guide to getting started with podcasts” [12] ^ cnet: “what steve jobs really meant when he said, ‘good artists copy, great artists steal’” share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to achieve a realistic work life balance 15 personal goals for work to help you succeed what are smart goals (and how to use them to become successful) advertising advertising more by this author dan matthews, cprp a certified psychosocial rehabilitation practitioner with an extensive background working with clients on community-based rehabilitation. 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 15 ways to stop overthinking and worrying about everything how to start a new life without sacrificing everything you have how to be more positive: 15 habits to take up how to stop negative thoughts from killing your confidence advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author dan matthews, cprp a certified psychosocial rehabilitation practitioner with an extensive background working with clients on community-based rehabilitation. 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 15 ways to stop overthinking and worrying about everything how to start a new life without sacrificing everything you have how to be more positive: 15 habits to take up how to stop negative thoughts from killing your confidence trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next 24 best to-do list apps to keep you on track in 2020 how to compartmentalize to get more done tap into success on the job with these long term career goals tips how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) advertising advertising work smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) brian lee chief of product management at lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email taking your work to the next level means setting and keeping career goals. a career goal is a targeted objective that explains what you want your ultimate profession to be. defining career goals is a critical step to achieving success. you need to know where you’re going in order to get there. knowing what your career goals are isn’t just important for you–it’s important for potential employers too. the relationship between an employer and an employee works best when your goals for the future and their goals align. saying, “oh, i don’t know. i’ll do anything,” makes you seem indecisive, and opens you up to taking on ill-fitting tasks that won’t lead you to your dream life. career goal templates’ one-size-fits-all approach won’t consider your unique goals and experiences. they won’t help you stand out, and they may not reflect your full potential. in this article, i’ll help you to define your career goals with smart goal framework, and will provide you with a list of examples goals for work and career. table of contents how to define your career goal with smart why you need an individual development plan 40 examples of goals for work & career for changing a job for switching career path for getting a promotion for acing a job interview career goal setting faqs summary more tips about setting work goals how to define your career goal with smart instead of relying on a generalized framework to explain your vision, use a tried-and-true goal-setting model. smart is an acronym for “specific, measurable, action-oriented, realistic with timelines.”[1] the smart framework demystifies goals by breaking them into smaller steps. helpful hints when setting smart career goals: advertising start with short-term goals first. work on your short-term goals, and then progress the long-term interests.[2] short-term goals are those things which take 1-3 years to complete. long-term goals take 3-5 years to do. as you succeed in your short-term goals, that success should feed into accomplishing your long-term goals. be specific, but don’t overdo it. you need to define your career goals, but if you make them too specific, then they become unattainable. instead of saying, “i want to be the next ceo of apple, where i’ll create a billion-dollar product,” try something like, “my goal is to be the ceo of a successful company.” get clear on how you’re going to reach your goals. you should be able to explain the actions you’ll take to advance your career. if you can’t explain the steps, then you need to break your goal down into more manageable chunks. don’t be self-centered. your work should not only help you advance, but it should also support the goals of your employer. if your goals differ too much, then it might be a sign that the job you’ve taken isn’t a good fit. if you want to learn more about setting smart goals, watch the video below to learn how you can set smart career goals. after you’re clear on how to set smart goals, you can use this framework to tackle other aspects of your work. for instance, you might set smart goals to improve your performance review, look for a new job, or shift your focus to a different career. we’ll cover examples of ways to use smart goals to meet short-term career goals in the next section. why you need an individual development plan setting goals is one part of the larger formula for success. you may know what you want to do, but you also have to figure out what skills you have, what you lack, and where your greatest strengths and weaknesses are. one of the best ways to understand your capabilities is by using the science careers individual development plan skills assessment. it’s free, and all you need to do is register an account and take a few assessments. advertising these assessments will help you determine if your career goals are realistic. you’ll come away with a better understanding of your unique talents and skill-sets. you may decide to change some of your career goals or alter your timeline based on what you learn. 40 examples of goals for work & career all this talk of goal-setting and self-assessment may sound great in theory, but perhaps you need some inspiration to figure out what your goals should be. for changing a job attend more networking events and make new contacts. achieve a promotion to __________ position. get a raise. plan and take a vacation this year. agree to take on new responsibilities. develop meaningful relationships with your coworkers and clients. ask for feedback on a regular basis. learn how to say, “no,” when you are asked to take on too much. delegate tasks that you no longer need to be responsible for. strive to be in a leadership role in __ number of years. for switching career path pick up and learn a new skill. find a mentor. become a volunteer in the field that interests you. commit to getting training or going back to school. read the most recent books related to your field. decide whether you are happy with your work-life balance and make changes if necessary. [3] plan what steps you need to take to change careers.[4] compile a list of people who could be character references or submit recommendations. commit to making __ number of new contacts in the field this year. create a financial plan. for getting a promotion reduce business expenses by a certain percentage. stop micromanaging your team members. become a mentor. brainstorm ways that you could improve your productivity and efficiency at work seek a new training opportunity to address a weakness.[5] find a way to organize your work space.[6] seek feedback from a boss or trusted coworker every week/ month/ quarter. become a better communicator. find new ways to be a team player. learn how to reduce work hours without compromising productivity. for acing a job interview identify personal boundaries at work and know what you should do to make your day more productive and manageable. identify steps to create a professional image for yourself. go after the career of your dreams to find work that does not feel like a job. look for a place to pursue your interest and apply your knowledge and skills. find a new way to collaborate with experts in your field. identify opportunities to observe others working in the career you want. become more creative and break out of your comfort zone. ask to be trained more relevant skills for your work. ask for opportunities to explore the field and widen your horizon set your eye on a specific award at work and go for it. career goal setting faqs i’m sure you still have some questions about setting your own career goals, so here i’m listing out the most commonly asked questions about career goals. 1. what if i’m not sure what i want my career to be? if you’re uncertain, be honest about it. let the employer know as much as you know about what you want to do. express your willingness to use your strengths to contribute to the company. when you take this approach, back up your claim with some examples. if you’re not even sure where to begin with your career, check out this guide: how to find your ideal career path without wasting time on jobs not suitable for you advertising 2. is it okay to lie about my career goals? lying to potential employers is bound to end in disaster. in the interview, a lie can make you look foolish because you won’t know how to answer follow up questions. even if you think your career goal may not precisely align with the employer’s expectations for a long-term hire, be open and honest. there’s probably more common ground than they realize, and it’s up to you to bridge any gaps in expectations. being honest and explaining these connections shows your employer that you’ve put a lot of thought into this application. you aren’t just telling them what they want to hear. 3. is it better to have an ambitious goal, or should i play it safe? you should have a goal that challenges you, but smart goals are always reasonable. if you put forth a goal that is way beyond your capabilities, you will seem naive. making your goals too easy shows a lack of motivation. employers want new hires who are able to self-reflect and are willing to take on challenges. 4. can i have several career goals? it’s best to have one clearly-defined career goal and stick with it. (of course, you can still have goals in other areas of your life.) having a single career goal shows that you’re capable of focusing, and it shows that you like to accomplish what you set out to do. advertising on the other hand, you might have multiple related career goals. this could mean that you have short-term goals that dovetail into your ultimate long-term career goal. you might also have several smaller goals that feed into a single purpose. for example, if you want to become a lawyer, you might become a paralegal and attend law school at the same time. if you want to be a school administrator, you might have initial goals of being a classroom teacher and studying education policy. in both cases, these temporary jobs and the extra education help you reach your ultimate goal. summary you’ll have to devote some time to setting career goals, but you’ll be so much more successful with some direction. remember to: set smart goals. smart goals are specific, measurable, action-oriented, and realistic with timelines. when you set goals with these things in mind, you are likely to achieve the outcomes you want. have short-term and long-term goals. short-term career goals can be completed in 1-3 years, while long-term goals will take 3-5 years to finish. your short-term goals should set you up to accomplish your long-term goals. assess your capabilities by coming up with an individual development plan. knowing how to set goals won’t help you if you don’t know yourself. understand what your strengths and weaknesses are by taking some self-assessments. choose goals that are appropriate to your ultimate aims. your career goals should be relevant to one another. if they aren’t, then you may need to narrow your focus. your goals should match the type of job that you want and the quality of life that you want to lead. be clear about your goals with potential employers. always be honest with potential employers about what you want to do with your life. if your goals differ from the company’s objectives, find a way bridge the gap between what you want for yourself and what your employer expects. by doing goal-setting work now, you’ll be able to make conscious choices on your career path. you can always adjust your plan if things change for you, but the key is to give yourself a road map for success. more tips about setting work goals 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 15 personal goals for work to make you stand out from your coworkers how to create an action plan and achieve your personal goals featured photo credit: tyler franta via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ achievit: the history and evolution of smart goals [2] ^ she knows: career planning: smart goals [3] ^ career addict: 13 examples of achievable career goals [4] ^ job interview site.com: career goals: examples of career goals and objectives [5] ^ science: goal-setting strategies for scientific and career success [6] ^ udemy: career goal examples: top 6 achievable career goals share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 15 personal goals for work to help you succeed how to create an action plan and achieve your personal goals how to find your ideal career path without wasting time on jobs not suitable for you advertising advertising more by this author brian lee chief of product management at lifehack how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) how to answer behavioral based interview questions smartly 7 best project management apps to boost productivity 100 incredible life hacks that make life so much easier 10 best new products that people don’t know about advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.