home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my motherhood prevnext 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? leyla preston sun 13th mar 2011 1shares share tweet pin times are tough for hubby and i at the moment… aron may have started teething already, but as this is our first experience with a teething baby, we’re not too sure what to look for apart from red gums and rosy cheeks apparently. without really knowing what to do, when aron looks seemingly uncomfortable, i place my little finger in his mouth, so he can bite down really hard and try to gnaw my finger off. we ended up buying aron a couple of teethers, so that he can use something completely detached from me anytime he wants and i get a break! unfortunately, he is not quite competent at grabbing objects with his hands and putting them in his mouth yet. so, when he makes a yelping sound, we bring the teether to his mouth and chomps away for a good few minutes. i do wish that aron could talk sometimes, just so he could tell me what’s bothering him because i can’t tell whether he’s having tummy trouble or he is suffering from raw gums, which don’t look that inflamed, to be honest. i am keeping a close eye on them anyway. on top of the possible teething trouble, my marriage has taken a bit of a beating too. i feel like i’m not factoring in anytime to spend with hubby, who has been pushing for us to spend one night a week alone together, to recapture that spark that seems to have faded in our relationship. but, at the moment, all i can think about is how i will find the time to work on my blog or do my exercise? what’s wrong with me!? my husband blatantly wants to do something nice for me – most women would wish to have such a doting and attentive husband, yet i don’t seem to have the time for him. at the moment, hubby and i are on totally different pages. he has to commute to and from work and then he doesn’t get home until about 8 pm. he’s so tired that all he wants to do is crash out in front of the tv. 8 pm, for me, is allocated to my website and exercise, as i have no time during the day to do either and i end up lagging behind on the website and/or getting flabby. it’s not important, i know, but somehow i have decided that i need to look after aron, clean the house, go to playgroup, type, work on the website and exercise, all in a day’s work, otherwise i feel like some kind of failure. i don’t know why i do it to myself, but i have allocated absolutely no time for my husband. it’s not that i don’t love him – on the contrary – i am so comfortable and happy with him that i feel i don’t need to work hard at the relationship. in all the haze of motherhood, my new found health kick and burning the midnight oil, i decided to arrange a meeting with my best friend this saturday. but, it had later transpired that hubby and i had already planned to do something together on that day. i had totally forgotten about it! the whole kerfuffle ended up with hubby pouring out his feelings, about how he felt neglected and that i never factor him into my life anymore. this outburst really made me think hard about my priorities. he was even understanding enough to urge me to not change my plans with my best friend, as i hardly see my friends anymore and that just made me feel super guilty. so, i made a mental note to work much harder at the relationship to make hubby happy. he deserves so much more attention from me! on a lighter note, aron is growing up really fast. he may not be completely competent at grabbing things and putting them in his mouth yet, but he is developing the motor skills to do just that. if i dangle toys in front of him, he will slowly, but surely, reach out to grab them, and he will successfully hold onto them for a few seconds, but then he ends up dropping them onto the floor. he laughs when he sees my face close up and stares open-mouthed at me when i speak. i can see that he is starting to understand english and swiss german now (hubby speaks to him in swiss german when he comes home from work). we also went to aron’s weigh-in clinic again and aron weighed a whopping 7.88kg! he’s grown another 500 grams in two weeks and i am really happy with the steady weight gain, even if he is placed in the 98th percentile in terms of weight for a baby boy of his age, i.e. two babies out of every hundred weigh more than him. i have also given exercising a real shot again this week and noticed a reduction in my milk supply. i don’t think that exercise has got anything to do with it, but i think it may have something to do with a nasty stomach bug that i had caught the week before and the effects of my milk supply are starting to show now. i wasn’t able to eat for three days and, in turn, reduced the calories i had taken in, which probably impacted on the amount of milk i produced. i tried to feed aron more than usual and let him suckle at the breast for longer, so those chemicals that tell the brain to produce more milk would kick start again. i really hope it works because i really don’t want to stop breastfeeding now. a fun fact – your baby may be eager to stand when s/he is on your lap. looking for more breastfeeding posts? click here click here for more posts on teething never miss a new post! don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want to read! follow motherhood diaries on facebook (facebook recipes page), twitter, pinterest, instagram, google+ and linkedin if you’d like to share your pregnancy or parenting story, then please do share your story here. don’t forget to read our ad policy! leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:blogbreastfeedingdevelopmentexercisemilkmilk supplymotherhoodrelationshipteethingtimeweight gain related posts the benefits of breastfeeding how to give yourself a little boost with... how to keep yourself healthy and benefit... sm’s birth story how to improve your eyesight now letting baby do the work: biological nur... the truth about breastfeeding how i’ve changed in thirty years, 1983 &... ozeri 4x3motion digital pocket 3d pedome... newborn parenting courses.com by jacqui ... how you can encourage your child to be a... 32 weeks pregnant – things are rea... mystery shopping and motherhood sm’s cs birth story breastfeeding twins george’s birth story how to be an active mum things you can do before opting for surg... healthy weight loss after pregnancy the reality of motherhood 34 weeks pregnant – antenatal clas... how to get fit with beats headphones healthy lifestyle habits when you have a... top five restful activities for parents ... my breastfeeding experience got me down my top ten tips for travelling with tiri... perfect your pelvic floor this 2017 with... how i lost breastfeeding and got it back the benefits of walking during pregnancy where does your fat go when you lose wei... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok