skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 16 best responsive paid wordpress gallery plugins 2020 16 best responsive paid wordpress gallery plugins 2020 march 13, 2020 rokr plugins 1 comment to bring your photo content to an entirely new level, paid wordpress gallery plugins are the right way to go. so far, you were using a free gallery plugin for wordpress but you feel it is time to upgrade. in most of the cases, if you are satisfied with the free tool you were using so far, you can simply upgrade to the premium version. for others, we hunt through the web to find a collection of the best options for you. there are many gallery plugins available, however, you do not have to go through all of them. find some of the most popular below and enhance your website with a sensational photo gallery. and, of course, save plenty of time you would otherwise spend on finding the ideal plugin for your site. notice: along with all the photo gallery creators, you will also find a video gallery plugin. but many support all media anyway. sort all your compelling clips and short movies in a precise order. all these paid wordpress gallery plugins come perfect for wedding websites, personal portfolio pages, and food blogs to name a few. wordpress allows you to get as creative as you want with your content and publish just about any type of it. but there is a catch. wp, by default, does not come with as many features as you would like. moreover, what is available normally lacks functionality. that said, you need to install a plugin for the specific task you would like to realize. and when it comes to galleries, the wordpress default gallery might not be enough for you anymore. you will greatly benefit by installing any of the paid wordpress gallery plugins we prepared for you. essential grid are you someone versatile, who is using different formats of content on their website? if you need to step up your representational game, the essential grid plugin is a multi-purpose grid building tool for your wordpress website. all types of grids created with the plugin are fully responsive and retina ready. whatever device users are using for browsing your website, they will always enjoy flipping through your content. to really see what is possible with essential grid, there are over thirty skins available for you to check. along with creating outstanding image galleries, you can also use essential grid plugin for portfolios, price tables, woocommerce shops and videos. in short, all is possible with this flexible and extensible product. with the visual skin builder, you can improve the existing ones or create new skins from scratch. later on, you can import or export your creations (grids and skins) to use them with different themes and even a new wordpress installation. there are literally no limits with essential grid. make your products appear in a nice slider or your service prices in a lovely table. but that is just the tiniest percent of what you can do with essential grid. more info / download demo justified image grid showcase all your amazing image material with a dedicated grid plugin that goes by the name justified image grid. from portraits, wedding photography, architecture, portfolios, travel and all the rest, justified image grid helps you build a gallery for every project with ease. your masterpieces will get a totally new meaning when displaying them professionally. every gallery put together with justified image grid is very enjoyable to browse through. it is a flow your visitors do not want to end once they find themselves hooked by your fantastic visual creations. justified image grid builds a horizontal image grid which feels natural, and familiar, to the eye. your photographers keep the original ratio and appear in grid exactly how you wanted in the first place. to add a distinct look to it, justified image grid allows you to incorporate different effects and make it even more eye-catching. use softening, desaturation, black and white and different lightbox options. for your responsive galleries, you can also use content from facebook and flickr. no need to upload twice. if you already used the same content on, let’s say facebook, link it to your website with justified image grid. let it be from 3rd parties or new media library uploads, use justified image grid for putting together expert galleries without any prior knowledge. more info / download demo media grid do you need one solution for all your media, photo, image and video? media grid, hence the name, is the paid wordpress gallery plugin which will take care of all your needs. you will start hammering out incredible galleries based on the masonry style. after the one-click installation, you can move straight to picking one from ten presets to speed up your workflow. or you can entirely customize the look and personalize it. media grid’s advanced features will allow you to do that without breaking a single drop of sweat. for building your desired grid, the visual builder makes the process fun and entertaining. you only need to add content, specify size and sort them in the exact order you would like them to appear on your page. exactly how you structure it in the visual grid builder, it will become visible on your blog or website. use dynamic grid mode to create as big grids as you would like and sort items by randomization and/or pagination. media grid also allows you to use your existing posts which will be managed as grids. more info / download demo video gallery while in most of the cases, when someone speaks about a gallery, he or she means a photo gallery. but gallery can also be a video one. if that’s what you are looking for, video gallery plugin is the tool for you. it comes with ten skins (more to come?) and a skin generator for you to build your own versions easily. compatibility with youtube, vimeo, facebook and self-hosted (mp4) content is smooth as butter. “can i use an entire youtube playlist or vimeo channel with video gallery?” of course. having multiple galleries in one is not a problem at all. you can even mix things up, using youtube, vimeo and your videos within one gallery. sounds interesting, right? every gallery you form with video gallery is responsive, retina and touch ready. the plugin also generates html5 videos for visitors using apple devices. to track how your videos are doing, integrated analytics provide all the necessary statistics. learn which is the best performing one and which does not get any views at all. if you are starting from scratch and don’t have a website built yet, look into our best wordpress video themes for embedded and self-hosted videos. more info / download demo elfsight portfolio creating a professional and eye-catchy portfolio need not be complicated with the right wordpress gallery plugin. thanks to elfsight portfolio, you can now make one in a little breeze. even if you do not really have experience with coding and design, you will still succeed at it. yes, working with elfsight portfolio is simple and very beginner-friendly. elfsight portfolio also works with any wordpress theme, guaranteeing a smooth integration and beautiful enhancement of your overall web presence. you can create categories and optional clickable elements that open the image and its details in a pop-up. of course, you can perform additional tweaks and improvements to make the gallery fit your website and branding precisely. moreover, if you will ever need extra help, the plugin’s professional support will always give you a helping hand. more info / download mosa mosa is an enticing and creative wordpress gallery plugin with an array of options and features that will get you going in little to no time. first and foremost, just like any other tool on this list, mosa will also never ask you for coding knowledge. no need to write code to make a stunning gallery! moreover, the final design will also practice all the modern trends, appearing on all devices and web browsers beautifully. yes, mosa is 100% responsive. what’s more, mosa treats you to eight starter templates, ten skins, four filter layouts and the convenient drag and drop technique. you can also use mosa for both video and image content. thanks to the fantastic documentation, you will never run into issues with setting up the gallery that showcases your works in the best possible light. more info / download fliperrr fliperrr is something a tad different compared to all the other wordpress gallery plugins that this comprehensive collection brings to the table. if you are particularly interested in making a flipbook for whatever occasion, you can now do it like a pro with fliperrr. whether you would like to showcase new product drops or put together an online magazine, with fliperrr, you can make it happen all and then some. the options truly are endless. in short, fliperrr converts any pdf file into a beautiful flipbook. with all the additional customization functions, you can easily and quickly tailor the design to your needs without performing any advanced tasks. fliperrr is also fully optimized for excellent mobile performance. a few extras are single-page view, full-screen mode, practical navigation, sounds and super fast loading speed. more info / download go portfolio when you complete a few projects either for your clients or for personal skill-building needs, you should not miss displaying them on your website. with go portfolio, you can add a portfolio in an existing post or forge a custom post for your creative work. one, three or fifteen portfolios, assemble as many as you would like. no matter the amount you introduce to your website, you are able to manage them all with one tool. but go portfolio goes beyond that. upon installation of go portfolio paid wordpress gallery plugin, you will witness an extensive amount of features that the admin panel comes with. go portfolio fluently blends into your existing website, custom and classic blog posts. you can use different thumbnail and lightbox types, make it images, videos or audios. in general, go portfolio is a responsive grid system with modifiable horizontal and vertical spaces. the limits are close to zero with go portfolio plugin. use it for creating whichever type of portfolio you would like and make your website reach an entirely new level of expertness. do you need to build a portfolio to impress visitors and potential clients with your incredible work? you might find the ideal solution in our collection of the top-notch portfolio website templates. more info / download demo cicerone if you are already using gmedia wp plugin, chances are, you will want to put to use cicerone extension. it is a multi-grid gallery module for showcasing images and other visuals in even, masonry or justified grids. you can play around with different functions and see what works best for you. however, you can always (split) test one against the other and see what keeps them engaged for longer. however, any option you choose, it is a guarantee that your photographies will look phenomenal indeed. cicerone is entirely responsive and mobile-ready, as well as cross-browser compatible. you can also set different tag filters for the end user to find the content he or she is interested in quicker. other features of cicerone are thumbnail navigation, likes, comments, touch navigation, zoom and free-scroll mode to name a few. more info / download demo wp media boxes whether you are a photographer, an artist or a web designer, if you would like to display your works and projects, do it with style. with wp media boxes, a wordpress gallery plugin, you can achieve outstanding results without the need to spend too much time and effort on building the must-have grid. wp media boxes works great with pushing blog posts, create boxed or full-width gallery, portfolio, showcase clients, you name it. the options truly are endless, and you do not really need to use wp media boxes strictly for photographies and graphic designs. the plugin is 100% customizable, mobile-ready and retina-friendly. your galleries and portfolios will also work seamlessly on all modern web browsers for a continuous killer experience. other goodies come in the form of powerful filtering system, overlay effect, deep linking, custom ratio and insanely fast performance. more info / download demo portfolio designer portfolio designer is a wordpress gallery plugin for crafting beautiful portfolios. it offers you to choose between four different styles of layouts: grid, masonry, slider and justify. additionally, portfolio designer also comes with over fifty hover effects and fully supports audio and video content. on top of that, you can easily brand the freshly created portfolio by picking any color you want. in short, you will have a breeze setting up the gallery or portfolio that you want to rock on your website or blog. the design is indeed responsive, following all the latest trends and regulations, making sure that the experience is of the highest degree at all times. moreover, you can import and export layouts, install the demo of choice with one click and introduce one from three included pagination types. download portfolio designer now and you are ready to roll. more info / download demo noo before after something a little different this time, the noo before after plugin. the name of this next wordpress extension is pretty self-explanatory. it is a tool that gives you a chance to create before-after images. this works great for an assortment of different projects where you would like to show the progress of. this could work with retouching images, teeth whitening, barbers, interior design, i mean, the options are endless. noo before after plugin is fully compatible with the popular drag and drop page builders for seamless integration. additional goodies of this neat item are responsiveness and mobile-readiness, easy to use, shortcodes, custom colors, rtl support and automatic updates. every user also gets access to in-depth documentation and free professional help. with noo before after, you can effortlessly level up your online presence and make it even more enticing. more info / download demo swipebook swipebook is another banging wordpress plugin for everyone out there who is interested in showcasing pdf files on their website. this could be a magazine, a portfolio or something entirely off the charts. swipebook creates a cool flipbook that everyone will enjoy flipping through. bear in mind, while other similar tools offer a page flip function, swipebook sports horizontal swipe navigation. the entire process of installing and setting up swipebook is child’s play. you simply pick from the ready-made templates and go from there. when working with swipebook, you can also customize functions such as flip speed, autoplay, background, colors, zoom and more. it also features text search, hyperlinks, lightbox mode and full-screen viewing. if you would like to push your works, projects and any other type of content and add a distinct touch to it, then swipebook is one of the best options to choose. more info / download demo social gallery to make browsing your images a real social experience, you should examine social gallery. it is a plugin with a lightbox that you will find similar to the facebook’s look. bring about a familiar design and people will have a feeling like they have visited your website several times already. this may make them stay for longer and revisit you in the future to see what you and your website are up to. making a layout familiar with what the bigger sites are using can be a great strategy to turn a unique guest into a loyal reader. social gallery premium wordpress gallery plugin is compatible with essential grid, nextgen gallery and justified image grid plugins. working with your current gallery and stepping it up a few notches saves time and effort with social gallery. add cool animations and transitions and create an unforgettable experience. bear in mind, although social gallery comes with a facebook-like style out of the box, you can freely customize it however you want. individualize it or use your company branding and make it something special. with social gallery, you will not have a problem getting people to engage, like, share and comment on your images. next time you visit your website, there is going to be a lot going on. more info / download demo global gallery global gallery is a wordpress plugin which will help you display your images with mobile-ready galleries. globally or just for the desired page or blog posts on your website. combine the newly designed galleries with your website naturally and let users enjoy study the pics from any device. included are three gallery layouts, ten lightboxes, a slider and a carousel. with the three different layouts, it will feel like you actually have three different tools for galleries installed. but there is only one which is powerful enough to rock different looks. you do not have to use only your freshly uploaded images to the media gallery. global gallery supports a range of image sources, like facebook page, twitter, google+, instagram and pinterest amongst many others. if you feel like protecting your images, global gallery comes with the watermarking feature. you will definitely become a fan of the plugin once you start using all of its assets. not only that, it comes with an awesome support and automatic updates direct from wordpress. be it for your own website or for your client’s, creating the much needed image galleries will be quick and efficient with global gallery. more info / download demo unite gallery video and photo wordpress galleries are all sorted with the unite gallery plugin. you get ten gallery types and a special video gallery theme for designing responsive and mobile friendly galleries. indeed, it is possible to use both photos and videos in a single gallery to make it more dynamic. as far as the videos go, unite gallery plays youtube, vimeo, wistia and html5 types of videos. in total, you can benefit from over 120 options which you can use to tailor each gallery you make exactly how you fancy. for video galleries, choose between three skins but you can also do custom. no need to be restricted to only the one available. use your creativity and turn it into something truly inspiring. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. wordpress gallery pluginswordpress plugins share this share tweet pin it share rokr rok is a professional content creator and an enthusiastic marketer who spends most of his day behind the screen, drinking coffee and listening to black metal. but he never misses a daily workout to get the blood flow going. he goes by the quote, "only a fool worries over what he can't control." related posts 10 smooth live streaming wordpress plugins make your website come to life by streaming your content in front of a live… top wordpress maintenance plugins to handle planned website downtime like a pro i've already discussed what causes unplanned downtime and what unplanned downtime might cost a business… 10 functional google drive plugins to use on your site a backup drive is undoubtedly needed on your website. it will save you from the… top 24 jquery plugins for social media sharing 2019 if you're not running a wordpress blog, then social sharing plugins might be out of… 21 best cryptocurrency wordpress plugins, widgets & scripts 2020 if you are building a website for the coin market, then you most certainly need… 9 most accurate wordpress visitor counter plugins are you thinking about adding visitors counter on your website to display the number of… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 16 best free wordpress instagram plugins for your killer feeds next post: top 16 content protection plugins for wordpress websites we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×