skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 16 best free wordpress instagram plugins for your killer feeds 16 best free wordpress instagram plugins for your killer feeds march 12, 2020 rokr plugins 0 comments by picking any of the following free wordpress instagram plugins, you can enhance your website with more awesome visuals. you can use your own profile or someone else’s as the source. also, blending instagram posts into your blog or website does not require much work. the question is: are you on instagram? if not, you might be missing a ton of targeted promotion. it is a fantastic platform for spreading your name out. the popular medium for sharing photos and videos can be highly beneficial for all creative individuals and firms out there. besides, if done correctly, any company can use instagram for good. it gets you on a more personal level with your audience, especially now, with the stories. be experimental and artistic, and you might soon witness great things happening for your business only by using instagram. the free wordpress instagram plugins link the social media platform to your page in a breeze. you can decide whether you would like your insta feed to display in the sidebar, in the footer, or even in posts and pages. with the account information, you can introduce any profile to your website and have their visual content do the entertainment for you. depending on the plugin, you can select which photos you would like to display and how many. you can even pick your preferred style. for instance, you can choose the carousel or grid view. instagram gallery adding a stunning instagram gallery to your wordpress website can definitely lift up your existing web design. with a free wordpress instagram plugin, you can make it happen almost instantly. you can also choose to display your pictures on your website as a gallery or a carousel slider, whatever you prefer. in addition, you can choose pick up images either from an instagram profile or from a hashtag. instagram gallery allows you to display up to 20 images on a page, and you can also set how many photos you would like to showcase per slide. once you install the plugin, you need to generate instagram access token first and then add it to the plugin. to add instagram gallery to your website, you simply copy and paste the shortcode. you can even use it in the widget’s area. more info / download instagram slider and carousel plus widget if you are already posting a ton of mind-bending photographs on your instagram account, why wouldn’t you want to push them on your page as well? there is no need to create a separate image gallery if you can use a free wordpress instagram plugin that does the trick. the integration process is super quick and straightforward, offering you to add your instagram photos swiftly. not only that, but you can also showcase your visuals in the grid or slider mode. in addition to that, you can indeed add instagram slider and carousel plus widget in the widget’s area either in the sidebar, the footer, or any other location that suits you best. although the free version will run smoothly on your website, you must know that you can go premium any time you want. it unlocks even more features and different designs and styles. more info / download instagram slider widget as the name suggests, instagram slider widget is a free wordpress instagram plugin that will help you import your 12 latest images into your wordpress website or blog. you can display pictures from a public instagram account or use a relevant hashtag. with the extension, you can display content in a slider or thumbnails and boost your already outstanding site experience. of course, the widget is also fully responsive and compatible with all modern web browsers. other features of instagram slider widget are as follows: the option to sort images by popularity or date or randomly, no api key, and the option to link images to an instagram profile, custom url or no url at all. all it takes are four simple steps to install and activate the plugin. you can then see your instagram photographs appear on your web space. more info / download catch instagram feed gallery & widget catch instagram feed gallery & widget is another fantastic and super simple-to-use free wordpress instagram plugin. it is a tool that gives you an option to bring your instagram images to your wordpress page. it works with a blog, an online magazine, or a business website. in short, it is a two-in-one plugin offering you to create jaw-dropping galleries in posts as well as in the widget area. the key features of catch instagram feed gallery & widget are 100% mobile-readiness and cross-browser compatibility. you can also choose to display thumbnails and small or large images for up to 30 instagram feeds. follow a super straightforward installation process that will get you going in no time. more info / download instagram feed wd instagram feed wd offers endless options. you can display instagram galleries on your pages, posts, sidebars, and footer. simply drag and drop the widget or place the simple shortcode where you would want the insta feed to appear on your website. the instagram feed can be based on the account or the hashtag. one cool feature of instagram feed wd is the download option, which means that users can save any insta post they like. for feeds, pagination or load more options are available. with instagram feed wd, you can present both photos and videos and customize the feed to follow your website’s design. to unlock the plugin’s full potential, upgrade to the pro version. more info / download instagram feed instagram feed is one of the most popular free wordpress plugins for implementing feeds from different accounts to your website. its only limitation is that it cannot display private accounts, but that is kinda obvious. other than that, you can use instagram feed to show single or multiple feeds. that depends on what your website is all about. bloggers would want to display only their feeds, while an agency might display their clients’ feeds. for agencies, each account can have its own feed, or you can combine all accounts and use only one feed. instagram feed makes galleries appear beautifully on any screen resolution. it is fully responsive, readjusting its size in an instant. with the shortcode options, you can modify each instagram feed separately. that way, you can make it naturally mix with your layout. you can show thumbnails, medium or full-size pictures. at the top of the feed, you can have a stunning header. at the bottom, users will find the follow button. growing your instagram profile on your websites is possible. with a beautiful instagram feed, you can have your page or blog updated with new content on a regular basis. along with the primary content, this could be a way to encourage your visitors to keep returning or to start following you on instagram. more info / download feed them social feed them social is an all-in-one wordpress plugin for all major social media platforms, including instagram. installation and setting up are easy as pie. with just the tiniest amount of effort, you can display instagram feeds of just about anyone on your website. you can feature your favorite company’s feed, celebrity feeds, or, most importantly, your very own insta feed. there is no limitation on how many feeds you want to insert into your page. do as many as you like. with the free feed them social instagram plugin for wordpress, you can place social feeds on any page, in the posts, or on the sidebar. by using the quick and efficient shortcode generator, feed them social allows you to create codes for any feed you want. customize font colors, share instagram options, and add follow buttons above or below the feeds. it all comes very easy with feed them social, a simple-to-use product that will make inserting instagram feeds to your blogs and business pages uncomplicated. also, each feed you create with feed them social is entirely mobile-ready. more info / download accesspress instagram feed for a distinct look, accesspress instagram feed comes ready with three different layouts to choose from. use the basic, the slider, or the lightbox mode. you can also display your marvelous feed in an original mosaic view with an amazing hover effect. share the number of likes, and even add the follow button to increase the overall number of your instagram followers. you might be surprised how many visitors who land on your website have never seen your instagram profile. give them the opportunity to join straight from your website. to make this plugin work, all you have to do is use the widget or shortcode and place it where you would like the feed to come into view. then, use instagram api, and just about any instagram account can become part of your page. accesspress instagram feed is easy to use, sporting an interactive user interface. you can also upgrade to the premium version to unlock even more features. however, if you are fully satisfied with the free version, by all means, use it for as long as you want (read forever). more info / download wp instant feeds wp instant feeds is a pretty self-explanatory free wordpress instagram plugin. if you would like your website or blog to display your insta feed, well, this is the plugin that you choose. why only featuring your amazing content on instagram when you can spice things up on your page, too? you can now make it happen in a little breeze, as the setup is swift and straightforward. with this particular plugin, you need to access tokens to be able to use it. wp instant feeds comes with a convenient shortcode that helps you display your feed on different locations of your website. you add your instagram username, set the number of images, how many items per row and even arrange the size of the thumbnail. and yes, you set it all directly in the shortcode, no need for anything else. more info / download photo gallery by 10web photo gallery by 10web is a full-blown solution for building outstanding galleries to add to your site or blog. of course, your creation will be entirely responsive, beautifully displaying content on all devices, from handheld and up to desktop. also, it takes you barely any time to set things up and level your website’s presence up. no prior experience is necessary to successfully use and greatly profit from photo gallery by 10web. what’s also cool about this free wordpress plugin is the fact that it supports 3rd-party platforms. indeed, you can also employ photo gallery by 10web for presenting your instagram content on your page. you only need to copy and paste the link, and you are ready to go. last but not least, the plugin also gives you control over the design so that you can style it according to your style effortlessly. more info / download meks easy photo feed widget meks easy photo feed widget is one of the easiest free wordpress instagram plugins. instead of spending a fee to display your instagram content on your website, you can do it at no charge. with meks easy photo feed widget, you get to set all sorts of different parameters and design improvements, so that the end product appears as beautiful as possible on your website or blog. no need for any technical knowledge either, as the plugin will never ask you to perform advanced tasks. very newbie-friendly, if you will. moreover, meks easy photo feed widget offers you to capture images by username or hashtag. keep in mind, it supports multiple accounts and hashtags, mixing and matching content from different locations. you can also set how many images you would like to display, as well as the spacing between images. finally, meks easy photo feed widget comes with built-in caching, too. more info / download enjoy instagram with enjoy instagram, you can use either the carousel or the grid view (with lightbox effect). display feeds based on hashtags or accounts for as long as they are public; otherwise, nothing will show. the free instagram plugin exclusive for wordpress users is equipped with a widget and a shortcode. this means that it makes integration of any instagram feed into your web page the simplest process imaginable. add accounts’ amazing posts to your pages, inside your blog posts, and on the sidebars. you can even embed a particular instagram feed to a specific post and make it not appear elsewhere on your page. enjoy instagram’s shortcode will appear in the editor, so you can truly use it wherever you want—in the beginning, somewhere in between, or at the bottom of a post or page. you are able to set the number of instagram posts you would like enjoy instagram to show. moreover, in the carousel view, there is an option to activate or disable navigation. the number of columns and rows is also customizable for you to find the ideal solution for your page. with enjoy instagram, you will enjoy the impact instagram can have on your website even more. more info / download intagrate lite when you use intagrate lite, you do not have to create your own api client. intagrate lite covers the major part of the technical work that makes it very newbie-friendly. in other words, anyone can use the plugin to merge instagram posts with his or her wordpress blog. it is a simple task that will improve your website’s appearance and grow your audience. avoid doing it manually, and let intagrate lite plugin take care of your posts. intagrate lite lets you customize post titles and body text and set the last images from your feed manually. you can link images to instagram, or you can have them saved to your wordpress media library. every picture you save to the media library can also be set as a featured photo. when setting intagrate lite up, you just log into your instagram to authorize the plugin and let it access your content. intagrate lite will never ask you for your username and password, which makes it safe and secure. just like the majority of other free wordpress instagram plugins in this collection, intagrate lite also comes with the pro version called lite. more info / download instagram widget by wpzoom want to have your outstanding instagram feed featured on your even prettier website? that should not even be a question. do it, test it, and see how well it performs for you with instagram widget by wpzoom. it is a wordpress widget that you can place anywhere you want on your website. in the demo, you will see how the one-, two-, and three-column versions look like, as well as the full width gallery, which is ideal for the footer section. what’s cool about instagram widget by wpzoom is that you can customize the design using css and make it genuinely adapt to your overall website design. with a simple widget like instagram widget by wpzoom, adding an extra feature to your page will be struggle-free. it displays your latest instagram posts, which will definitely add up to your site’s user experience. it is advisable to read the instructions first to get familiar with how to authorize your instagram profile. other than that, you will not have any issues bringing your well-liked insta feed to your fabulous wordpress blog. more info / download instagram posts to display an instagram feed on your website that fluently adapts to any screen size, you might need to consider instagram posts. it is a free instagram plugin for wordpress, which links any public instagram account with your website. by linking, i mean displaying its images from the social media sharing platform on your blog or page. it is a customizable tool, which fluently adjusts to mobile and tablet users. you do not need to have any coding nor design skills. setting up preferred colors, fonts, and even sizes is easy for the novice. one thing worth mentioning is the fact that instagram posts is fairly limited as a free tool. let’s face it; free plugins are free for a reason. some sport more features, while some are super basic. however, if you do not fancy a particular plugin, you can always move on to the second one. after all, these are all free wordpress instagram plugins, which you can test out one after the other until you find the ideal one. the installation and setup are quick and easy. even if you try out a few, it will take you very little time. give instagram posts a test run, and see if it is a fit for you. more info / download social media widget so far, it was all about presenting instagram posts on your websites with stunning galleries. however, i wanted to introduce something else in this collection of free wordpress instagram plugins. sure, the galleries come with the follow button, but what if you would like to avoid the insertion of an insta gallery but still have your website connected to it? that is when social media icons come very handy. it is all possible with the social media widget. it is a very simple and straightforward tool. place your social media links, like instagram, facebook, and twitter, on your website in a list view. your visitors can quickly pick the desired one and see what’s hot over there. of course, there is a modern icon ready for pretty much every social media platform. you can sport 3 icons or 10. social media widget will elegantly attach to your website design. it will be a smooth introduction, making it feel like the icons were there from the get go. more info / download thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. free pluginswordpress instagram plugins share this share tweet pin it share rokr rok is a professional content creator and an enthusiastic marketer who spends most of his day behind the screen, drinking coffee and listening to black metal. but he never misses a daily workout to get the blood flow going. he goes by the quote, "only a fool worries over what he can't control." related posts 8 top-of-the-line wordpress ssl plugins ssl or secure sockets layer is essential to secure servers in any online transaction between… top 16 popup plugins for wordpress to get more subscribers and improve conversion rates 2020 looking for wordpress popup plugins for your project? we have reviewed and compared the best… top 15 free customer service & support & chat plugins for wordpress 2020 it's no secret that customer service is a big part of a successful business. treating… 18 best free wordpress multilingual plugins for 2020 looking to translate your wordpress website into multiple languages? these wordpress translation plugins are here… 13 amazing paid wordpress advertising plugins 2020 your website is growing steadily, which means that the time has come to look into… top 30 seo plugins for wordpress 2020 a comprehensive list of the best seo wordpress plugins to supercharge your seo efforts and… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 16 best free wordpress affiliate plugins to crush it in 2020 next post: 16 best responsive paid wordpress gallery plugins 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×