skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue march 27, 2020 rokr plugins 0 comments to start making the most with your blog, the simplest way is to use one of free wordpress advertising plugins. it can be a struggle to monetize your website, but by picking a solid tool, you can have your first banner live in little to no time. besides, our collection of advertising plugins will not cost you a dime. that said, if you are unsure which to pick, test the waters with a few first and then choose accordingly. you may already be selling links, blog posts, and paid reviews, but why don’t you offer even more options to your potential advertisers? aside from adding banners to your website, you can also have complete control over your system. this means that you can view your site’s statistics and learn how well the ads are performing. count clicks and impressions, let banners be live for a certain period of time or appear only on specific sections of your website. along with manually adding banners, you can use other services like adsense. to avoid having an issue with adding the code, free wordpress advertising plugins will take care of all the technical parts. with a plugin, you can quite quickly build a fantastic marketing strategy for your website. place ads on your page where they will be the most lucrative, and have them optimized to a t. that is when the real success of your wordpress blog might start. you can begin working directly with businesses, avoiding third party ad platforms. in other words, stay away from paying any fees and earning cents for clicks. you can do much better than that. maybe you are not there yet, but at one point, you will start considering adding ads to your blog. while there are many premium ad management plugins available, it is safer to start with free wordpress advertising plugins. however, if you would like to jump in with both feet and bring your site’s advertising campaigns to the next level, check out our list of premium wordpress ad management plugins. adrotate banner manager adrotate banner manager will place ads on your website just about anywhere you want. it is a very straightforward plugin, which makes it really easy for the admin to manage numerous banners and groups. it shows statistics, allows you to schedule banners, and set the precise moment when they should stop showing. while you can use your own banners, adrotate banner manager also supports ad servers, like adsense, juiceads, and media.net. this also means that you can have a mix of self-served and third party ads on your page, spread around different sections. as far as statistics go, adrotate banner manager shows impressions and clicks for you to determine the clear winners and losers. you can scan groups and leave only the most successful ones running. even if you don’t have many technical skills, if you know how to use wordpress admin, you will surely know how to use adrotate banner manager. the style is similar, which means that, in some way, you are familiar with the plugin before you even start using it. take a look around, get the gist of it, and start running banners in no time. it supports all ad sizes and is compatible with plugins, such as contact form 7, woocommerce, and yoast seo, to name a few. more info / download wordpress ad widget the simplicity of wordpress ad widget is almost hilarious. it is very basic and extremely easy to use, yet it does the work for you. we all like simple things, don’t we? upon installation, a new widget appears, which you simply drag and drop to your sidebar or other locations. it is pretty straightforward regarding setting things up for your website. you drag the widget to the sidebar, upload an image, add a destination, and click the save button. then, you are done. all you need to do is refresh your website and enjoy the new banner. you can add as many as you would like and arrange them however you want. wordpress ad widget is an essential free wordpress advertising plugin that does not come with any advanced stuff. along with image ads, you can also include google ad tags and other ad codes to run third party banners. what about impressions, clicks, and other statistics? that’s not something that you can benefit from. if you need a quick beginner solution, wordpress ad widget is for you. however, if you are after a tool with many features, you should look through this list and find the one that meets your needs. more info / download advanced ads if you wish to add adverts to your website, advanced ads is the free wordpress advertising plugin that will do just that. it is both simple and powerful. advanced ads allows you to have as many banners on your website as you like. it is compatible with all ad sizes and networks. so, you do not have to question whether ads from a certain platform will work on your website. they simply will. even if your website is big and generates a ton of traffic, advanced ads will have you covered. with advanced ads, you can rotate ads, schedule and set when they expire, and display banners by content. to place ads inside posts, you do not have to do any coding; advanced ads does the magic for you. you, too, can easily sell ads on your website, but the selling ads add-on comes with a fee. additionally, you can display and hide ads by device, stick responsive banners to your website, and fight against adblocks. more info / download ultimate ads manager managing ads is a simple task with a proper tool that does the majority of the work and covers the technical part in its entirety. ultimate ads manager (uam) delivers fantastic results for your campaigns. it comes as a widget, or you can use a shortcode and display it just about anywhere you want on your website. some of the key features of uam are its ease of use, ad grouping, and automation. along with its own statistics, the plugin also supports google analytics for even more detailed information about the performance of your banners. as far as default stats go, the plugin counts clicks and views on an hourly, daily, weekly, and yearly basis. all-time statistics are also available for your further investigation and optimization. with ultimate ads manager, you can set a certain number of rules for when it shows banners and when it hides them. a random selection is possible as well. uam has plenty of features that allow you to run successful campaigns yourself. you can even categorize banners to allow the plugin to pick more intelligently. more info / download wp-insert when you start looking deeper and deeper into the wp-insert plugin, it will feel like you downloaded and installed a premium tool. it is free, but its features go above and beyond the expectations for a free plugin. wp-insert can do way more than just insert different adverts into your website. its power is inevitable. however, where do you even begin with such an amazing and straightforward item? at the beginning, that is for sure. wp-insert is an adsense-optimized plugin, but that is only the start of what it can do for you. regarding ad placement, you can insert banners wherever you want on your page or inside a blog post. with the midpoint detection algorithm, wp-insert allows you to add banners in the middle of a page or post effortlessly. as for the sidebar, drag and drop the widget, but for all other locations, use the shortcode. you can hide adverts for logged-in users and mobile browsers, restrict their appearance, and show them just on particular pages. you can make wp-insert work with google analytics, facebook pixel, custom css, or other codes. what is also important to know is that wp-insert does not slow down your page load speed. start inserting banner ads into your page, and see the revenue go uphill. more info / download adplugg wordpress ad plugin all the free wordpress advertising plugins you find in this collection are great for beginners, but some are fantastic for experienced users, too. an undemanding and efficient tool that falls somewhere in between the user levels is adplugg. before listing some of the features, it is good to know that adplugg works with the free adplugg.com service and only by getting yourself the free access code. without the latter, adplugg is useless. upon setting it up, you can manage your advertising system from your administrator. adding banners to your blog will be pain-free since there is no coding involved. yes, utter newbies can use the plugin, as well, and see great results with it. with the adplugg widget, you can use the drag-and-drop technique to ad banners anywhere on your website. unquestionably, it supports zones, which gives you more freedom with where you would like your ads to appear. rotate, schedule, and track your banners, look into analytics, and get familiar with the ads’ performance. one cool feature of adplugg is that it can rotate banners for you after a set time interval. it also allows you to group banners into different placements to have an even better control over them. more info / download ad inserter — wordpress ads management with ad inserter, you have a lot of freedom when it comes to monetizing your website. regarding ads, you can include all kinds from adsense and amazon native shopping ads to rotate banners and more. it can be javascript, css, html, php, and any other advertising code, and ad inserter will realize it for you. locate where you would like the banner to appear, and the plugin will display it at that exact spot. you can insert ads before or after your site’s content, before or after comments, and even in between comments. of course, these are just a few places where you can append advertisements. it is possible to add one after the excerpt, before the post, or randomly inside the article. however, you can do it manually with a shortcode or a widget. ad inserter detects ad blocking software and whether users are browsing on a desktop or a mobile. just like with other free wordpress advertising plugins, read the installation and quick start documentation first for a flawless integration. no need to be coming across any issues since you have it all written down. follow the steps, and before you know it, the first ads are already on your page. more info / download corner ad some call it the even corner peel. corner ad uses your website’s corners to display advertisement. it does not harm the user experience since it is very minimal and distraction-free. on the other hand, with the cool animation, you can easily attract guests and get them clicking. who does not like flipping through magazines after all? in this case, only part of the page peels and shows promo content underneath. once you get visitors to click on the animation, there is a greater chance that they will also follow the promotion. they are hooked already. you can use corner ad for all sorts of purposes—for pure advertising, announcements, and all the rest that needs to be further promoted. you might already be using banners on your website, but visitors are not really clicking them much. if so, test corner ad, and see how much it can do for you. or you just need to add extra announcement on your website, but avoid the traditional banner advertising. more info / download amazon product in a post plugin amazon product in a post plugin is a free wordpress advertising plugin that will help you monetize your blogs and websites. with the tool, you will have no trouble adding any amazon item to your pages and start earning affiliate commissions. to activate the plugin and start seeing items appear on your website, all you need is an amazon affiliate account and amazon product advertising api. bear in mind, without an approved amazon affiliate account, you cannot use this plugin. after you set things up, you can start benefiting from the fantastic features that amazon product in a post plugin brings to the table. you can now add only the products that best resonate with your website and skip all the rest. on top of that, you can set links to open in a new tab or window, adjust caching and customize the layout according to your taste. more info / download advanced floating content advanced floating content is a multi-purpose wordpress plugin which helps you stick different elements to the screen and make them never go away. this comes handy for header and footer notifications, sidebars, as well as advertisements. customizing and adjusting the default settings of advanced floating content is also easy as pie. in other words, anyone can use the plugin to its full potential and make good use of it. features include but are not limited to full control over content, devices and impressions, free support, shortcodes and more. if you were thinking about adding floating banner advertisements to your website or blog, advanced floating content is an all-in-one solution for you. you can play around with the features and test what works best for your audience. keep the ad present at all times and increase your conversion rate. more info / download adsense in-post ads while advertisements are most common in the left or right sidebar, footer or header, you can now take one extra step and add them to posts. with adsense in-post ads, you can bring adsense ads to where your users or readers are the most engaged. meaning, you can insert them into post or page content wherever you want with the convenient shortcode. all you need to do is to copy and paste your adsense code and you are ready to rock. from then on, adsense in-post ads automatically inserts ads for you. of course, you have complete control of where you would like your ads to appear. just rearrange the positioning of the shortcode and the location changes. it is just as easy as it sounds. get more people to click on your ads with adsense in-post ads free wordpress advertising plugin. more info / download woody ad snippets woody ad snippets is a versatile and all-around free wordpress advertising plugin that works for all sorts of intentions. meaning, you do not need to stick to the ads only with woody ad snippets. you can employ the tool for inserting other types of codes to your website without really needing to go to the back-end, editing the code. but today, we are here due to advertisements and monetization of your website or blog. with woody ad snippets, you can do that oh so easily. with woody ad snippets, you can add all sorts of ads to your page, like google adsense, amazon, yandex and others. woody ad snippets stores all the code snippets and duplicated texts in a library at the admin level of your website for easy access at all times. more info / download ads & adsense plugin if you are searching for a quick adsense fix, you came to the right place. ads & adsense plugin is a free wordpress advertising plugin that will save you time and energy. you can now import adsense ads to your website easily and quickly and start banking. keep in mind, this plugin also supports any code and is not strictly limited only to adsense. in other words, yes, you can add other advertisements to your blog or site with ads & adsense plugin, too. there are also plenty of features that you can profit from. for instance, you can limit the visibility per user role, post type or even device. you can also exclusively specify where you would like adsense to display or let ads & adsense plugin add the advertisement randomly anywhere within the post. you see, you have plenty of options to turn your page into a money machine. more info / download wp simple adsense insertion for everyone who is new to wordpress and not really tech-savvy, you need wp simple adsense insertion. this free wordpress advertising plugin gets the job done quickly, without really needing to undergo any advanced tasks. very newbie-friendly, if you will. while wp simple adsense insertion comes with some basic features, to be honest, those are more than enough to get the job done. you actually do not really need all the fancy stuff that some other plugins use, especially as a beginner. still, there are some good features that you can benefit from when using wp simple adsense insertion. you can quickly access the google adsense codes that you saved, inserting them to posts, pages and sidebar via a shortcode. you can also configure wp simple adsense insertion to do the post insertion automatically after, let’s say, every second paragraph. also, you can use the plugin to store other codes besides adsense. more info / download quick adsense do you solely rely on adsense? do you see the best results with google ads? if your current tool does not do the trick for you anymore, always breaking and causing issues, try quick adsense. it is the quickest way to insert adsense code into a blog post. note that you can actually use any ad code with quick adsense plugin. it can randomly place ads wherever you want in a post without you doing any hard tasks. with quick adsense, you can test a variety of banner sizes within your posts. you can have a square box at the top of the article and a rectangular one at the bottom. yes, exactly how you see it in this article. mimic this approach, and see how well it will perform for you. for returning guests, randomization will not bore them since something else will always be showing unless specific ads are following them across the web 24/7 due to retargeting. there is a set of default positioning that quick adsense comes with, but you can customize banner placement to anywhere within the post. you can display up to 10 ads on one page, and the same goes for sidebar widgets. that does not mean, though, that you should fill all the spots and overwhelm your users. more info / download meks easy ads widget if a plugin has word the “easy” in its name and the downloads are in tens of thousands, then it surely must be simple and easy to use. not only that, it probably meets many webmasters’ needs and generates great results for them. that is exactly what meks easy ads widget is all about. fairly basic but still with enough features to have your banner ads sorted and organized on your website. there are just enough features and options for you to start a lucrative campaign or a few. aside from meks easy ads widget being a widget that you can drag and drop to different locations on your website, it also performs other tricks for you. to begin with, you can create an unlimited number of ads inside one widget. we chatted about this already earlier, but i will mention it again. even if you can place numerous banners on your website with a plugin, that does not mean you should do it. place only a few or maybe even one to start with, and see how it does. only then, add the second and the third one. meks easy ads widget comes with a set of predefined ad sizes but feel free to use custom measurements. the free wordpress advertising plugin supports both image- and script-based ads, as well as randomized ad ordering. you see, although it is very elementary, you still get a nice portion of options. more info / download thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. advertisingwordpress free plugins share this share tweet pin it share rokr rok is a professional content creator and an enthusiastic marketer who spends most of his day behind the screen, drinking coffee and listening to black metal. but he never misses a daily workout to get the blood flow going. he goes by the quote, "only a fool worries over what he can't control." related posts 16 best free wordpress affiliate plugins to crush it in 2020 if you are coming up with solutions on how to monetize your website, these free… the best free wordpress font plugins to change fonts with ease 2020 a major and important part of any web design is typography. the type of fonts… how to build a decent website: top wordpress plugins 2020 a modern economy requires entrepreneurs to go online. as a matter of fact, all the… sell downloads with sellfy plugin for wordpress sellfy is a platform to sell digital content that's worth checking out. they made it… top 14 free shopping cart e-commerce plugins for wordpress after spending months of planning and weeks of preparation to set up a business, how… 20 best free wordpress plugins for multisites for 2020 many users run not one, but multiple sites. if you're using wordpress, you really do… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 13 amazing paid wordpress advertising plugins 2020 next post: awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×