barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up travel 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest rachel crocetti writer shares share tweet pin everyone dreams of bringing their four-legged family member on all of their trips with them, right? this dream isn’t always pawsible for jet-setting pawrents, but for humans with small pups, flying can be a reality. if you’re lucky enough to travel with your pooch, there are a few things you should keep in mind for your dog’s safety and well-being. here are a few of our best tips on flying with your pup in-cabin with you: 1. make sure your dog is the right size to fit under the seat comfortably. unfortunately, the size of your dog is important when deciding if you can bring him in-cabin with you. airlines have strict regulations when it comes to the size of pet carriers. they must be able to fit underneath the seat in front of you (therapy or service dogs are an exception). typically dogs around 15 pounds or less can fit comfortably in the mandated size of the airline-approved pet carrier. 2. make sure that your dog has the right temperament to fly. while i’d love to say that any dog can travel easily, it’s just not the case. high-stress dogs or dogs with high anxiety levels might not be the right choice to take with you on a plane. the reason for this? it’s simply not worth the stress for your poor pup. not to mention, some airlines require your pup to be well-trained, or quiet to fly. vocal dogs might not be the best choice for a small aircraft. if you think your dog would be particularly scarred by taking flight, do him a favor and keep all four paws on the ground. there are wonderful doggy resorts or dogsitters available to take great care of your pup while you hit the beach. 3. find a pet carrier that your dog is comfortable in. make sure to look up your airline’s requirements in terms of the size and type of carrier that you are allowed to bring your pet in. while each airline varies slightly, most require the carrier to be between 16 and 19 inches long or less, and about 10 inches tall. don’t try to make your pup fit in a carrier that is too small for him, it could stress him out even more. also, an important thing to note is that your dog’s carrier will now become your carry-on. that means that you are only allowed to bring one other personal item in the cabin. you will have to stow the other carry on to keep your dog by your feet, try to choose a carrier with extra pockets on the side for your book, magazines, etc. that you might want to keep handy. 4. pack all your dog’s necessities. while baggage often gets lost in translation, it’s important to make sure you have enough food, toys and treats to get your pup through a few days when you land. make sure to bring a non-spill water carrier, and maybe a bone to keep your furry friend occupied during the long flight. don’t be alarmed if your pup doesn’t touch his favorite rawhide that he usually devours. this could just be due to travel anxiety. similar to when humans get butterflies when they lift off! 5. call ahead to reserve a space for your dog. most airlines only allot a certain amount of dogs to fly in-cabin, so make sure to call way ahead of time to book your pup’s spot and make sure there is room for him. sometimes when flying with your pup you are allowed to board first – yes, dogs are v.i.p. – and you are usually given the middle seat, as there is more room. 6. be prepared to pay extra fees. bringing your best furrrend on your trip is definitely not cheap. depending on the airline, flying just one way with your dog can cost over $100. budget your trip and see if there is room to bring your pup on board with you, or if he should stay back for a special week with grandma and grandpa. 7. make sure that you have a health certificate for your dog from the vet. even if your airline doesn’t specifically call for one, go ahead and get a health certificate from your vet just in case. it doesn’t cost too much, and it’s always better to be safe then sorry. this certificate will show that your pup has had all his shots and vaccinations, and is perfectly a-ok to travel in-cabin with you and the rest of the passengers. 8. line your pup’s carrier with dryfur pad. no matter how potty-trained your pup is, accidents happen, especially in high-stress environments. line your dog’s carrier with dryfur which wicks away moisture to keep your pup comfortable. if you think he needs to pee, carry him into the restroom with you with a wee wee pad and see if he can go there. 9. on the day of the trip, take your dog for a long walk before leaving. ideally, this will leave your pup tired enough to take an in-flight nap! a tired dog is typically less antsy, and it will help to get some of his energy out before he is cooped up in his carrier for the duration of the day or night of traveling. 10. don’t feed your dog that morning and take away water bowl two hours before departure. this may seem harsh or cruel, but dogs really are fine without water for a few hours. this will help avoid accidents on the flight, and will keep your dog comfortable. his nerves might upset his stomach anyway. some humans like to avoid heavy meals the morning of flying, dogs are just the same. 11. during the flight gauge the water you give your dog. make sure to ride the fine line between avoiding dehydration and giving your pup so much to drink that he is crossing all four of his legs. some pet owners like to offer their dog an ice cube to play with during the flight. this helps to hydrate them and keep them occupied for a few minutes. simply ask your flight attendant for some extra ice cubes in a cup when they walk by with the beverage service. 12. be prepared to not allow your dog out in the airport, except when going through security. most airports do not allow dogs at all, unless they are in their pet carrier. however, things are different when you go through security. your dog will go through security with you and his carrier will go through the conveyor belt. some owners who have flown with their pups haven’t had a problem with letting their friend stretch his legs in the gate, but be pupared to be reprimanded by airport authority if it’s not allowed. 13. be prepared for the plane’s environmental conditions. some planes have floor air conditioners, in which case your pup might get cold. pack extra blankets to keep him warm and comfortable during the flight. another great idea is to line his carrier with one of your t-shirts. the familiar smell will keep your pup at ease while he can’t jump up into your lap. 14. if you have a layover, look for a “pet relief station.” airports are required to have a space for service dogs to use the bathroom. usually it is only a small patch of fake grass, but it’ll have to do. if your layover allows you enough time, make sure that your pup has the chance to go pee before hopping on the next plane. 15. only use sedatives as a last resort. sedatives should only be used for a nervous dog under the direction of a veterinarian. however, they aren’t always a great idea. sedatives and medication can have negative affects, like unsteadiness and breathing problems. these can make your dog more uncomfortable than he was before the pills. again, know your pup and be honest with yourself. if you think the experience will be too traumatizing for him. if you think it will, then find a responsible doggy nanny to give him his own four-legged vacation. 16. enjoy exploring new territory with your furry friend. when all is said and done, traveling with your pup can be totally worth it! not only will you have your whole family with you on vacation, but dogs are excellent companions for exploring new places. travel somewhere new and let your pooch be the lewis to your clark. featured image via old town manor featured image via weird wiener for more, check out these articles! 18 ridiculously easy travel hacks that will change how you travel with your pup cockapoo travel blogger shares her 24,000 mile adventure 9 tips for road tripping with your dog 6 highly-rated pet carriers for small dogs from amazon 10 gifts for the dog dad with the travel bug comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up rachel crocetti writer how do you prepare to bring a new dog home? "a grumble of pugs" - 18 perfect names to describe groups of dog breeds 15 things you should do with your dog before summer really ends 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go