wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » 16 tips for mastering the wordpress content editor 16 tips for mastering the wordpress content editor last updated on june 14th, 2019 by editorial staff 595 shares share tweet share pin majority of wordpress users spend most of their time using the content editor to write posts and create pages. wordpress comes with an intuitive gutenberg block editor that is very easy to use. however, as a power user, you can significantly increase your productivity by learning some of the lesser-known tricks. this would allow you to create highly engaging content in less time. in this article, we will share our expert-tips for mastering the wordpress content editor. these tips will teach you how to use the wordpress content editor like a pro. 1. learning the basic blocks blocks are the main building elements of the wordpress content editor, which is why it is sometimes referred to as the block editor. each element inside your content is made up of blocks. by default, wordpress comes with plenty of commonly used blocks such as paragraph, lists, images, galleries, and more. you can use these blocks to create beautiful content layouts. this makes it important to explore different blocks and learn how you can use them in your content. we will mention some of the blocks later in this article as well. 2. start using keyboard shortcuts it is inefficient to move the mouse just to make some text bold or add a link. the content editor comes with several useful keyboard shortcuts that helps you accomplish common formatting tasks without using the mouse. using keyboard shortcuts help you save time and make you a faster writer. check out our guide on the most time-saving keyboard shortcuts in wordpress. 3. single and double line spacing many beginner level users find it difficult to figure out how to create paragraphs and line breaks in wordpress. to add a new paragraph in the content editor, you simply need to press the enter key. wordpress will add a new paragraph with double line spacing. however if you only want a single line break, then you need to press shift + enter keys together. check out our guide on how to add single/double line spacing in wordpress. 4. rearranging the edit screen the content editor is basically a clean canvas with a top bar and a column on the right. this gives you a clean user interface to create your posts. the editor displays a toolbar on top of the block that you are editing. you can move the toolbar by clicking on the three-dot menu in the top right corner of the screen. you can also show and hide the settings column by clicking on the gear icon at the top. wordpress also makes it easy to switch to the spotlight mode which makes the block you are in more noticeable by dimming rest of the content. need more white space on the screen? switch to the fullscreen mode which gives you a clean canvas with just the toolbar at the top. 5. changing font size in wordpress visual editor we understand that typography plays a very important role in web content. you may want to use different font sizes to grab your audience’s attention or highlight different sections in a lengthy article. simply select the block where you want to change the font size, and you will see the font size option in the block settings on the right. 6. add headings into your articles headings play an important role in improving readability. this is why search engines like google also consider headings to be important for seo. using your focus keywords (words that users will use to search) in headings helps search engines understand the importance of those keywords. the content editor makes it easy to add headings to your articles. simply select a heading block and then select a heading size and text alignment from the block settings. you can also add a link to your heading, make it bold, or italicize it. 7. adding columns to your posts wordpress content editor comes with a built-in column block, which allows you to add content into columns. this makes it easy to give your text a magazine like look. simply select and add a columns block to your editor. you can select the number of columns you want to add from the block settings. each column will automatically contain a paragraph block. you can easily add any other blocks that you want inside each column. for example, blockquotes, images, paragraphs, and more. however, if you want to add an image next to some text, then you’d want to check the next tip. 8. adding image next to text in older versions of wordpress, it was quite challenging to add an image right next to some text with proper alignment. this problem was fixed with the media & text block. it allows you to add an image next to the text block. it automatically adjusts the width and spacing between the two blocks. you can make the block full-width and use the formatting options for the text block. 9. adding youtube videos in wordpress you can upload videos to your wordpress site. however, wordpress is not made to be used as a streaming platform and most wordpress hosting companies cannot serve large files adequately. to learn more about this, see our article about why you should never upload videos to your wordpress site. instead, we recommend uploading your videos to youtube or other stream sites and then embed them into your wordpress posts and pages. you can use the youtube block to simply paste the url of the video you want to add, and wordpress will automatically embed it for you. you can also paste the video url inside a paragraph or any text block, and wordpress will automatically convert it into the youtube block. 10. creating tables in wordpress posts the post editor also comes with a block to easily add tables into your wordpress posts and pages. simply add the table block and then select the number of columns and rows you want to add. don’t worry you would always be able to add more columns and rows later as needed. after that, you’ll see a plain table. you can add content to table cells and choose table colors / style from the block settings. the wordpress table block is good for basic tables, but it lacks many features. for example, you cannot select the header row, make columns sortable, highlight rows, and more. this is why we recommend using tablepress. it’s a free plugin that allows you to create beautiful tables and add them to your wordpress posts and pages. to learn more, see our guide on how to easily add tables in wordpress posts. 11. adding buttons in wordpress posts and pages buttons play an important role when you want to add a call to action into your wordpress posts or pages. the content editor comes with a basic button block that lets you quickly add a button into your content. the button comes with three styles: squared, rounded, and with a border. you can also select the background, text color and align the button to center, left, or right. 12. add cover images in wordpress posts you may have seen cover images used in the middle of an article on popular publications like the new york times. a cover image is simply an image placed in the middle of an article, sometimes with an overlaying text. the purpose of the cover image is to make your content more engaging. it also provides your users with a break from reading the text and look at an image to capture their attention. the content editor makes it easy to add cover images into your posts. simply add a cover image block and then upload the image you want to use. ideally, it should be a larger image file that looks good in the wide format. for more details, see our article on cover image vs featured image and how to use them on your blog. 13. change paragraph colors another neat trick that often goes unnoticed, is the ability to change the colors. most folks want to keep their text consistent throughout the article. however, occasionally using colors can help you redirect user attention and highlight important parts of an article. the content editor shows you color options in the right column, you can choose any colors you want. just make sure the background and text color combination you choose is easy to read. 14. add widgets into your posts widgets are quite similar to the blocks. they allow you to add web elements to your wordpress site without adding code. typically widgets are commonly used in sidebars or footer area of a website. however, you can also add some widgets to the content area such as contact forms. simply look for the widgets section under the add blocks button. from here, you can use the commonly used widgets in your posts and pages. 15. adding custom html in wordpress posts the content editor in wordpress is a fully visual wysiwyg editor. however you can still add html code if you need to. the easiest way to do this is by adding the custom html block to your post. after that, you can simply paste the html that you want to add. 16. get the word count and other stats for your posts when working on a lengthy article, you may want to see the quick outline of the article, how many words it has, and how everything is placed. the content editor toolbar has two buttons for that on the top. first, the info button which shows you the word count, paragraphs, blocks, and article outline based on headings you have used. right next to it is the block navigation button. it shows you all the blocks you have used in your article, and you can click on a block to directly jump to it. we hope this article helped you discover new tips for mastering the wordpress content editor. you may also want to see our guide on how to create an email newsletter and get more blog traffic. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 595 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 38 commentsleave a reply khalid says: feb 12, 2020 at 12:13 pm i cannot find the heading block in my editor. is it that i have inadvertently deleted it. how can i have it back. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 13, 2020 at 8:39 am your theme’s header is decided by your theme, not the post/page editor. for changing it you would normally go under appearance>customize. reply sanavi says: sep 17, 2019 at 1:30 am very helpful for beginners. bookmarking this article. i will surely implement these tips in my blog. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 17, 2019 at 10:38 am glad you found our article helpful reply michael torres says: aug 30, 2019 at 4:51 am very helpful for new blogger like me. basics are very important. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 30, 2019 at 9:33 am glad our article could be helpful reply bob says: jul 8, 2019 at 9:22 am good article, looks to be a great tool for beginners like me, are there any video tutorials as i like to be shown what to do? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 8, 2019 at 3:27 pm for that, you would want to take a look at our video section here: https://videos.wpbeginner.com/ reply abhijit bangal says: jul 8, 2019 at 7:48 am i was trying to use the new gallery plugin for testing how it’d work with new blocks, which are now more flexible than before. but i stumbled upon the columns thing and tried out a few combinations. i think, to an extent, i’ll use less of the gallery plugin and more of columns. of course, the columns cannot be everything that a gallery plugin can do/does. but to me, it’s helped me save a lot of time and energy. extremely helpful! thanks team! reply wpbeginner support says: jul 8, 2019 at 3:45 pm thanks for sharing how you’re using the block editor, while it won’t have all the features it can help those looking for a custom gallery setup reply kurt says: jun 30, 2019 at 4:17 am single line break…shift + enter…sweet. wish i had known about that before now. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 1, 2019 at 1:08 pm glad we could teach you something new and hope this trick helps with your content reply michael walther says: jun 17, 2019 at 1:47 am very good article about the gutenberg editor. however, i am still not convinced. for me, the gutenberg editor stays what it is – an excellent answer to a question that i did not ask. like a huge suv to drive my daughter to kindergarten. don’t get me wrong, shiny huge suvs are a fine thing, but i am just a wordpress author. i’ll stick with my trusty toyota (ie the ‘old’ wp editor via plugin) as long as i possibly can. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 17, 2019 at 12:39 pm understandable, as the block editor improves it should become more useful for new wordpress users and have tools that those who have used the classic editor want to use reply mohamed hassan says: jun 16, 2019 at 7:57 am thanks, an informative useful post. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 17, 2019 at 11:23 am you’re welcome, glad our post could be helpful reply valentin born says: nov 19, 2017 at 2:43 pm nice overview … but `by default, wordpress visual editor allows you to change the font size into paragraph text, headings, etc.` this is incorrect (and implies terrible advice)—don’t use “paragraph“, “heading“ etc. for font-sizes (… but for marking up paragraphs and headings)! while you offer a slightly better option in your mentioned article on how to change font sizes (namely, adding a font-sizes dialog, e.g. using tinymce advanced), only at the very bottom of that article do give the important advice: `note: if you want to change the font size of all paragraphs (i.e the entire post content), then do not use the tinymce advanced. rather, you would need to adjust the styling in your style.css file.` this should even be expanded upon: “if you ever want to change the font-size of a piece of content for purely stylistic purposes, create a class for that and add it to that element“ (perhaps with the help of a plugin)—otherwise you will manually have to crawl through every post and page, readjusting those manually set font-sizes, every time you change your theme’s base font-size. reply pawan singh says: jun 30, 2017 at 8:21 am hi admin, would you please tell all your readers which editor you use. i’m impressed with the styling of text. reply amanda says: apr 18, 2017 at 9:27 pm great article! i learned some very helpful things, and was reminded of other helpful things i’ve learned from you! thanks so much! reply bob diebel says: dec 14, 2016 at 10:18 am thanx much! much learned, much appreciated! reply kittkatt123 says: nov 23, 2016 at 12:14 am is there a keyboard shortcut to switch between the text editor and the visual editor? or do i have to click every time? reply rick teisan says: sep 25, 2016 at 5:54 pm i asked how to add a visual to the media library. i was directed to thispage. there isnothing about adding a visual to the library. sucks. 39 minutes just trying to add a photo to the library to put it in the blog post. make it easy !!!!!! reply wpbeginner support says: sep 25, 2016 at 11:24 pm hi rick, on the post edit screen you will see a button labeled ‘add media’ you can click on it and then upload your photo. you can also add a photo to your wordpress library by visiting media > add new page in your wordpress admin area. let us know if this solved your issue. reply hamid says: sep 8, 2016 at 8:04 am thanks for sharing such valuable tips. reply nadeem says: apr 10, 2016 at 6:33 am thanks so much for this easy and simple explanation of all the necessary suggestions for writing an article on wordpress. keep posting such amazing articles. reply rufus b says: dec 13, 2015 at 10:38 am one of the best news letters yet from you guys. the links to other recommended articles was super helpful. reply ahmed says: nov 30, 2015 at 6:00 pm great tips, thanks reply jagmohan singh negi says: aug 4, 2015 at 2:43 pm hi syed , its my first landing page of my secrch in google and i dont think i have to go to other sourses to find any information about wprdpress ,blog ,adsense etc. really nice post with complete information and presentaion is 10/9 in my view. reply wpbeginner staff says: aug 1, 2014 at 5:43 pm wordpress themes are responsible for handling all things related to the visual appearance of your content. having said that, since each wordpress theme is different, the visual editor can not automatically guess what styles to use. to solve this issue, it is a standard practice to add an editor stylesheet in wordpress themes. it seems like your theme does not have one. you can ask your theme developer for support. or you can create your own editor-style.css file and copy the rules from your theme’s main stylesheet. reply gary neal hansen says: jul 29, 2014 at 12:45 pm thanks for the great tips. at the beginning you say the visual editor is a wysiwyg environment — but i don’t see what i type in its proper format and font until i hit the “preview” button. is there a setting to have the editor function as true wysiwyg? reply chris finnegan says: jul 27, 2014 at 7:03 am excellent roundup, i’ll be using the keyboard shortcuts for headings from now on! reply wpbeginner staff says: jul 24, 2014 at 1:10 am you are confusing “paste as text” button with “paste from word” button which is no longer available since 3.9. reply dave porter says: jul 24, 2014 at 1:28 am yep, you are quite correct! reply derek wyatt says: jul 21, 2014 at 10:32 pm when switching from html to visual editor and vice versa, how do you keep the html information from stripping away? i haven’t noticed a pattern as to how this happens, it just springs up when i least want it to… as a safety measure, i just stick to the html editor because i don’t want to lose my formatting. unless someone knows a way to prevent this? reply dave porter says: jul 24, 2014 at 1:30 am hi derek, check out tiny mce advanced https://wordpress.org/plugins/tinymce-advanced/ and checkout the settings – there is an option to not strip out html like and reply john mauldin says: jul 21, 2014 at 11:47 am i must say that anyone who doesn’t know about all the wonderful information your site supplies is really missing out on a great opportunity. i love the fact that you present the information in direct, no b.s., format and written in easily understandable language most anyone can digest. keep up the great work! jm reply roger lill says: jul 21, 2014 at 11:46 am hi, thanks for the summary, that should save some time. reply dave porter says: jul 21, 2014 at 8:11 am isn’t #13 obsolete with wp 3.9 ? and ‘tinymce advanced’ is worth a mention dave reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.