skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 17 best three column wordpress themes for magazine, corporate and other beautiful and responsive websites 2020 17 best three column wordpress themes for magazine, corporate and other beautiful and responsive websites 2020 february 16, 2020 aigars theme collections 11 comments most news and magazine-style websites use 3-column wordpress themes because of its fluid and functional layout design. three-column wordpress themes are carefully crafted to provide a rock-solid and serviceable template for news and magazine blogs/websites. a lot of bloggers and website owners opt for 3-column themes because of its ability to place numerous sidebars on both sides of your website. this functionality is essential especially if you have a lot of indispensable sidebars to place on your website. the 3-column theme helps you avoid extending your content horizontally. it also allows you to create an asymmetrically balanced design that makes your website look pleasing and engaging. its layout structure allows you to monetize your website by providing more space for ads, subscription buttons and other important sidebar content that you need to put on view where visitors could easily see them. three-column themes can also be very practical if you have a lot of content to present on your website. here’s a collection of 3-column wordpress themes perfect for your news or magazine-style website. aside from the 3-column template, most of the themes included in this list come with the full-screen header image and other useful theme features and customization options that are necessary for building an engaging magazine-style website. webify out of the box, webify comes as a three-column wordpress theme with a demo which is best for online portfolios and resumes. however, webify is a powerful solution for all your website ideas, taking care even of the most challenging projects. with tons of index and internal samples, blocks, modules, headers and footers, webify gets things moving forward swiftly. you can even be an utter beginner at web development and still get a chance to shine online with webify. it’s the codeless experience which allows everyone to unleash their creative animals and craft the page of their dreams. some more features of webify include one-click installation, lightweight structure, seo optimization, live instagram feed, video support, mega menu, etc. the entire layout is also congruent with all mobile devices, retina screens, and web browsers. get your page rocking the online space with webify. more info / download demo jevelin jevelin is a modern and imaginative, speedy and responsive wordpress premium multi-purpose website theme. it’s a framework for the uncomplicated creation of functional websites within minutes. and requiring absolutely no coding! with jevelin, you get access to a wealth of demo websites with tons of stuff. these include sliders, menus, headers and footers, inner content pages and everything else you need to get your website going. you also get an awesome drag and drop page builder, so you can customize anything within your pages; from layouts and modules to elements, shortcodes and more. that’s why jevelin can so readily tackle a variety of projects. furthermore, jevelin is the way to get stunning results, and it is no wonder. hundreds of customization possibilities await you within a powerful admin panel. over 40 custom, in-house developed shortcodes come with the package for every occasion. it covers anything from product lightboxes to pricing plans and far beyond; not to mention 10 different portfolio layouts and 6 different blog layouts. or the over 40 element animation styles and a wealth of parallax visual effects to play with. jevelin is ready to take your website to the next level! more info / download demo gillion everyone who is in the process of getting himself or herself involved in the web development space, gillion is the tool for you. this powerful wordpress theme comes with a horde of features and predefined layouts which you can put into play right away. of course, without the need to have any prior experience with building pages, heck, you don’t even need to know how to code. gillion is no joke. there is a striking collection of seventeen demos predefined for you, all creative, minimal and sophisticated. you can easily find the look that best resonates with you out of the box. still, any additional tweaks and improvements are also possible, thanks to gillion’s complete customization features. additionally, gillion supports all types of blog posts and comes congruent with mobile devices, retina screens and web browsers. start spreading the word out with gillion today. more info / download demo uncode uncode has the right set of tools and features to satisfy a range of necessities across all fields of interest. this theme is a capable platform for the development of blogs and photography gallery websites, just as much as it shines as a commercial business website, an online store, or a riveting news blog. mobile and app developers are fond of uncode’s gorgeous ilightbox premium plugin, as well as its slider capabilities. it is powered by the layerslider and revolution slider, which, coupled with adaptive images technology, makes uncode surprisingly appealing to look at and wonderfully mobile friendly. uncode is built on a sharp and responsive modular bootstrap design, making it seamlessly flexible and perfectly rendered across all devices and browsers in high resolution, sharp, retina-ready colors. moreover, uncode includes six different menu styles for all kinds of websites and a ton of beautiful portfolio templates to show off your products or services. try uncode now, and never look back! more info / download demo the frog the frog comes with a simple, vibrant and welcoming that instantly attracts visitors. this 3-column theme also comes with an easy setup .xml file. so if you’re satisfied with our demo website, you can use them simply by importing the sample data to your website. the frog has a fully responsive layout that enables you to reach out to a wider range of audience. the masonry and grid layouts make your website look well organized and stylish. this theme also includes custom widgets for top articles in last 30 days, frequently used tags, posts by categories, recent posts, popular posts, feedburner subscribe button, latest reviews, random reviews, popular reviews, custom banner 300px and categories in 2 columns. what’s more? the frog features fly-out navigation for mobile and tablets, which create a nice three-lined menu button that users can click to bring a slide out menu. it offers several blog options and unlimited images for the gallery slider format with drag and drop functionality. moreover, it comes with live search functionality that provides people intuitive search results before they even finish their query. the frog also includes description for every category in your news website to make it easier for your visitors to find what they are looking for. additionally, this theme uses multi-column tag map and categories map, unlimited sidebars and includes .po & .mo files for easy translation. the frog is fully integrated with taqyeem ratings and reviews plugin, which is built for incorporating exquisite ratings and reviews to your posts, pages, and custom post types. more info / download demo multinews multinews is a beautiful and versatile 3-column wordpress theme with unlimited sidebars, perfect for building news and magazine-like websites. every single element in this theme is scalable and can adapt on any screen resolution. it has pixel-perfect graphic elements that make your website look really awesome. multinews comes with mega menu navigation, review system with user rating, and wordpress premium drag and drop visual composer page builder plugins. it also comes with an ajax live search and advanced news modules. moreover, multinews has an efficient advertising system that enables you to manage your advertisement on your wordpress website. this theme includes astounding features such as flipping magazine layout, woocommerce integration, beautiful weather page and fully compatible with bbpress and buddypress social wordpress plugins. more info / download demo ublog ublog is a clean and minimalist 3-column wordpress theme for bloggers. this theme is 100% responsive and retina ready, which makes your website outstanding when viewed on different kinds of mobile devices. this fresh and trendy theme is powered by advanced redux framework that includes clear and comprehensible customization options, which enables you to personalize your theme’s colors, fonts, and other theme customization with ease. ublog comes with 3 stunning header styles to help you pick the best one for your website. this theme also includes 8 blog layouts, 8 post formats, full width & boxed layout, sticky menu, featured posts with slider, facebook like box, custom css option, custom 404 page and other various custom widgets. more info / download demo buzzblog buzzblog is a smooth and clean personal wordpress blog theme. this theme is extremely responsive and works well on any type of mobile device. this sophisticated and stylish theme is suitable for any type of blog that necessitates a touch of femininity. it’s totally responsive and comes with loads of amazing theme features. its features include custom fonts, custom layouts, seo-friendly framework and more. buzzblog helps you make a buzz online in an elegant way. more info / download demo orys if you already know what you want, you sure did come to the right place. we bring you all sorts of different options and possibilities to get you going online in as little time as possible. orys is a three-column wordpress theme for photographers and creatives. with the two available samples, you have more than enough variations to create a unique and amazing outcome that will push your project to new heights. with orys, you can create a unique final design that will hook everyone seeing it. without a shadow of a doubt, orys is also entirely responsive, compatible with web browsers and fast loading. it is powered by the gutenberg builder and equipped with many custom blocks for you to style your online portfolio accordingly. extra specialties contain lazy load for images, portfolio editor, support for gifs and social sharing. more info / download demo avax avax is a three-column wordpress theme that takes creativity to a whole new degree. it’s a beautiful and very eye-catchy web design that will get you going in close to no time. with the six ready-made samples, you can start on the web like a pro, asap. seriously, you don’t even need to have any prior experience and still win the game. keep in mind, avax also comes with the wpbakery page builder, meaning, you will never need to code again. moreover, avax is for every creative individual, as well as agency, who is looking to bring his or her masterpieces in front of a global audience. market your talent the right way with the use of impressive avax and see the difference. of course, you can freely perform any type of customization tweaks and tailor the default look, so it matches your style precisely. more info / download demo jirmados whether you are an amateur or professional photographer, jirmados is the three-column wordpress theme that will help you with the creation of a killer web space. there are three homes predefined for your convenience. with jirmados, you can experience a swift and comfortably launch of an online portfolio for your thriving photo project. bear in mind, jirmados works with other creative intentions, too. moreover, you can also modify it however you want with the help from wpbakery page builder. jirmados includes slider revolution, contact form 7, mailchimp, sixteen custom shortcodes and sticky header. hover effects, back to top button, testimonials and blog sections are all the extras that you will find carefully integrated into the design. get your idea online with jirmados and start the journey to success like a champ. more info / download demo mediso mediso is a 3-in-1 fully responsive theme that works on all major browsers and screen resolutions. it comes with a very powerful yet easy-to-use theme customizer. this offers infinite customization options that allow you to take control of the logo image, fonts and colors as well as the fixed sidebar. mediso also comes with a powerful page builder that allows you to build unlimited pages in an instant. this theme includes a smooth parallax background. moreover, mediso offers unlimited color and font options, floating navigation, built-in mega menu, boxed/full width layout, unlimited sidebars, 4 portfolio styles and 4 blog styles. it also supports multiple post formats and woocommerce plugin. more info / download demo yolox yolox is a creative wordpress blog theme, primarily intended for business and startup topics. of course, if you fancy the layout, you can also employ it for something entirely different. the options are there, offering you all sorts of different approaches to web design. with yolox and the fact that there is no coding necessary, you can now bring into being a contemporary online journal which you can popularize without a hassle. if you are in a hurry, just stick to the default settings and you can get on the web swiftly. yolox comes with elementor page builder, instagram feed, mailchimp, slider revolution and gdpr compliance out of the box. moreover, yolox supports all sorts of different post types, like photo, video, quote, gallery and audio. all the content that you plan to publish will also stunningly appear on handheld and desktop devices. start your blogging journey like a pro with yolox. more info / download demo atert atert is a gorgeous three-column wordpress theme for bloggers and online journalists. regardless of the topic you are interested in, you can start sharing your story with atert. lifestyle, fashion, personal, food, travel and any other type of blogs are just around the corner. with the available professional and creative page layouts, atert ensures that everyone can and will get the most out of it. also, the web design is minimal and very appealing to the eye, emphasizing your content first and foremost. what’s more? atert is speed and seo-optimized, mobile-ready and cross-browser compatible. additionally, you can expand your blog with an ecommerce section and take your online project to an entirely new degree. with the versatility and flexibility of atert, there are a million possibilities! just do not limit yourself in any way, shape or form; atert is down for any challenge. more info / download demo gema you can now share your story with the entire world and grow a community with gema. while its web design is very simple and clean, it’s a perfect solution if you are on the hunt for something more. with nice attention to detail, gema sparks everyone’s curiosity and makes them interested in learning more about the goods you have to share. by the way, there is no limit when it comes to niches; gema works with all. in short, whether you would like to go super specific or make a general blog or online magazine, with gema, you can make them both effortlessly. gema has a completely responsive and flexible layout, making sure the performance stays topnotch across all devices. you can easily personalize the default layout of gema and make it follow your branding regulations to a t. to stand out from the masses, all you need is to get your hands on gema and start something fresh. more info / download demo music club music club is a unique and modern theme ideal for music, club, party, radio station, bands or even entertainment magazines. it has all the necessary features you will need to create a striking and engaging music events website. it also comes with a floating music player at the bottom of the page, a traditional boxed player, an event post type that comes with ticket button with 5 tickets status, a powerful page builder, 3 different event list style and goodlayers importer. this theme also includes unique promotional features such as revolution slider, music album with 2 different album list styles (+ carousel) and song download button + apple purchase button + amazon purchase button for each song. more info / download demo linx suitable for all tastes and styles, linx is here to provide you with awesomeness. this three-column wordpress theme is very flexible and adaptable, catering to fashion, food, travel, lifestyle, photography, magazine and virtually everything under the sun. linx includes jaw-dropping layout variations, color branding, post views and likes, contact form, parallax effect, gallery, pagination styles, instagram feed and more. it even offers an elegant web design that will surely be loved by everyone. what’s more? linx is compatible with all your mobile devices, desktop computers, and tablets, as well as web browsers. the latest version has gutenberg support, as well, for those who love keeping up with the trends. linx has an assortment of different demos, dark and light layouts, custom-made widgets and dynamic image resizing. whatever type of website you plan to craft with linx, the outcome will always be a genuine masterpiece. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. 3-columnbootstrapbusinesscorporateportfolio share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts bright vacation planning wordpress themes for your dream journey being curious creatures human beings get fascinated by the opportunity to travel the world. the… top 10 coworking and creative space wordpress themes to revamping your website into a conversion machine don’t revamp your coworking website thinking that people ‘will like it’. you’re wrong. your task… top popular wordpress radio station themes for any genre radio station 2020 we’ve heard it countless times—the internet is the future. we’ve heard it so long it’s… 10+ best knowledge base, wiki, faq & support ticket wordpress themes and plugins – 2020 businesses and organizations usually set up a knowledge base, wiki, or faq site to keep… 37 beautiful & responsive free photography wordpress themes for photographers and photo bloggers 2020 today we'll look into free photography wordpress themes for professional and hobby photographers. interest in… 20 most stunning full-screen wordpress themes in this collection, we have gathered the most stunning full-screen wordpress themes that would help… this post has 11 comments dan says: at thank you very much for this outstanding collection! it is very interesting and it will help me a lot in future. here you can find a lot of wordpress themes from the same topic that you could use in your future projects to satisfy your clients. reply aigars says: at dan, it is nice to see you again! i still can’t get it why your website url is not caught by akismet but i don’t think it will take too long. your comments will be moderated each and every single time, so feel free to post on all of our 150 articles and several thousands forum threads that are also moderated 🙂 reply sabir says: at great themes reply wima says: at hello aigars, i cannot submit any post on the travelify support forum can you tell me what is wrong. regards wima reply aigars says: at wima, don’t use any shady links when you are posting on forum and you should be fine. if you tried too many times you might be banned permanently by akismet but your messages will appear eventually but after manual review but it might take weeks. reply francis says: at aigars your themes are fine. please can i get a free theme customized for portfolio, articles, forum and blogging at the same time, because later i would check if i can buy reply aigars says: at francis, most of above listed themes does exactly that but all these are premium wordpress themes. if free themes is what you are after you might want to check this collection instead. let me know if you have some more specific requirements in mind and i will try to help you from there. reply themestudiodotnet says: at hello aigars how did you choose those themes for this collection? have you aready try those before? thanks reply aigars says: at i haven’t used all of those themes but a lot of theme i have therefore i can provide with some recommendations. sometimes it is easy to understand how theme will work based on description alone. for example if it uses wordpress customizer, slider revolution, visual composer, redux theme options and that sort of thing. there are loads of similarities between themes and i am more concentrating on differences that makes them special. reply glory themes says: at i like to advertise my wordpress theme in your site. what is the procedure. reply aigars says: at i don’t see any wordpress themes in your tf profile. are there any in the works? reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: top 22 dark wordpress themes to make your website look serious and professional 2020 next post: beautiful and responsive pinterest style wordpress themes for portfolio, business and blog sites 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×