skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 17 best wordpress membership plugins 2020 17 best wordpress membership plugins 2020 march 19, 2020 rokr plugins 4 comments whether you are just starting out or have already gained some traction, with wordpress membership plugins, you can monetize your page and get it lucrative. whether a blog with exclusive content, a course-oriented platform, or a subscription-based business, whatever your project is all about, with a proper plugin, you can turn it into a long-term profit-generating machine. what is especially beneficial about a membership program is that it is very predictable. sure, some clients come and go, but there are others who will stay loyal forever. depending on the program, you can expect payments every month, every quarter, or every year. bear in mind that if you are in for the quick money, a membership site is not the way to go. it would be better for you to launch a consulting website to get the right clients. getting back to the paid subscriptions, with our best collection of wordpress membership plugins, you can start planning long-term goals for your online project. due to the modern age, we are living in, these are super easy to use and implement into your site flawlessly. in other words, everyone can build a profitable membership wordpress site with relative ease. no need to hire someone to do it for you. instead, start taking action and have it set up asap. now, let’s look into the finest plugins for crafting membership programs of all kinds. memberpress when searching for the perfect membership plugin for your wordpress site, it might be that you are seeing memberpress mentioned quite a bit. it is definitely one of the most popular plugins out there, powering a ton of subscription-based sites. needless to say, it is very easy to install and almost too simple to use. to top it all off, it comes loaded with all the necessary features for a fully functional membership solution. in this day and age, almost every tool for building any type of site should be user-friendly. as a matter of fact, it should be created such that everyone can use it, even those with little or zero skills. once a tedious and expensive process, it is now as simple as 1, 2, 3. with memberpress, you will have complete control over what content members can access depending on their membership level. setting up pages, posts, categories, tags, you name it, and it will be done. when you get the plugin, it comes packed with a selection of price page themes, which you can use right off the bat. it guarantees that your pricing page will look stunning. after a customer purchases the desired membership package, he or she can upgrade (or cancel it) straight from your site. with the automatic billing, you almost do not have to do anything else other than enjoy the sales coming. since we could go on and on with the features, one more is worth pointing out, which is content dripping, or content that unlocks after a set period of time or expires in some of the cases. more info / download woocommerce memberships liaising a membership to your website is not at all a hard and tedious process anymore. with such plugins like woocommerce memberships, it is now too easy. in just a few steps, you will bring into being a membership site and enjoy your business growth. for any assistance along the way, make sure to check out the documentation, which will also help you with the advanced stuff. you will be impressed by how much you can do with one simple, yet complex, plugin integration to your wordpress site. with full control over your membership site sorted, you can now start brainstorming which options to go with. or you can go with the perfect match for your business now and add new options later. there is a ton of stuff you can do with woocommerce memberships. you can limit your content to members or make it drip over a particular time schedule. the options are endless. if you have an e-product or service, sell membership plans as its own product. moreover, a membership can just be a part of the product you already offer to your readers or clients. as an example, create a membership to give them access to premium content, like recipes, special how-to videos, or podcasts. you can also craft an invite-only member area where you pick members manually. start a purchasing club, reward members with exclusive discounts, allow members to have absolute control over their plan, and more. bear in mind that while woocommerce memberships works entirely fine on its own, it can also very well cooperate with woocommerce subscriptions. it gives you even more options over your membership plans you (plan to) set. there is truly nothing that woocommerce memberships does not allow you to do. in conclusion, jump in with both feet, and completely automatize your online business. more info / download restrict content pro using restrict content pro is very uncomplicated. restrict the permission of using your content with a powerful plugin and get paid on a membership basis. set the level that works best for you, and start planning a long-term business with recurring revenue. even if you were offering all the material for free up to this point, you can upgrade your website and give access to the high-end content only to the loyal users. there are a number of built-in integrations that come with restrict content pro at no extra cost. you can accept credit cards with stripe, 2checkout, or paypal and support multiple payment options, too. the more options you offer, the more likely you will gain a new member or 647 and grow your page above expectations. some additional features are data csv export, unlimited subscription packages, and reports on how your membership site performs. sending automatic welcome emails, receipts, and reminders will be a breeze. free comprehensive documentation is available, which explains everything in detail. as for the members, no matter the level of membership, each gets email support with a prompt reply. more info / download profilegrid profilegrid is a striking and straightforward to use wordpress membership plugin. it unlocks a whole new specter of possibilities for your web platform and helps you expand it with a membership area. whether you would like to build communities, offer your online shoppers to create profiles or start a paid membership business, with profilegrid, you can make it happen all and then some. also, profilegrid includes notifications, private messaging, sign-ups, blog submissions and oh so much more. bear in mind, first and foremost, profilegrid is a user profile builder, but the features and functions go way beyond that, including user groups. of course, you can employ the default settings of profilegrid out of the box, but you can also step things up and customize the experience to fit your project precisely. the dashboard area of profilegrid is very navigable and comfortable to use. indeed, you will never find yourself lost, quickly setting things up and bringing a new addition to your already outstanding website. there are also many front-end features, profile attributes, an option to restrict access to particular content and loads of other goodies at your disposal free of charge. more info / download membermouse can you imagine a turn-key membership platform that takes you only a few minutes to set up? this speedy setup also means that it is very friendly to all the novice membership site builders out there. to hype you up even more, for the first 14 days, you get a free trial. that is more than enough time for you to see how things work and start seeing some results. membermouse is a premium, powerful, flexible, and exceptionally easy-to-use wordpress membership plugin. it helps you run your whole online business efficiently without the need for you to be a coding wizard. it is an adaptable platform that you can quickly configure to meet your business. controlling different mundane duties will not be your job anymore, thanks to membermouse. a password protects the members’ area, and the content is available depending on the level of membership the customer has chosen. for each level, you can set different rules, which members can unlock with upgrades. to deliver content at various times, organize a delivery schedule and copy it to other membership plans if there is a need. even for affiliates, membermouse is supplied with all the must-haves and supports every affiliate platform. other goodies of membermouse are 1-click upsells, split testing prices, trial offers, the ability to customize the checkout, and solid management. with the latter, you have a bird’s-eye view over order history, engagement, pauses, cancellations, refunds, and all the rest. as far as email marketing and payment gateways go, membermouse integrates with all the most popular ones. it works with mailchimp, aweber, paypal, stripe, and many more. get ready to have your business sorted with one extensive membership plugin. more info / download wp-members wp-members is a free plugin that does not stay free for too long. soon, you would need to invest into paid extension to get the most out of it. this is one of those plugins that require some coding knowledge. you need to implement some of your skills into it to make it fully workable. it does not require any modifications to your theme of choice. it is needed only when you want to modify the look of it and restrict certain content. wp-members bans access to all content by default. site owners then decide which posts to unlock for the members. these default features can be adjusted according to your needs. certain posts can easily be set to be banned or unbanned when there is a need for it. meaning, you can overrule the default settings without making any other adjustments. with the wp-members admin panel, you can change the out-of-the-box registration fields and add custom ones with the practical drag-and-drop builder. the plugin also supports custom login forms, so you do not have to distance yourself from the branding. there is also no need to use the wordpress login page. create your own, and even use custom urls for it. these can be used to create lead generation landing pages, and you can link them with banners. more info / download membership 2 pro are you starting a membership-based wordpress site and need a solid solution for it? with membership 2 pro, you can create all sorts of programs for your members. you can protect your content for free and start paid membership. if you already run a successful blog or online magazine, upgrade it with the dripping premium material. for speeding things up, membership 2 pro comes with four membership types, which you can further customize: standard membership, guest membership, dripped content membership, and default membership. pick what suits your needs and have total control of who sees what content on your website. there are a whole bunch of options and add-ons available to improve and expand your membership. a very cool feature is the buddypress integration. the two combined allow you to create your very own social network, which, of course, can be a paid one. among plenty others, membership 2 pro is also loaded with features, such as membership coupons, invitation codes, trial period, and wpml compatibility, to name a few. paypal, authorize.net, stripe, and manual payments are options on how you can get paid (in 25 currencies). to support you with setting up your wordpress membership site, membership 2 pro comes with the smart setup wizard. it assists you with the configuration process and even includes the simulation mode. in short, make sure everything works flawlessly before you set things live. you can give membership 2 pro a 30-day-long test run before you decide whether or not it is the right option for you. more info / download ultimate learning pro if you are looking to create an online educational program, ultimate learning pro is one of the top wordpress membership plugins that you should consider. indeed, it is an all in one solution to help you craft the neatest and most sophisticated online courses without the need to know how to code. even if you lack designing skills, ultimate learning pro still gives you the opportunity to succeed with your fresh lms. the features of the tool are close to endless. right off the bat, ultimate learning pro hits you with thirty add-ons. moreover, it comes with features such as woocommerce compatibility, course reviews, content dripping, wishlist, badges, multiple instructors and simple monetization. with ultimate learning pro, you can design your own courses from scratch and deliver them to your knowledge-hungry students in a snap. you can link your programs to easy download digital plugin for students to access content right away. in brief, you can customize everything and fine-tune ultimate learning pro to your needs precisely. more info / download institute management pro when you are developing online courses, help yourself with different tools and web designs to complete the project speedily. one such amenity is institute management pro. this wordpress membership plugin is perfect for anything related to providing knowledge online. if you would like to manage and maintain courses and boost your potential through the roof, then institute management pro is very likely one of the best solutions for you. no need to be tech-savvy either, institute management pro is after all very newbie-friendly. with institute management pro, you can manage everything, courses, teachers, students, new registrations, inquiries, payments and more. it also includes comfortable admin and student dashboards, multiple payment gateways, notifications and receipt generator. to see what you can accomplish with institute management pro, you better take a peek at its live preview page and allow your jaw to drop. more info / download s2member if you are on a budget, the framework option of s2member is for you. it is free of charge and gives you a chance to test yourself in the online membership business game. it only supports paypal for payment and comes with four membership levels of which the drip feature is not included. you can upgrade to the pro version with a single-site license or the ultimate unlimited-site license. to monetize your existing site but avoid traditional advertising, you can start a membership program. while some of the content you release are for free, the others can be accessed only by paid members. that is one way to start making money with your site, and the s2member plugin is here to help. it supports all the popular payment options and allows you to store files locally or benefit from the amazon integration. powered with wordpress shortcodes, you can turn what was once complex and intimidating into a quick and easy solution. make the s2member plugin fully functional, and turn your page into a selling machine—almost like an atm if you will. equipped with complete documentation, video tutorials, and email support for the pros, s2member helps you build and maintain a membership site forever. start for free, and then dive all in with s2member’s own membership program. more info / download learndash shortly after you start using learndash, you will fall in love with it. it is all because of how easy it is to work with. you will manage your paid-subscription-based online project without a hitch. it is all organized and gives you total freedom with building the ideal solution for your business. start enjoying the recurring revenue, and focus on bringing in even more leads to scale things up. learndash comes perfect for building online courses and education programs. for your information, many universities are using the plugin for their online learning purposes. doesn’t this tell you more than enough? the learning material you always wanted to be released to the online space, but never for free, can now be done with learndash. not only can you now sell fantastic courses to the online audience, you can create them, too. it is all doable with the power of one ultimate membership plugin, compatible with all your wordpress sites. however, there is way more to it than just releasing the content and earning money off of it. you can reward students with certificates, badges and even points to fire them up. moreover, interact with users depending on the level of skill they achieved. by choosing learndash, you are always in charge of what is going on inside your membership platform. set the pricing or make it free, create groups, manage students’ progress, and communicate with members manually or automatically. there is a whole bunch more to it, which will do you and your course good. more info / download ultimate membership pro free and paid subscriptions are all sorted with ultimate membership pro. it is a premium tool dedicated to wordpress users who are in need of an all-in-one solution for their websites or online membership business. limit access to your entire site or just the most valuable content. you can secure your content on all sort of levels. protect pages, products, urls, and images, set redirection rules, and more. there are even different templates available and ready to use. no need to build something from scratch. put the predefined material to use, and improve on it. some of the key features of ultimate membership pro are various payment gateways, drip content, and numerous membership levels. sell subscription via woocommerce, pick one from nine integrated email marketing platforms, and restrict stuff by keywords. login is possible with seven of the most popular social networks for an even easier and quicker access to the members’ area. let them choose to sign up with facebook, twitter, instagram, google, and others. there is pretty much an unlimited amount of options ultimate membership pro treats you with. at some point, it might get even ridiculous, but ridiculous is a good thing, right? there is never too many options since you never know to what extent your website will grow. most importantly, for as long as the plugin you are using is scalable, you are safe. ultimate membership pro is extensible. more info / download privatecontent to give permission to access your most valuable content or all of it to only the most loyal users, privatecontent takes care of your needs. it turns your wordpress page into a multilevel membership platform with free and paid programs. effortlessly, you can set limited access to any section of your site and published content. the best part of it? no coding experience is required. everyone who is planning to launch such business can now do it in a matter of minutes and can achieve high levels of success with it. one thing is for sure; you are not limited with privatecontent in any way, shape, or form. when you run a business, which is based on free or paid memberships, you should have complete control over what users are doing when logged into your website. with privatecontent and google analytics integration, you can track every move they make. the collected data are used to improve your programs and for marketing purposes. upon creating an account, every user gets his or her private page. profile pages are private and allow users to see their memberships and even feature private comments. moreover, when signed in, the subscription also syncs with wordpress, which means it is possible to use woocommerce and wp comments with one login. as an icing on a cake, privatecontent takes care of form creation and skin builder, too. not only does it come with predefined demo material, but it also allows you to build a custom skin to fit your page look to the t. to further investigate this magnificent wordpress membership plugin, check out the live preview and see what is possible. in brief, you can do almost anything you would like with it. more info / download armember use the armember premium membership plugin for wordpress sites to engineer the finest subscription-based online projects. the only skill it requires is your finger skill. no coding and design experience is needed. it is only a matter of clicking and arranging things in the right order. armember is undemanding, convenient, yet at the same time stuffed with features. you can restrict your site content in a ton of different ways with armember. available are level-based, partial content restriction of any post, ip limitations, redirects, and other options. included are all types of membership configurations: one-time payments, free and paid trial periods, invite-only, and recurring payments. whenever a member wants to change a membership plan, he or she can upgrade and downgrade it easily. to make it all look appealing to the eye, armember comes with a built-in page builder. it allows you to craft custom forms, signup pages, forgotten passwords, and all the rest. do not distance yourself from the main design and make your membership program follow it, too. by the way, if you do not want to overcomplicate, there are predefined form templates at your service. speed things up, and create the desired forms in little to no time. a special module allows users to sign up with their social accounts, like facebook, twitter, and g+. for users, different profile templates are available with various badges of achievements. it makes it very user-friendly and fun to use. more info / download paid memberships pro paid memberships pro is another fantastic approach to the premium wordpress membership sites. this is a sophisticated tool with many options to achieve the full functionality of such sites. to get the gist of it, documentation and video installation assist you when setting things up for your page. to test the waters and see how everything works, you can start with the free plan. it has limited features but still gives you just enough options to get familiar with paid memberships pro. it is also great for everyone who is unsure whether or not paid memberships pro is the right plugin for them. after a while of testing it out, you can upgrade to the plus or go straight to the unlimited version. at the end of the day, it all falls to your business requirements. you can use paid memberships pro for all sorts of online projects. it’s for organizations with thousands upon thousands of members. e-learning, private communities, and discounts unlock only to members. it is also possible to set different levels of membership, from free and paid to subscriptions based on weekly, monthly, and yearly payments. paid memberships pro integrates perfectly with the most notable gateways, like stripe, paypal, authrize.net, and cybersource. there is also an option to add a new gateway if you do not see the one you would like to use on the list of available ones. as an alternative, you can process the membership checkout via woocommerce, too. speaking of integration, you can use all bunch of third-party tools with paid memberships pro, like mailchimp, kissmetrics, and affiliatewp. as an icing on a cake, there are more than 70 available plugins to help you add even more features to your membership sites. in conclusion, here is something for every taste. more info / download ultimate member ultimate member is sophisticated and easy to employ wordpress membership plugin that does not cost you a dime. offering users to create their profiles and expanding your website with a membership area happens in a little breeze with the powerful ultimate member. you do not need to be knowledgable about the process, heck, even if you are not a coder, you can still make it happen with the help from ultimate member. with the versatility of the plugin, you can use it for pretty much any membership page that you would like to build. some of the features of ultimate member contain front-end profiles, registration and login, custom forms, drag and drop builder, custom user roles, emails and conditional navigation menus, to name a few. to sum up, while the free version works fantastically well, you can enjoy yourself even more options with ultimate member pro. more info / download simple membership if you are interested in simplifying things when it comes to adding a membership layer to your website or blog, make it happen with simple membership. this wordpress membership plugin ensures a speedy creation for everyone who plans to offer free or premium memberships or a mixture. that said, with simple membership, you can set unlimited membership levels, like free, basic, professional, enterprise, etc. with this, you protect your website’s content, both pages, galleries and posts. simple membership works flawlessly with any wordpress theme out there. its smooth integration allows you to take your project to a new degree, unaware to existing users. in the massive bundle of features, you will find stuff like teaser content, partial protection, members import, front-end registration page, google recaptcha and manual approval. at one point, you will ask yourself, is simple membership really that simple? simple to use, yes, but as for the features, it’s pretty advanced. more info / download thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. wordpress plugins share this share tweet pin it share rokr rok is a professional content creator and an enthusiastic marketer who spends most of his day behind the screen, drinking coffee and listening to black metal. but he never misses a daily workout to get the blood flow going. he goes by the quote, "only a fool worries over what he can't control." related posts must have free wordpress plugins for your website in 2020 created a new website and now looking at what essential free wordpress plugins you need… top 23 jquery animation library and plugins 2020 where would the web be right now if it weren't for the immense technological breakthroughs… awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part ii this is part ii of the three-part series of articles on awesome woocommerce extensions that… 14 awesome drag-and-drop plugins for building wordpress pages how often have you felt the need to make improvements to your website? perhaps you… 16 must-have buddypress plugins for online communities 2020 wordpress serves as a platform for many different kinds of websites, including social networking sites.… 23 best premium & free wordpress menu plugins 2020 website design is largely about enhancing user experience. while it's important for a website to… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: top 15 free customer service & support & chat plugins for wordpress 2020 next post: top 14 image lossless compression plugins for speeding up wordpress we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×