start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising money smartcut advertising 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement read full profile share pin it tweet share email one might get excited about the idea of an early retirement, but to actually make it happen requires careful financial planning and some practical money skills. in this article, i will list down 17 practical money skills that will set you up on path for early retirement and financial independence. 1. make a written plan making a plan only in mind is not the best way to go about retirement planning. whether you believe it or not, you cannot simply tread on an unplanned road and expect to reach the right destination. it would just be akin to playing your luck rather than “planning”. you must remember that financial success is a choice. each financial decision that you make every single day will determine closer or farther you are going from your goal. invest time in writing down your financial goals so that they can materialize over time. remember that you are not simply aiming to jot down some words of motivation through this plan. instead, the aim is to define each and every aspect of your financial goals and give them a shape with exact written words and figures. this includes defining the timeline and quantum of money management to meet the financial goals. 2. ask yourself: did you invest in financial literacy? we slog hours to earn a living but when it comes to managing that money, we fair rather poorly. and it does happen because we are not financial literate. therefore the first and foremost thing one needs to do is to invest enough time and resources to become financially educated. becoming financially educated doesn’t mean getting a degree but becoming aware of the first principles of money like compounding, roi, npv, inflation. 3. income over lifestyle in the contemporary era, most people are running after showing off the illusion of being wealthy, instead of actually being wealthy. being wealthy is a long term goal, something which materializes only at the later stage of life. this clearly implies that you will have to forego your present day luxuries if you wish to realise financial success in the long run. spending money never made anyone rich. this is as simple as anything can ever get. this is also where the importance of written financial goals manifests itself. advertising choose your expenses wisely so that you are able to meet your lifestyle needs but limit your wants which are discretionary expenses in nature. 4. start right away compounding is that eight wonder of the wonder that stands at the base of the first step that you can possibly take towards financial success. added to the principal and rate of interest, the element of time can significantly impact how your investment grows. the earlier you start with your savings, the earlier you are going to be able to meet financial success and plan your early retirement. don’t wait out to become a financial genius or seek the advice of a financial guru. start as quickly as you can. starting early will also allow you to ample time to grow your savings rate. 5. wealth building on auto-pilot mode you cannot possibly expect yourself to be able to manage each and every thing on a daily basis, can you? you can only divert some part of your attention and resources towards your retirement goals but what about the present? this is where your auto pilot mode should be enabled. you need to take certain financial decisions which will not only accrue a number of assets in your hand but also make sure that they grow over a period of time; so that your life can sail on smoothly. the idea here is to allocate monthly income towards paying off money which builds equity assets for you in the long run. saving plans and investment clubs ensure that you are forced to invest and save your funds, whether you like it or not. so even if out of compulsion, you still manage to save your funds and build wealth in the process. remember 401(k), iras? 6. make your money hard to reach quite literally, just put your money somewhere so that you have to think twice before you reach out to get it back. imagine how different it’d be if you had cash lying in your wallet and if the same cash was stacked and shut closed behind the door of a locker. which one would be the easiest to reach out to? similarly, once your money is invested in some retirement plan or investment scheme, you will have to go through some policies and possibly some penalties as well, before you can lay your hands on that money. therefore, define your financial plans to make it hard for you to reach your own money, so that you can resist the temptation to spend it. advertising 7. don’t touch your social security it is called social security for a reason. stated simply, it is always easy to wash your hands in a running stream but not as easy when the water is stagnant. the same applies to your earnings as well. no matter how large or important your need is, touching your social security should always be a last resort option. social security is meant to be used after your retirement, meaning that you may at the least, meet your daily expenses with the amount of your social security. hence, the longer you wait out to claim your social security, the better for your retirement. plan your expenses so that you may not need to meet your daily expenses out of your social security at present. 8. focus on savings while this may sound a very basic and obvious money skill, it is very hard to implement in reality. the safest way to achieve this goal is to list down your average expenses for the month. you will be surprised at the quantum of your expenses when you undertake this exercise. having written them on paper, you will suddenly find the vision to analyse which expenses are wasteful and can be avoided. 9. develop sources of passive income it is always a good idea to develop multiple sources of income so that in case one dries up, others are still running and taking care of your financial upkeep. do you like to write? then get yourself freelancing content projects or if you have a spare space, put it on airbnb. the idea is to create as many possible avenues to generate income. and once this extra income is generated, care must be taken to save it and invest it rather than spend it. 10. plan your risks as the saying goes, the higher the risk the higher are the returns. this however, does not mean that you blatantly enter the rat race and seek higher risk investments without giving them a second thought. based on your financial health, the risk that any person can afford to take is different. hence, you need to evaluate your financial health and your ability to bear a loss, more importantly than the idea of earning a profit. this will perhaps give you a clear image of the risk that you can afford to take in the long run. advertising do remember when you are planning to retire early, capital preservation should be the top goal. do access your risk profile first before investing in any financial instrument. for example, cryptocurrency might be a suitable instrument to invest for those who have high risk appetite; whereas for those who are extremely risk averse, even equity seem to be a risky proposition. 11. plan your taxes while you juggle between your earnings, expenses and savings, there is one factor which is completely out of your hand but also stands as a compulsion, which is taxes. as a resident of the country, you must be well aware about the taxation laws and how your earnings are taxed in one way or the other. this is where you need to use the scope of tax planning and try to save as many funds as you can. tax planning will also become relevant after retirement, when you will have to be very careful about your investments, which are also liable to be taxed. 12. stay healthy you might be wondering how health can take a centre stage when we are discussing about money skills. however, one needs to be healthy to enjoy the benefits of early retirement. besides, being healthy also ensures that out of pocket expenses (not covered by health insurance) on health care are at the minimum. needless to say that you must have a decent health insurance. 13. always prefer used cars it’s a well known fact that cars usually lose around 20-30% of the value (depending on the make and the model) within first couple of years due to depreciation. it is a wise decision to always hunt for a used car since it has already taken the depreciation hit. besides, car is a liability that requires money for its annual maintenance and loses value with time. if you are planning to retire early, you would want to invest in building assets rather than buying a liability. 14. plan your mortgage while the jury is still out on whether to rent a house or buy one, if at all you decide to buy one, make sure that you plan your mortgages carefully. taking a 30 year mortgage on your house will tie you up for the entire life. and with so many vagaries in professional life, chances are that you would find it difficult to maintain the financial discipline that is required for early retirement. if you are planning to buy a house, try to repay the entire mortgage in 10-15 years. start by taking a 30 years mortgage and try to increase your monthly payments every year. advertising for example, if you are paying $2000 per month this year, try to do $2200 next year. and since this payment will be on auto-pilot, you will adjust to the new normal with time. 15. vacation in off season if you are one of those who like to travel, then this one is for you. you could save quite a fortune by vacationing in the off season. not only air tickets will be cheaper but also the hotels. and if you are looking for a short sojourn, then try to do it during weekdays rather than weekends. these savings, over a period of time, would accumulate to become a sizeable portion of your entire savings bank. 16. apply the 5% rule this is not a proverbial rule but is practical and very effective. stated simply, this means cutting down your expenses (by 5%) from top 3 expense categories every year. to implement this skill, first of all list down your 3 top expense categories. then break down expenses within those categories. this will show areas of improvement where money can be saved. now to actually put savings into action, try to develop good habits that automatically do that for you. for example, if your monthly expense on dining out is substantial and makes to the list, then try to find out reasons not to go outside; probably pack your lunch to office, or make a strict rule to eat only 2 times (say) a month. a goal is pretty easy to achieve if it can be broken down into habits. therefore cultivate good savings habits. 17. track the progress last but not the least, track the progress: progress of savings, progress of investments and progress of how close you have reached to your goal. tracking the progress provides positive feedback to the tough financial discipline life you have been living. and that in turns provides more motivation to stay the course. it also helps to benchmark the situation and take corrective measures if required. the bottom line planning for early retirement is not that hard. all it requires is financial discipline (over long period of time); discipline to save as much as possible and invest wisely. the path to (successful) early retirement lies not in the maths behind it (maths is easy) but cultivating good habits and the right mindset. so start now! featured photo credit: unsplash via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated advertising advertising more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life how to stay consistent and realize your dreams advertising advertising money smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to set financial goals and actually meet them ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement read full profile share pin it tweet share email finances can push anyone to the point of extreme anxiety and worry. easier said than done, planning finances is not an egg meant for everyone’s basket. and that’s why most of us are often living pay check to pay check. but did anyone tell you that it is actually not a tough task to meet your financial goals? in this article, we will explore ways on how to set financial goals and then actually meet them with ease. table of contents 5 steps to set financial goals 11 ways to achieve your financial goals ensuring healthy savings making smart investments the bottom line more tips about personal finance management 5 steps to set financial goals though setting financial goals might seem to be a daunting task but if one has the will and clarity of thought, it is rather easy. try using these steps: 1. be clear about the objectives any goal (let alone financial) without a clear objective is nothing more than a pipe dream. and this couldn’t be more true for financial matters. it is often said that savings is nothing but deferred consumption. therefore if you are saving today, then you should be crystal clear about what it is for. it could be anything like kid’s education, retirement, marriage, that dream vacation, fancy car etc. once the objective is clear, put a monetary value to that objective and the time frame. the important point at this step of goal setting is to list all the objectives, however small they may be, that you foresee in the future and put a value to it. 2. keep them realistic it’s good to be an optimistic person but being a pollyanna is not desirable. similarly, while it might be a good thing to keep your financial goals a bit aggressive, going out of the line will definitely hurt your chances of achieving them. it’s important that you keep your goals realistic in nature for it will help you stay the course and keep you motivated throughout the journey. 3. account for inflation ronald reagan once said – “inflation is as violent as a mugger, as frightening as an armed robber and as deadly as a hitman”. and this quote sums up the best what inflation could do your financial goals. therefore account for inflation whenever you are putting a monetary value to a financial objective that is far away in the future. for example, if one of your financial goal is your son’s college education, which is 15 years hence, then inflation would increase the monetary burden by more than 50% if inflation is mere 3%. so always account for inflation. 4. short term vs long term just like every calorie is not the same, the approach towards achieving every financial goal will not be the same. it is important to bifurcate goals in short term and long term. as a rule of thumb, any financial goal, which is due in next 3 years should be termed as short term goal. any longer duration goals are to be classified as long term goals. this bifurcation of goals into short term vs long term will help in choosing the right investment instrument to achieve them. more on this later when we talk about how to achieve financial goals. advertising 5. to each to his own the journey of setting financial goals is an individualistic affair i.e. your goals are your own goals and are determined by your want to achieve them. a lot of times we get on the bandwagon of goal setting only to realize later on that it was not meant for us. it is important that your goals are actually your goals and not inspired by someone else. take a hard look at this step at all the goals you’ve set for after this step, you will be on the way to achieve them. by now, you would be ready with your financial goals, now it’s time to go all out and achieve them. 11 ways to achieve your financial goals whenever we talk about chasing any financial goal, it is usually a 2 step process – ensuring healthy savings making smart investments you will need to save enough; and invest those savings wisely so that they grow over a period of time to help you achieve goals. so let’s get down to ensuring healthy savings. ensuring healthy savings self realization is the best form of realisation and unless you decide what your current financial position is, you aren’t heading anywhere. this is the focal point from where you start your journey of achieving financial goals. 1. track expenses the first and the foremost thing to be done is to track your monthly expenses. use any of the expense tracking mobile apps to record your expenses. once you start doing it diligently, you would be surprised to see how small expenses add up to a sizeable amount. also categorize those expenses into different bucket so that you know which bucket is eating the most of your pay check. this record keeping will pave the way for cutting down on un-wanted expenses and pump up your savings rate. 2. pay yourself first generally, savings come after all the expenses have been taken care of. this is a classical mistake which almost everyone of us do. we pay ourselves last! ideally, this should be planned upside down. we should be paying ourselves first and then to the world i.e. we should be taking out the planned saving amount first and then manage all the expenses from the rest. the best way to actually implement is to put the savings on automatic mode i.e. money flowing automatically into different financial instruments (for example – mutual funds, retirement corpus etc) every month. taking the automatic route will make us lose control of our money and hence will compel us to manage in what’s left with us thereby increasing the savings rate. 3. make a plan and vow to stick with it budgeting is the best to get around the uncertainty that financial plans always pose. decide in advance how spending has to be made. advertising nowadays, several money management apps and wallets can help you do this automatically. it’s easy and who knows, you may just end up doing what people fail to do. at first, you may not be able to stick to your plans completely but don’t let that become a reason why you stop budgeting entirely. make use of technology solutions you like. explore options and alternatives that let you make use of the available wallet options and choose the one that suits you the most. in time, you will get accustomed to making use of these solutions. you will find that they make it simpler for you to follow your plan, which would have been difficult otherwise. 4. rise again even if you fall let’s be realistic. it’s not like the world will come to an end if you made one mistake. this isn’t called leniency but discipline. if you fail to meet your budget for a month, don’t give up the entire effort just like that. instead, start again. remember that flexible plans are the most realistic plans. so go forward and try to follow your financial goals as planned but if for some reason, the plan gets out of hand for you, do not give up on it just yet. this has a lot to do with your psychology rather than any material commitment. all you have to do is to stay on the road and vow to stay on it, no matter how much you fall down. 5. make savings a habit and not a goal in the book nudge, authors richard thaler and cass sunstein advocate that in order to achieve any goal, it should be broken down into habits since habits are more intuitive for people to adapt to. make savings a habit rather than a goal. while it might seem to be counter intuitive to many but there are some deft ways of doing it. for example: always eat out (if at all) during weekdays rather than weekends. usually weekends are expensive. make it a habit and you would in turn be saving a great deal. if you are travelling buff, try to travel during off season. your outlay will be much less. if you go out for shopping, always look out for coupons and see where can you get the best deal. so the key point is to imbibe the action that results in savings rather than on the savings itself, which is the outcome. focusing on the outcome will bring out the feeling of sacrifice which will be harder to sustain over a period of time. advertising 6. talk about it sticking to the saving schedule (to achieve financial goals) is not an easy journey. there will be many distractions from those who are not aligned with your mission. and it would be rather easy to lose the grip over your discipline. therefore in order to stay the course, it is advisable that you keep yourself surrounded with people who are also on the same bandwagon. daily discussions with them will keep you motivated to move forward. 7. maintain a journal for some people, writing helps a great deal in making sure that they achieve what they plan. so if you are one of them, maintain a proper journal, where you write down your goals and also jot down the extent to which you managed to meet them. this will help you in reviewing how far you have come and which goals you have met. use this journal to write down all essential points such as your short term, mid term and long term goals, your current sources of income, your regular expenses which you are aware of and any committed expenses which are of recurring nature. when you have a written commitment on paper, you are going to feel more energised to follow the plan and stick to it. moreover, it is going to be a lot more easier for you to follow you and track your progress. at this point, you should be ready with your financial goals and would be doing brilliantly with savings; now it’s time to talk about the big daddy – investments. making smart investments savings by themselves don’t take anyone too far. however savings when invested wisely can do wonders and we are at that stage where we will talk about making smart investments. 8. consult a financial advisor investments doesn’t come naturally to most of us therefore rather than dabbling with it ourselves, it is wise to consult a financial advisor. talk to him/her about your financial goals and savings and then seek advice for the best investment instruments to achieve your goals. 9. choose your investment instrument wisely though your financial advisor will suggest the best investment instruments, it doesn’t hurt to know a bit about them. just like “no one is born a criminal”, no investment instrument is bad or good. it is the application of that instrument that makes all the difference. do you remember we talked about bifurcating financial goals in short term and long term? it is here where that classification will help. advertising so as a general rule, for all your short term financial goals, choose an investment instrument that has debt nature for example fixed deposits, debt mutual funds etc. the reason for going for debt instruments is that chances of capital loss is less as compared to equity instruments. 10. compounding is the eighth wonder einstein once remarked about compounding, compound interest is the eighth wonder of the world. he who understands it, earns it… he who doesn’t… pays it. so make friends with this wonder kid. and sooner you become friends with it, quicker you will reach closer to your financial goals. start investing early so that time is on your side to help you bear the fruits of compounding. 11. measure, measure, measure all of us do good when it comes to earning more per month but fail miserably when it comes to measuring the investments; taking stock of how our investments are doing. if there is one single step where everything (so far) can go wrong, it is at this step – measuring the progress. if we don’t measure the progress timely, then we would be shooting in the dark. we wouldn’t know if our saving rate is appropriate or not; whether financial advisor is doing a decent job; whether we are moving closer to our target or not. do measure everything. if you can’t measure it all yourself, ask your financial advisor to do it for you. but do it! the bottom line this completes the list of tips for you to set financial goals and actually achieve them with not so great difficulty. as you can see, all it requires is discipline. but guess that’s the most difficult part! more tips about personal finance management 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings how to improve credit score quickly with these 10 tactics that work the best ways to save money even impulsive spenders can get behind top 10 recommendations on money management apps featured photo credit: rawpixel via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings the best ways to save money even impulsive spenders can get behind how to improve credit score quickly with these 10 tactics that work advertising advertising more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next top 10 recommendations on money management apps how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.