content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search 17 problems we solve we can help gaining or keeping customers with content marketing, social media, digital, and customer experience is harder than ever, for two reasons. first, ever-changing technology renders obsolete most plans and strategies that are older than just a few months. second, the expectations of customers and prospects are ever-escalating. what was fast, useful, or empathetic two years ago is simply commonplace today. at convince & convert, we use our combined decades of experience working with the most iconic brands in the world to help you solve your marketing and customer experience problems. while we customize every scope of work to meet the unique needs of each partner, much of our work focused on addressing issues like these: you continue to invest in content but are not seeing financial return. your social media program has stopped yielding significant engagement and other desirable customer/prospect behaviors. you know you need to balance organic and paid social media, but don’t know what ratio and budgets are optimal. as content shifts to audio/video, you are uncertain what kind of resources or org chart you need to execute successfully. the success metrics used to measure content/social/digital don’t sufficiently reflect actual business outcomes. you believe existing marketing plans are too broad and vague, but aren’t sure how to boost relevancy by targeting specific customer needs and personas. customer churn is higher than desirable, and you’re uncertain which customer experience interactions to address to slow defections. customers expect to interact instantly with your organization everywhere online, and you’re not sure how/where/when to resource, monitor, and answer. you’re uncertain whether/how to launch an initiative in messaging/conversational marketing, chatbots, and/or voice-activated content. results of your email marketing continue to slide. why? you know your digital program needs a widespread overhaul, but what should the priorities and dependencies be? competitors are outflanking you in digital and/or customer experience. should you match what they are doing? how? your customer experience is not talkable or differentiated enough to produce proactive word of mouth. how can this be fixed? you want to boost awareness and category thought leadership by producing original research. how? you want to level up your team on social/content/digital and need a workshop to do so. you believe episodic, binge-worthy content will boost engagement, but aren’t sure what your “shows” should be, or how to produce them. influencers may be an effective method of increasing reach and elevating trust and relevancy, but you’re not certain how to identify and “manage” the right influencers in your category. our clients and case studies speak for themselves. can we help you? speak to a convince & convert strategist let's schedule a call to chat about your marketing goals and challenges. a convince & convert strategist will get back to you within 1 business day (or sooner) to schedule your call. we can't wait to chat with you! how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept