barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up discover 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest emily wang writer shares share tweet pin as a furry pup lover, there is no doubt in my mind that having a dog brings many upsides to my life. i mean, how can i not live happily waking up to a smiley face and wagging tail? for those of you who do not yet have a furry friend, or who are planning on adding one to your family, you’ll be glad to hear that there are scientifically proven benefits that dogs bring to each of our lives! so if you’re looking for reasons to get a dog, here’s 17! table of contents 1. dogs increase your mood dramatically! 2. having a dog may help reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. 3. step aside, kitties! dogs protect children from skin conditions and allergies. 4. having a dog improves your physical wellbeing and encourages a healthy fitness routine. 5. humans with dogs recover more quickly from illnesses. 6. dogs make excellent service and alert animals. 7. children with dogs in their household miss less school. 8. but wait, there’s more (for your kids)! 9. simply put, they are a human’s best friend. 10. they will go to great lengths–2,800 miles to be exact–to find their humans. 11. they make excellent watchdogs. 12. dogs help increase social interactions. 13. there’s never a dull or boring moment. 14. dogs may save your life. 15. stressed at work? let me prescribe you one adorable puppy. 16. having a dog makes you more awesome! 17. need i say more? 1. dogs increase your mood dramatically! spending just 15-30 minutes with your dog can help you feel more calm and relaxed, reducing stress and increasing happiness. playing with your pup increases your brain’s levels of dopamine and serotonin, both of which are neurotransmitters associated with pleasure and tranquility. so the next time you’re feeling down, grab the newest toy from your barkbox and spend some time with your pup! that wagging tail will be sure to put a smile on your face. 2. having a dog may help reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. studies show that talking to and petting your pooches are often accompanied by lower blood pressure, and that means a lowered risk for a myriad of different illnesses. 3. step aside, kitties! dogs protect children from skin conditions and allergies. children who grow up with dogs have a lower risk of developing eczema than those who have cats or no dogs at all. yes, it’s true! in addition, children also develop fewer pet allergies if they grow up with a dog. 4. having a dog improves your physical wellbeing and encourages a healthy fitness routine. of course! your dog requires daily exercise, and so do you! dog owners carry the responsibility of playing with and working their dogs, so it only makes sense that dog people tend to be more active. 5. humans with dogs recover more quickly from illnesses. dog owners have a much higher rate of recovery from being sick than non-dog owners. in fact, humans with pooches who suffered from heart attacks were twice as likely to fully recover than those without! 6. dogs make excellent service and alert animals. canines make excellent service companions when trained properly for people with disabilities. they can be trained to bring medication, alleviate a stressful situation for their human, and even detect an approaching epileptic seizure. 7. children with dogs in their household miss less school. yes, it’s true. we all know that children absolutely adore pups, but research has shown that children from dog-owning families have better school attendance due to better overall health and less sickness from having a pup at home. 8. but wait, there’s more (for your kids)! having dogs has actually been shown to improve a child’s self-esteem, and makes issues that cause stress easier to handle. 9. simply put, they are a human’s best friend. because of their heightened sense of smell, sight, and hearing, dogs are extremely intelligent creatures with a loyalty to their humans that is unexpectedly strong. those with dogs will know–your pups can sense human body language, emotions, and feelings, and this paves the way for an unbreakable bond. 10. they will go to great lengths–2,800 miles to be exact–to find their humans. have you guys heard the story of bobbie the wonderdog? well, he traveled a whopping 2,800 miles to return to his family after accidentally being abandoned across the country. 11. they make excellent watchdogs. from puppyhood, dogs innately learn to watch and be aware of anything rotten coming your way. potential burglars are put off by a barking or watching dog in the window. rottweilers, german shepherds, and scottish terriers are among the top watchdog breeds, but even my fluffy american eskimo dog is known to be great at alerting families of anything odd or suspicious! 12. dogs help increase social interactions. yes, not only do dogs need care and playtime with their humans, but they need time to socialize with other pups too! this means that their humans will have a chance to socialize while they oversee the puppy playdates. those of you with pups know that even going on a walk in the neighborhood can bring many friends and start many conversations! 13. there’s never a dull or boring moment. have you ever found yourself sitting at home, wondering what to do today? there are so many things you can do with your dog, whether that be taking a trip to the park, training, playing, running, or just watching them chew a toy. it’s all fun, for both of you. 14. dogs may save your life. our lovely canine friends seem to be able to detect the smell of cancer in human bodies. there have been stories of pups who continued to lick and sniff at moles or lumps on their human’s bodies, who eventually found out that those skin conditions were cancerous. in fact, since humans made this discovery, dogs have even been trained in just 3 hours to detect cancer! 15. stressed at work? let me prescribe you one adorable puppy. notice the increasing trend in workplaces allowing dogs to come to work with their humans? there’s a reason for that! studies have shown that people who take their dogs to work have lower stress levels during the workday. 16. having a dog makes you more awesome! the responsibility, patience, selflessness, and commitment that comes with having a dog makes us stronger, all-around better people. the dog-human relationship is a two-way street. we’ve heard the phrase, “who rescued who?” and it’s certainly something to consider. dogs have proven that they improve our physical and mental health, as well as the health of those around us. 17. need i say more? featured image via @kongkwan.chihuahua oxytocin flood those magical, euphoric feelings sweeping over you while bonding with your dog are not just in your imagination. locking eyes with your furry friend and gazing lovingly into that adorable face triggers the release of oxytocin, the “feel good” drug into your system. addicting, yes, but harmful? no! this calm and happy high is 100% natural, and available to you right now at your neighborhood shelter or animal rescue. for more, check out these articles! the science behind why dogs are man’s best friend 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans what dog breeds are the best watch dogs? what’s the difference between emotional support, therapy, and service dogs? why dogs make the best roomies a human could ask for comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up emily wang writer what are must-have dog products? how do i maintain my dog's coat? 15 dogs who are going all out for national hot dog day 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go