home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 17 sizzling tips to becoming a hot writer become a top blogger fiction tips by barrie davenport as a writer, you have likely experienced various levels of intensity and pleasure in the process of working on your craft. there’s writing when you are just slopping words on paper. and there’s writing that is slow and laborious and painfully tedious. but then there’s writing — head-spinning, mind-blowing writing. the words flow from some supernatural place, and it feels like there is nothing between your mind and your fingers typing away at the keys. it is a totally delicious experience, and often it comes out of nowhere, as a completely unexpected — well, brain climax. some people call this inspiration or being in the flow. and like the aforementioned other activity, the rest of the world just disappears. when i feel it coming on, i just have to do something about it — right now. and i want to get the very most out of the experience. there’s no point finishing dinner or the television program i’m watching, or continuing whatever i’m doing. i have to get to that computer and turn it on. in those inspired moments, the writing is so easy and natural, and it is completely absorbing. like a lovely out-of-body experience. unfortunately, this state of writing bliss cannot be sustained for long. don’t you wish you could bottle whatever it is that stimulates the mind to open so beautifully and spontaneously? a mental door has been flung wide, and amazing ideas and words come spilling out, just begging to be arranged into a story or poem or article. neurons are ablaze, firing left and right. you can write and write, pouring forth words in great gushes, only to finish feeling completely spent. my, oh my. “one must be drenched in words, literally soaked in them, to have the right ones form themselves into the proper patterns at the right moment.” ~hart crane and just as spontaneously, that door will slam shut again, and your brain snaps closed like a mental chastity belt. every sentence is a struggle. ideas and words evade you like a coy mistress. have you ever spent hours with your fingers poised on your keypad, staring at the screen like it might tell you what to write? it is so frustrating. you might as well be under water or in a slow-motion movie. where did all of those darling words and ideas run off to? sadly, if writers waited on the mistress of inspiration in order to write, we would produce work very sporadically. and eat lots of beans and rice. we have to write whether we are in the mood or not. if you write for your career, then writing must be a daily act of self- discipline , even when it’s lackluster and boring. is it possible to put yourself in the mood for inspiration? can you put on a slinky mental nightgown or pop a cerebral viagra to prepare yourself to be in the flow? yes, there are things you can do, and you don’t have to order them from the back of a magazine or get a prescription! “the great advantage of being in a rut is that when one is in a rut, one knows exactly where one is.” — arnold bennett if you have to produce something today, and your creativity has rebuffed you, here are some ideas to get the mental juices flowing: set the stage. you know where you like to write. clear all of the mess off the desk or table. put it out of your sight. be sure you aren’t hungry or thirsty, in pain, or otherwise distracted. if you can write to music, play music that sets the mood for your topic. walk outside for a few minutes. get a change of scenery and some fresh air to distract you from your mental sluggishness. re-frame your thinking. when you aren’t in the mood to write, you begin to think you are a bad writer. don’t focus on the end product or your lack of inspiration. just have fun in the process. write without constraints and clean up the messy parts later. relax and detach for a few minutes. close your eyes, breathe deeply and try to empty your mind. meditate for ten or fifteen minutes if you have the time. send your subconscious a message. while your eyes are closed, ask for inspiration. invite the ideas to come forth and the words to flow. visualize your reader. think about the people who will be reading your words. what can you say that will inform, uplift, inspire, confound, or humor them? if inspiration doesn’t produce the words, use your intellect and refine later. do a warm-up. get your fingers and mind ready for writing by writing mindlessly. answer some emails. revise a previous article. type favorite quotes or paragraphs from other writers. ease your brain and muscles into readiness. think poetically. even if you aren’t writing a poem, think in the language and nuance of a poet. make your words juicy and provocative. do some reading or research. if you know the topic you are writing about, read from some books you have about the topic or search the internet to get your mind wrapped around the topic and to get ideas pumping. look for inspiration in the words of others. take a lot of notes. as you are reading, write down everything that might be interesting or potentially pertinent to your topic. as you write enough notes, ideas will amazingly start to formulate into elements of your story or article. create a list of interesting words. find melodious and beautiful words to have handy at your desk while you are writing. phone a friend. call someone with some sense and creativity and talk through your topic and ideas with them. ask for feedback. draw from their energy and enthusiasm. write an outline or bullet points. begin putting something on paper. if you have enough material in your head, write a full outline. if not, write bullet points of concepts or ideas that you might want to expand upon. set a time limit. force yourself to write for 20 to 30 minutes without a break. your writing might stink, but at least get the words flowing and some ideas formulated. be disciplined even if you feel discouraged. just keep working. take short breaks. get up and eat something. walk outside again. run in place. listen to music. do some activities to recalibrate your brain and provide some energy. you’ll come back refreshed and ready for more. break your writing into chunks. if you know how long your piece has to be, break down the number of pages and how many pages you will write in an hour or an afternoon. focus on the writing that doesn’t require a lot of brain power and work on that during your time frame. make love to your words. metaphorically of course. view your writing as your beloved. treat each word and sentence tenderly, and caress the most beauty and meaning from every one. when you aren’t in the mood, give instead of take. view your writing as an act of love and a gift you are offering. then you humanize the entire experience. when inspiration walks through the door wearing its red, sexy dress and inviting you for a romp, jump on it as fast as you can. enjoy the wild ride and create something spectacular! but when she leaves you high and dry, don’t cry in your beer or view yourself as a rejected suitor. you can always return to that boy or girl next door, the one who has been true to you all along — the writer who sits down every day and just does the work of writing. if you’d like to read more about how the spoken word can impact your writing and your life, read this article. tweet pin share related posts how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous by laura tong word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong about the author barrie davenport this is a guest post written by barrie davenport, a life and career coach and founder of live bold and bloom, a blog about fearless living. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here visualize, organize, and write anything faster and easier than ever before! writer's blocks is simple, powerful writing software that makes your writing faster, easier and smarter. grab the fully-functional free trial of writer's blocks here writing for life workshops master the craft of fiction writing. make real money from your blogging – today, not in three year’s time the blogger's guides - complete four pack grab your guides here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >