home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my motherhood prevnext 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh leyla preston sun 27th mar 2011 1shares share tweet pin it has been another crazy week. i watched daddy swim with aron today, which was quite an experience. i had never seen aron dive under the water before and i had to admit that i was a little apprehensive. but, i continuously reassured myself that four-month-old babies can instinctively hold their breaths when held underwater – a fantastic instinct that will soon fade when the ways of the world envelope their neurological and physiological senses later on. aron was, again, not the slightest bit fazed at the daddies and babies around him, the blistering heat of the pool area, the aqua blue water enveloping him and the fact that he was being shoved underwater time and time again, as the daddies followed the instructor’s commands. a newborn baby next to aron, who couldn’t have been more than 6 weeks old (the minimum age a baby can attend swimming lessons, i was told by a neighbouring mother) started crying from the chaos of splashing and, quite rightly, demanded to get out and into the arms of her mummy, who swiftly brought out a bottle and ran over to her child. after the session, we ventured back to my parent’s house and it was another beautiful warm and sunny day. mum was preparing food in the kitchen and dad was outside firing up the barbie for a big kebab feast. aron was exhausted from his swim and had fallen asleep before we had arrived and so i placed him into the travel cot that we had set up and left at my parent’s in the lounge. hubby and i are still trying to work out a bedtime routine for aron. we want to incorporate the following: 12 pm nap, 3 pm nap, 7 pm nap, bath time, baby massage, feed and then bed. everything is a bit late and both hubby and i haven’t slept properly in a long time, so we’re both exhausted. we think aron goes to bed too late (at 12 am) and sleeps too much during the day. but, unless we can get him to sleep more at night, we are reluctant to reduce his daytime naps. i never thought that bedtime routines would be the trickiest to master! aron is becoming much more playful now. it’s easy to make him laugh and he seems like a content baby. he copies me by sticking his tongue out when i do the same. he’s especially playful when i’m breastfeeding him and periodically looks up and searches my face when i make the slightest bit of noise. he’s getting very efficient at picking up toys with his hands and constantly has fingers in his mouth, whether it is his or mine. to be honest, i think you can get away with not buying baby toys if your fingers are around! we went to the doctor for aron’s 3rd immunisations. i told the nurse administering the injections about aron’s persistent cough. the nurse said that her son had suffered a continuous cough during spring that lasted 6 months. the doctors had prescribed her son with an inhaler. the weather at the moment is hot, sticky and thickly pollinated. i had even come out in a rash from the smoggy air and felt like my hayfever was back, so of course, aron’s 4-month-old lungs would suffer from the thick polluted london air. aron also had his 3rd immunisations this week. i mentioned to the nurse administering the injections about aron’s persistent cough. the nurse replied that her son had suffered a continuous cough during the spring season that had lasted for 6 months. so, the doctors had prescribed her son with an inhaler. the weather at the moment is hot, sticky and thickly pollinated, and even i had come out in a rash from the smoggy air. i felt like my hayfever was back, so of course, aron’s 4-month-old lungs would suffer from the thick polluted london air. when aron had finished being injected (such a good boy for bearing 3 injections) the nurse made arrangements for a doctor to check aron’s cough. i was slightly worried at having to wait to be seen as i hadn’t given aron any medinol to curb the fever resulting from the jabs. so, i had to wait rather impatiently in the waiting room for about half an hour. aron seemed fine, however. we were called and taken to see a rather jolly and chatty female doctor who proceeded to check aron over with a stethoscope and a swab. she spotted thrush on his tongue and prescribed nystatin. she also heard a slight wheezing in aron’s breath but reassured me that this was fine. aron was too young to contract asthma and it is quite normal for his lungs to suffer from the unusually highly pollinated weather. but she prescribed an inhaler anyway, which i never ended up using. the inhaler itself looked like a fancy tube with a wider part at the end to be placed over aron’s mouth. i honestly felt like he did not have asthma and that my baby only had a cough, which only meant that his lungs were working, right? we were invited to attend a distant relative’s turkish wedding and i welcomed the opportunity to dress up and feel like a real woman again. i had lost a little bit of weight, albeit still two sizes bigger than i was pre-pregnancy, so i wasn’t as self-conscious as before, even though my boobs were now huge at 36e. it took me a long time to find a dress that didn’t make me look humungous and my sister’s best friend generously lent me her flattering black dress which made me look thinner and my boobs slightly smaller. i straightened my hair, put on some makeup and finally felt womanly again. my sister’s best friend had also brought aron a lovely blue pin-striped shirt and grey trousers and a pair of dkny socks for the wedding. aron looked so handsome and everyone at the wedding was gushing over him and commenting on how beautiful and healthy he looked. an older woman advised me to go out and buy an evil eye talisman, which is believed by mediterranean/asian cultures to be an ‘evil glare’ from someone and, as a result, causes misfortune or injury to the person receiving the glare. as we were at a turkish wedding, this phrase or belief is quite common and i didn’t spare it any second thought. although, i did think to buy an evil eye for the house to protect my baby anyway – just in case… my little boy is developing a sense of humour now! he loves it when i surprise him with a funny face or play ‘peek-a-boo’. sometimes if it is too loud or startling, he gets scared and sticks his bottom lip out as if to start crying, but as soon as i pick him up and give him a kiss and cuddle, he is all smiles again. i love making aron laugh, so hubby and i make lots of funny faces and generally just act silly around him, so we can hear his melodic laugh and watch him smile and giggle. we do believe that aron loves us doing that more than his toys. a fun fact – this month is a great month to travel with your baby because s/he can’t quite crawl yet and his/her sleeping and feeding habits are also likely to be less demanding. looking for more breastfeeding posts? click here more posts on motherhood? click here! click here for more posts on teething go back to 16 weeks old never miss a new post! don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want to read! follow motherhood diaries on facebook (facebook recipes page), twitter, pinterest, instagram, google+ and linkedin if you’d like to share your pregnancy or parenting story, then please do share your story here. don’t forget to read our ad policy leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:appointmentasthmababybedtime routinedevelopmentdressing upevil eye talismanfeedmedinolmotherhoodnystatinswimmingthrushwedding related posts 16 weeks old – i need to get some ... aidan’s birth story all i ever wanted was to be a mum breathease multi-purpose product review ... 32 weeks pregnant – things are rea... what to pack in your hospital bag for la... breastfeeding basics: advice for new mum... the reality of motherhood life after birth – back to work or work ... birth partners: doula or don’t ya? how much does a wedding truly cost? coping with colic 33 weeks pregnant – it’s my ... 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... 4 weeks pregnant – first month of ... breastfeeding twins 38 weeks pregnant – the baby’... the best holiday destinations for new pa... 6 weeks pregnant – time to register the ... how to keep yourself healthy and benefit... 15 weeks old – is aron teething al... 5 beach wedding mishaps to avoid top tips for stocking up a dressing up b... letting baby do the work: biological nur... early signs of labour – and what t... how to work with your wedding videograph... aron’s birth story how i’ve changed in thirty years, 1983 &... how to bath your baby – a step-by-step p... how clean is the air we breathe at home?... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok