barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up discover 17 ways your dog is telling you they’re really stressed out share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest samantha erb writer shares share tweet pin it can be difficult to tell whether your dog is exhibiting signs of stress or anxiety, especially if you’ve adopted an adult or senior dog and don’t know them all that well. as with any unusual behavior, we need to know how our dogs usually act in order to pinpoint that something strange is going on. even if you know your best friend better than anyone else, some anxious behaviors are subtle enough to slip under the radar. make sure you know what to look for to put yourself in the best position to help. tail between the legs, pointed down, or only wagging the tip tails really tell a story. a tucked tail is a no-brainer for a stressed or nervous pup, but any tail that isn’t “loose” and swishy when it wags is something to look out for. a stiff tail pointing straight up could indicate a warning, social challenge, or sign of aggression. panting or shaking dogs will pant when they’re hot and shiver when they’re cold, but under any other conditions a trembling body and heavy breathing indicates some level of discomfort. licking lips, or excess chewing and drooling another tricky yet tell-tale sign. lip-licking can be a sign of submission in a social situation, but it also signals that a dog is uncomfortable or nervous. excess drooling during breakfast may not set off your internal alarms either, but finding puddles on your floors might be cause for concern. hiding and trying to be alone or escape cuddling is a canine trademark, so we can’t say it doesn’t break our hearts to see our dogs looking for solitude. they may try hiding under beds, in empty rooms, or simply attempt to remove themselves from any situation. half-moon eyes when dogs move their eyes to see rather than their whole head, it exposes a sliver of white; i.e. a half-moon, also referred to as “whale eyes.” you see this pretty often in stressful shelter environments. ears flattened this one might is a little more obvious to spot. the ears could be pinned back or completely flat against the head. excess shedding it can be hard to separate excess shedding from normal shedding, so it’s not necessarily an instant indication of stress. this could also be a sign of an unrelated medical condition, so be sure to check with your vet before jumping to any conclusions. yawning if a dog repeatedly yawns, they’re telling you they’re uncomfortable. you might notice this happening as you wait in the vet’s office, as it’s your pup’s way of managing his nervousness. tense muscles speaking of the vet, you might also see that the doctor struggles to check your dog’s joints and range of motion because their muscles are so tight. just like humans get tense when anxious or scared, a dog will stiffen up for the same reason. scratching in frustrating, stressful, or even exciting situations, a dog might scratch (or bite, especially their paws) even if they’re not itchy. like excess shedding, this one may need a second opinion from your vet just in case it’s something other than anxiety. looking for comfort we often make the mistake of coddling our nervous dogs, when really they could be interpreting the affection as a reward for their anxious behavior. they may come crawling into your lap or push right up beside you as a nervous gesture, particularly if there is stressful stimuli nearby. aggressive behaviors like lip curling or snapping it’s no mystery why a dog might panic and try to bite or growl at the thing that makes them uncomfortable. this is why it’s so important to monitor strangers and children, since they don’t understand your dog’s body language like you do and will potentially cause anxiety with closeness and quick movements. the same goes for other dogs who aren’t very good at listening to behavior cues. without proper training, it’s best for your dog’s safety and others’ to keep an eye out for these gestures and avoid a volatile situation before it happens. excessive barking have you ever left for work only to hear a panicked stream of barks from the other side of the door? some will blame a lack of obedience training or boredom for too much barking, and that may be part of the issue, but it’s also quite common for dogs to bark and howl as a sign of stress. destruction if you come home at the end of the day to shredded pillows, trash can explosions, or ripped-up carpet, anxiety and boredom are likely culprits. take your dog for a long walk or play ball for a little while before you leave them alone—exercise is essential. going potty in the house separation anxiety is super common, and arriving home to accidents isn’t unusual if the anxiety is severe. even if your dog is fully house-trained, a stressful situation could cause them to regress. have patience with them! pacing or restlessness dogs are a lot like us in this way. discomfort and stress may cause them to pace and seem unable to sit still. hyper-vigilance constantly looking around or becoming alert at the faintest noise or movement is common if a dog doesn’t feel at ease in her environment. there are too many reasons to list as to why a pup might be stressed out at home, but a few of the most common include needing (craving!) a routine—feed meals and go for walks around the same time every day, as changes to this schedule can make dogs anxious—boredom, loud noises, strange people, and you! dogs pick up on how you’re acting and feeling, and if you’re stressed out, they’ll feed off that energy. the easiest remedy is to avoid potential stressors, though we realize that’s not always possible. try to avoid stressful situations that you know your dog won’t enjoy, and make sure they have a “safe zone” at home to go to when they need to unwind. a cozy bed, a covered crate, anything away from all the hubbub. and while proper training is essential to keep both you and your dog happy, exercise is the best medicine for almost any anxious ailment. a tired dog is a happy dog, as they say, and for good reason. exercise helps remove those excess layers of nervous energy and can make a world of difference managing separation anxiety and general nervousness. if, after trying to solve the issue to no avail, consider seeing your vet to discuss some natural alternatives before trying prescription drugs. cbd extract, for example, is a non-psychoactive compound available as an oil or a biscuit, and has received positive feedback from many pup parents who give it as a way of managing their dog’s anxiety and other emotional or physical conditions. comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up samantha erb writer this first-of-its-kind dog dental care system is changing the game for stank breath & dirty teeth 4th grade teacher challenged students to create barkbox prototypes, and we turned their designs into real life toys! barkbox theme reveal: your dog's gonna love the hidden surprises in these toys 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go