worksheets all topics a-z grammar vocabulary speaking reading listening writing pronunciation virtual classroom articles posters books more worksheets by season 600 creative writing prompts warmers, fillers & ice-breakers coloring pages to print flashcards classroom management worksheets emergency worksheets revision worksheets resources we recommend busyteacher home » teaching ideas » coloring pages for kids free coloring pages for kids teaching english as a second language to younger students presents its own set of special challenges - and while it takes some patience, it also brings its own unique rewards. while your younger students may not be able to handle all the types of exercises that your older students can, they bring a fresh-faced enthusiasm into the classroom - and they often turn out to be full of funny surprises. if your class is still at the age where they’re first learning to read - even in their own native language - you can’t exactly just hand them worksheets and expect them to figure out what to do. one approach to this is simply to focus on listening and speaking instead - but even those activities work more smoothly if you’ve got some pictures and words to point out along the way. or you may want to organize some games, so your high-energy youngsters can burn off some excess energy while they learn. whichever approach you take - and, if you’re like most experienced esl teachers, you’ll probably try a combination of all the above - busyteacher.org’s 172 coloring pages for kids will make sure you never run out of activities to present. when used in combination with the more detailed exercises in your esl textbook, they’ll provide a wealth of diverse exercises that’s sure to keep your youngsters engaged and interested. in fact, the name “coloring pages” doesn’t really do justice to the sheer variety of resources we’ve got here. while some are just simple sheets of colorable pictures and vocabulary words, others provide short sentences for kids who’ve learned to read a little, or encourage kids to draw the pictures that match with the vocab words listed. some even help kids design their own crafts, which they can take home and show off to proud parents. planning a special themed unit? we’ve got whole sets of coloring pages designed around themes like holidays, international cultures, foods, animals, body parts, and many others. but in any lesson, these worksheets will serve as a welcome switch-up from the routine of board work and speaking, and will get your kids thinking about the english language in all kinds of new and creative ways. all these 172 coloring pages have found their way onto busyteacher.org thanks to the efforts of esl teachers just like you, working all over the world. our international community believes in sharing, which is why we’ve made every worksheet completely free to download, print, use, and share as you like. all we ask is that, if you’ve got a worksheet of your own that you’d like to share, you click the “submit a worksheet” button at the bottom of this page, and send it our way. busyteacher.org’s 172 coloring pages are here for you to use however you want - so dive in and take a look! you can choose from the top ten most popular coloring pages, or browse our whole library with the handy thumbnail view. you’ll also notice our “quick view” feature, which lets you pop out a larger view of the first page of any worksheet, so you can see exactly what you’ll be getting when you download it. take a look, grab any coloring pages you like, and give ‘em a try in your classroom. we’re sure your students will love ‘em! read more......less filter by level new complete beginner (130) elementary (101) pre-intermediate (19) intermediate (2) upper-intermediate advanced (0) exam level (0) suitable for all levels (7) clear filters filter dramatically improve the way you teach: check out our writing resources creative writing prompts 1-50 creative writing prompts 51-100 creative writing prompts 101-150 creative writing prompts 151-200 creative writing prompts 201-250 creative writing prompts 251-300 creative writing prompts 301-350 creative writing prompts 351-400 creative writing prompts 401-450 creative writing prompts 451-500 creative writing prompts 501-550 creative writing prompts 551-600 make a word search: create awesome-looking custom word searches in seconds! create now › make a word scramble: instantly create custom word/sentence scrambles for your class! create now › make a double puzzle: generate double puzzles your students will love - hours of fun! create now › esl articles view our latest knowledgebase articles that will help you become a better english teacher. learn from professional teachers and put a bit of your own creativity into it! top 10 tongue twisters: true teacher's treasure? 10 february themed language building activities beyond martin luther king day: teaching argument through the writings of martin luther king wida and access testing: what you need to know how to be a better teacher: the secret recipe that every pro knows view all rate this category 4.4 out of 5, rated by 8 teachers most popular clothes [full lesson plan] telling the time colour in the healthy foods 9 fire safety coloring pages that may save lives chinese new year: 13 coloring pages advent calendar - christmas activities turkey: paper tube zoo project for your young learners colors for kindergarten alphabet and basic information for young kids colouring board game sort by: most recent | most viewed | rating christmas sweater coloring pages zach nagle •teaching ideas » coloring pages for kids we just released a book of christmas sweater coloring pages. a fun activity for kids during the holidays. they are all freely available for download to print and use with students. 1 4,854 all coloring for complete beginners to teach spelling skills marina talvir •homework, spelling, coloring pages for kids this worksheet enables young children to demonstrate their knowledge of consonants and encourages them to read words with letter "aa". looking a the pictures children should guess what consonants ... 3 13,538 beg valentine's day worksheet: colouring page 11 primaryleap •saint valentine's day, february, coloring pages for kids valentine's day worksheet: colouring page. make february 14th a special day with our fun printables and activities. this colouring page can be used as an extra resource when teaching students abou ... 2 9,022 elem valentine's day worksheet: colouring page 11 primaryleap •saint valentine's day, february, coloring pages for kids valentine's day worksheet: colouring page. make february 14th a special day with our fun printables and activities. this colouring page can be used as an extra resource when teaching students abou ... 2 5,968 elem valentine's day worksheet: colouring page 10 primaryleap •saint valentine's day, february, coloring pages for kids valentine's day worksheet: colouring page. make february 14th a special day with our fun printables and activities. this colouring page can be used as an extra resource when teaching students abou ... 3 5,404 elem put busyteacher in your inbox sign up for the busyteacher weekly and be the first to get direct links to our latest teaching articles, worksheets and lesson plans. goes out to 323,134 subscribers every wednesday. see last week's issue. yes, sign me up! thank you for joining our mailing list! valentine's day worksheet: colouring page 9 primaryleap •saint valentine's day, february, coloring pages for kids valentine's day worksheet: colouring page. make february 14th a special day with our fun printables and activities. this colouring page can be used as an extra resource when teaching students abou ... 2 5,232 elem valentine's day worksheet: colouring page 8 primaryleap •saint valentine's day, february, coloring pages for kids valentine's day worksheet: colouring page. make february 14th a special day with our fun printables and activities. this colouring page can be used as an extra resource when teaching students abou ... 3 5,833 elem valentine's day worksheet: colouring page 7 primaryleap •young learners, saint valentine's day, february, coloring pages for kids valentine's day worksheet: colouring page. make february 14th a special day with our fun printables and activities. this colouring page can be used as an extra resource when teaching students abou ... 2 5,614 elem valentine's day worksheet: colouring page 3 primaryleap •young learners, saint valentine's day, february, coloring pages for kids valentine's day worksheet: bumblebee colouring. make february 14th a special day with our fun printables and activities. this colouring page can be used as an extra resource when teaching students ... 2 5,149 elem greetings card - happy hanukkah (with dreidels) primaryleap •young learners, hanukkah, december, coloring pages for kids kids can write their own message in this greetings card or use it as an extra resource when learning about hanukkah! hanukkah is also known as the festival of lights and feast of dedication, and i ... 3 6,164 elem colouring worksheet - menorah primaryleap •young learners, hanukkah, december, coloring pages for kids hanukkah, also known as the festival of lights and feast of dedication, is an eight-day jewish holiday. kids can colour the colouring worksheet and use it as an extra resource when learning about ... 2 6,785 elem colouring worksheet - dreidel primaryleap •young learners, hanukkah, december, coloring pages for kids hanukkah, also known as the festival of lights and feast of dedication, is an eight-day jewish holiday. kids can colour the colouring worksheet and use it as an extra resource when learning about ... 3 5,395 elem colouring worksheet - happy hanukkah primaryleap •young learners, hanukkah, december, coloring pages for kids hanukkah, also known as the festival of lights and feast of dedication, is an eight-day jewish holiday. kids can colour the colouring worksheet and use it as an extra resource when learning about ... 2 5,217 elem junior a/b colours-numbers athanasia diplarou •cardinal numbers, young learners, colours, coloring pages for kids a colourpage to practice numbers and colours for junior classes. students have to be able to read the numbers (in letters) understand which number is in the picture and choose the correct colour t ... 6 17,555 beg zombie pirate http://retrocoloring.com •halloween, coloring pages for kids a coloring page from "cool and funny zombies coloring book" by yury shchipakin - first zombie coloring book appropriate for 3 – 5 years old kids. 3 11,808 all look or looks cerealeche •singular/plural nouns, present simple, coloring pages for kids i designed this worksheet for younger students, they have to complete the sentences with "look" or "looks" depending if it is singular or plural, then they can color the images as they wish. i hop ... 3 10,225 begelem print and color rouldogg •teaching ideas » coloring pages for kids this coloring page for kids combines colouring and some words (classroom furniture and objects mostly) and phrases for the very beginners (see "excellent! 1" unit 1 and 2 active vocabulary). child ... 2 13,347 beg hello-goodbye for kindergarten students juan constant velasquez •everyday/social english, coloring pages for kids this worksheet its about a funny elephant that says "hello" showing a smile, then it says "good bye" showing its backwards. it is perfect to be used with very young esl learners in their fir ... 7 22,976 begelem food activity for young learners aliciaime •food, coloring pages for kids this worksheet is made for young learners. once you have taught them some food vocabulary and how to write it, you can have fun with this activity. my students loved it. your students have to ... 7 20,648 beg class rules! perfect for first days ro ubilla •classroom management and discipline, coloring pages for kids i will be using this worksheet on the first day of class as a way of introducing some simple rules. it's designed for children, i made it thinking about the nine year olds that will come into my c ... 14 33,461 begelempre-int chinese new year - colouring page 1 primaryleap •february, coloring pages for kids chinese new year is celebrated on the 19 february. use this colouring page of a chinese dragon for younger learners when teaching them about chinese new year. this activity could help lead into a ... 4 8,747 elem chinese new year - colouring page 2 primaryleap •february, coloring pages for kids chinese new year is celebrated on the 19 february. use this colouring page of a man holding a chinese flag for younger learners when teaching them about chinese new year. this activity could help ... 3 6,427 elem chinese new year - colouring page 3 primaryleap •february, coloring pages for kids chinese new year is celebrated on the 19 february. use this colouring page of a rat for younger learners when teaching them about chinese new year. this activity could help lead into a chinese new ... 3 5,730 elem chinese new year - colouring page 4 primaryleap •february, coloring pages for kids this year, chinese new year is celebrated on the 19 february. use this colouring page for younger learners when teaching them about chinese new year. this activity could help lead into a chinese n ... 3 5,944 elem chinese new year - colouring page 5 primaryleap •february, coloring pages for kids chinese new year is celebrated on the 19 february. use this colouring page of a chinese dragon for younger learners when teaching them about chinese new year. this activity could help lead into a ... 3 7,719 elem got a great worksheet on coloring pages for kids? tell us about it and become a busyteacher contributor! submit a worksheet previous page 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 next page busyteacher.org copyright 2007-2020 © about submit a worksheet log in terms privacy contact us mobile version working. please wait...