nomadic matt's travel site travel better, cheaper, longer search for: travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop 18 easy steps for planning your next trip updated: 02/24/20 | february 24th, 2020 i remember when i started planning my first trip around the world. i had no idea what i was doing. when i decided to quit my job and travel the world, i walked into a bookstore and bought lonely planet’s southeast asia on shoestring. buying that guidebook was my first step toward long-term travel. it made the trip seem more real, more tangilbe. it made it all seem possible. while helpful, the book didn’t exactly prepare me for planning a trip around the world. back then, there weren’t really travel blogs, guides, sharing economy websites, and apps like there are today. i was excited and determined — but i was lost. i just had to figure it out as i went, hoping i didn’t miss anything important. trip planning can be a daunting task. where do you begin? what’s step one? what’s step two? what’s step three? it’s easy to get overwhelmed, especially when you haven’t done something like this before — and especially considering just how much information there is out there these days. blogs, social media, and guidebooks have never been more plentiful. there’s a firehose of information out there which can sometimes make the task of planning a trip even more challenging and overwhelming. after a decade of traveling the world, i’ve planned countless trips and vacations for myself, friends, family, and even group tours. in the beginning, it was trial by fire and i learned a lot of lessons the hard way. however, that helped me develop an efficient checklist that ensures i don’t miss anything important during the trip planning process. after all, i don’t want to get to my next destination and then realize i forgot something. and neither do you! there is a lot of information on this website (and even more information packed into my book), but one question that comes up frequently is, “matt, how do i put this all together? how do i plan a trip?” in a continuing effort to help you get out the door and into the world, i’ve created this step-by-step guide on how to plan a trip. it works for any kind of trip and no matter how long you’re going for! just follow this checklist and you’ll be off in no time! table of contents step 1: decide where you want to go step 2: decide the length of your trip step 3: will you travel solo? step 4: research your costs step 5: start saving money step 6: get a travels rewards credit card step 7: switch to no-fee atm cards step 8: stay focused and inspired step 9: check for last-minute deals step 10: book your flight step 11: book your accommodation step 12: plan your activities step 13: sell your stuff step 14: automate your bills step 15: tell your card companies you’re traveling step 16: pack! step 17: buy travel insurance step 18: enjoy your trip if you want to jump ahead, simply click on any of the links above. how to plan your next trip step 1: decide where you want to go defining where you want to go sets a goal to work toward. a lot of people talk vaguely about travel. they never say where they are going, just that they are going. picking a destination is immensely important, as it gives you a definite goal. it’s a lot easier to mentally get behind “i am going to paris in the summer” than “i’m going to europe” or “i’m going somewhere.” not only will your trip become more concrete for you and easier to commit to, but it will make planning easier as well…because you know what to work towards. get specific with your plans. get detailed. the more focused and concrete your goal, the easier it will be to actually reach it. resources for picking your travel destination: 200+ in-depth destination guides five destinations under $30 per day 10 destinations to visit when you’re a budget traveler step 2: decide the length of your trip how much does it cost to travel? that depends! without knowing how long you’re going away for, i can’t answer that question. and it’s a question you need to answer so you can start planning! in order to figure out how much you need to save you’ll need to know how long your trip will be. are you going away for a week? a month? a year? the length of your trip is a huge factor in determining how much money you need. spend some time mulling that over until you have your answer. for example, after you say “i’m going to paris this summer,” add “for x days.” that way you can start to narrow down just how much money you’re going to need to save. “i am going to paris for 10 days” is a trip that you can plan for. it’s an attainable goal. want to learn how i travel the world for free? get my free guide step 3: will you travel solo or go with someone? one of the biggest decisions you’ll need to make is whether you’re going to go alone or travel with someone. both are great options — but they are decidely different choices too. traveling solo will give you the freedom to go anywhere you want. no compromising. you just go wherever the wind takes you! however, it means you have to do all the planning yourself — which can seem daunting if you’re new to trip planning. traveling with someone means you have someone to help plan the trip with you. it will make researching your itinerary faster and you’ll have someone to spend time with on the road. however, it also means you’ll need to compromise sometimes. perhaps on meals or activities or accommodation. it will just depend on you and the person you travel with. at the end of the day, there is no wrong answer. personally, i love the freedom of solo travel. but i’ve had some incredible trips with friends too. chances are you’ll get to do both over the years. but for now, what is this trip going to be? solo or with someone? step 4: research your costs so you know where you’re going and how long you’ll be there, but to really nail down how much money you need, your next task is to research the costs in your destination at the style of travel you want. do you want to backpack, or would you rather stay in luxury hotels? how much are hostels, hotels, restaurants, and attractions? knowing will allow you to estimate how much money you’ll need for your trip. here is how to research costs: buy a guidebook. you can begin with my travel guide section. ask on community websites like our forum and facebook group or lonely planet. google prices for specific things you want to do. you don’t need to do more than that. there’s so much information on the web that if you go down the rabbit hole of overplanning, you’ll get lost and confused by the firehose of information. stick to those four things and you’ll be set! in our example, if you are going to paris for 10 days and need $75 usd a day (not including your flight), you know you need to save $750 usd (though round up to $800 usd since it’s good to have extra) for your trip. if you were to travel around the world for a year, you’d need $50 usd a day. here are some other insightful posts that will help you better estimate your costs: 5 ways to make your money last when you travel how to know the travel info you find is legit how i research my solo travel destinations step 5: start saving money before you can start saving money, you need to know how much you have and how much you’re spending. start to write down all your current expenses so you can determine where you are spending money — and how you can cut back. people bleed a lot of money every day through small purchases: a coffee here, a snack there. it all of that adds up. in order to make changes to your spending habits, you first need to understand them. making a list will do just that. it will also put your financial needs into a better perspective. for example, if you need $2,000 usd for the trip you’re taking in eight months, that means you only have to save $8.33 usd per day. couldn’t you find a way to save $8 usd per day? heck, your daily coffee is most of that! if you’re struggling to save money, here are 22 ways to cut your expenses and save money for travel. this will help you get started and on the road to saving money in no time! step 6: get a travels rewards credit card while you’re working to save money, get a travel credit card so you can earn sign-up bonuses to redeem miles and points for free flights and hotel stays. collecting points and miles from travel credit cards is how i get tons of free flights, free hotel stays, and free travel perks every single year — and without any extra spending too! these days, most cards have welcome offers of up to 50,000 points when you meet their minimum spending requirement. that’s enough miles for a free flight almost anywhere in the world! if you want a free flight, sign up for the cards that help with that. if you want free hotel rooms, get a hotel card. either way, sign up for a travel credit card and start earning points today. as long as you can pay off your monthly balance, you’ll get free travel credit. you don’t need to sign up for very many cards either; pick one or two and focus on those. do this the moment you decide you want to travel. don’t wait — waiting equals lost miles, which means less free travel. collecting points and miles (which is called “travel hacking”) is what all the experts do to cut their costs and travel longer. it’s what has kept my costs down and me on the road for so many years. i am always doing this so i can travel for as cheap as possible. for more information on travel hacking and travel credit cards, check out these posts: how to pick the best travel credit card how i earn 1 million frequent flier miles every year the best travel credit cards in 2020 the ultimate guide to travel hacking step 7: switch to no-fee atm cards once you’re abroad, you;re going to need money. while many countries will accept credit cards, in the majority of countries cash is still king. that means you’ll need to use atms to withdraw the local currency. and that also means you’re going to get dinged by atm fees. if you’re just away for a week or two, paying a few dollars in atm fees isn’t the end of the world. but if you’re away for a longer period, those fees will add up and chew into your travel budget — a budget you’ve worked hard to grow. don’t give banks any of your hard-earned money. how? by using a no-fee atm card. i use charles schwab, but there are lots of other banks (don’t forget to check your local banks) that don’t charge atm fees. additionally, you can join a bank in the global atm alliance. by using a no-fee atm card you can avoid those pesky atm fees, leaving you more money for what it was intended for: travel here’s exactly how you can avoid atm fees while traveling. step 8: stay focused and inspired while you get closer to your goal, make sure that you keep feeding your desire to travel. travel planning can be exhausting and overwhelming — especially if you don’t have support from your friends and family. it can often get discouraging and feel out of reach at times. luckily, there are tons of ways to stay focused and keep your spirits high thanks to the amazing community we have on this website. here are some inspiring travel stories to help keep you inspired to travel: why it’s never the perfect time to travel 13 travel books that will give you serious how michael saved $14k in six months why a 50-year-old couple sold it all to travel the world how to change the “i’m too poor to travel” mindset and say yes to travel 8 ways to stay motivated to travel wanderlust additionally, be sure to join our online travel group the nomadic network. not only will you find support (and tons of tips) online, but we also host regular in-person events all around the world. these are a great way to get inspired, meet other awesome travelers in your area, and get travel advice. step 9: check for last-minute deals okay, you’re inspired, prepared, and on your way to saving money for your trip. but before you go buy that flight or book that hotel, check for deals you might have missed. you may dream of paris but maybe there are great deals to berlin right now. or maybe you can get a seven-day cruise for 70% off, a package deal to hawaii for the price of your flight to paris, or 50% off sailing trips around greece. these days, there is always a deal to be found — especially if you’re flexible with your dates and/or destinations. some deal websites worth checking out are: scott’s cheap flights the flight deal holiday pirates step 10: book your flight after you’ve used your travel credit card and received your sign-up bonus, use your miles to book your flight. it is harder to use miles these days due to less availability, so make sure to book early to ensure you get your desired flight. fortunately, there are still many ways to avoid being the person on the flight who paid the most for their ticket. my favorite sites for finding cheap airfare are: momondo – a great platform for finding really cheap flights. skyscanner – skyscanner is one of the best websites for searching multiple destinations at the same time. google flights – like skyscanner, google flights is great for open searches to multiple destinations. kiwi – kiwi is great for finding lesser-known routes or smaller carriers. airtreks – airtreks focuses exclusively on multi-destination rtw tickets. for the best deals, book your flight about two-three months in advance. here are two articles on how to score a cheap flight: how to find cheap flights booking flights: everything you need to know step 11: book your accommodation if you’re traveling for under two weeks and have a set schedule, feel free to book accommodation for the duration of your trip if it will give you peace of mind (or if you’re visiting during the high season). for trips longer than two weeks (or if you are going to be traveling long-term) just book your first few days. that will ensure you have a place to go on arrival. once there, you can get insider advice from your hotel/hostel staff as well as other travelers. you can then use that info to plan your next steps. while you can book more than your first few nights, you might end up wanting to change your plans once you land. i prefer having flexibility, which is why i always just book my first few nights and go from there. here are my go-to sites when it comes to finding the best deals on accommodation: hostelworld – hostelworld has the largest selection of hostels and is my go-to site for finding affordable hostels online. agoda – agoda has the best results if you’re heading to asia and the widest selection of properties in the region. booking.com – booking.com is the best overall platform for finding budget hotels and guesthouses. they have the biggest inventory and best deals. airbnb – the go-to site for private rooms and apartments owned by locals. if you plan on staying in a lot of hotels during your trip, sign up for a hotel credit card before you depart. cards like marriott’s bonvoy boundless offer a huge welcome bonus, 6x the points on hotel stays, and a free hotel stay every year. whenever i stay in a hotel, it’s because i’ve earned it with free points! if you’re on a tight budget or you want to connect with more locals furing your tarvels, consider joining paltforms like couchsurfing or be welcome. these communities allow travelers to stay with locals for free as sort of cultural exchange. long-term travelers can also try housesitting or wwoofing as well as they both offer free accommodation (in exchange for either pet sitting or farm work respectively). step 12: plan your activities to make sure you have budgeted properly, outline the major activities you want to enjoy during your trip and how much they cost. make any last-minute adjustments to your savings so you can ensure you have enough money. this will also help you figure out if you need any reservations for your chosen tours or activities. search online for discounts as well. while some countries offer cheaper prices in person, others give discounts to those who book early/online. research which is which for your itinerary so you can save money. for shorter trips, you can also book your activities in advance to ensure you get tickets. for longer trips, book as you go. additionally, before you leave home, have a rough idea of what activities are priorities for you. that way, if you run out of time or money, you can focus on your top activities so you don’t miss out. also, make sure to double-check that there are no holidays or other obstacles that will prevent you from certain activities as well. step 13: sell your stuff if you are going on a long-term trip (six months or more), sell your stuff in order to earn extra money for your trip. start doing this about 60 days before you leave. some sites to use are: gumtree – an online classified site with a focus in the uk and australia. amazon – the biggest online store in the world. craigslist – online global classifieds that have both local and global reach. ebay – another global online classified site. facebook marketplace – great for finding people near you (so you don’t need to ship your items). if you aren’t going to be gone that long, skip this step. if you are going away long-term but want to keep your stuff, move it to a friend’s house or keep it in storage. a good storage company in the us is public storage. it’s one of the most affordable options out there. step 14: automate your bills get rid of your mail, go paperless, and set up online bill payment for your recurring bills to ensure you won’t miss any while overseas. if you are still going to get paper mail, use a service like earth class mail, which will collect and scan your mail for you. (if you are going on a two-week trip, you don’t really need to worry about this, so you can skip this step, too.) if you have the option (and don’t want to pay for a mail service), you can also have all your mail sent to a friend or family member. additionally, you’ll want to make sure you cancel any phone plans you have or switch your plan to one that is more travel-friendly. t-mobile is great for travelers going on trips under 3 months. for any trips longer than that, you’ll want to cancel your plan and just buy sim cards abroad. that will be much cheaper! step 15: tell your card companies you’re traveling no matter how long you’ll be gone, it’s a good idea to let your credit card companies know you will be overseas; that way any transactions that you make aren’t flagged as fraudulent and your card is less likely to be blocked. there’s nothing worse than having to sit on the phone with your credit card company instead of enjoying your vacation. also, make sure you have multiple credit card and debit cards with you. that way, should one card get flagged, lost, or stolen you won’t be left high and dry. i’ve lost cards, had them stolen, and had them flagged many times over the years. without a backup, i would have been stranded — so plan ahead and bring some backup cards just in case! step 16: pack! time to pack for your trip! it can be tempting to want to bring everything with you “just in case” but when it comes to travel, less is more. you don’t need 5 sweaters or 8 pairs of shoes. you can get by with less, i promise. it’s actually quite liberating once you get used to it! i travel with a 40l rei bag and then a smaller day bag. unless you’re heading to multiple climates and need bulky winter hear, you don’t need a massive 70l bag stuffed to the top. here’s my suggested packing list to help you take just the right amount of stuff and avoid overpacking (here’s a list for female travelers as well). while what you pack will depend on where you are going, remember that you don’t need to pack everything you own. you can buy things you need on the road. you can do laundry overseas. at the end of the day, you have to carry everything you bring. so bring less! there are a few extra tiems you might want to pack beyond your everyday clothes, though. some things i like to bring with me are: first aid kit reuseable water bottle lifestraw or steripen water filter packing cubes (to stay organized) travel lock (for hostel lockers) travel adapter quick-dry towel additionally, make sure you bring any prescriptions with you so you have enough for the duration of your trip. if that’s not feasible, bring a doctors note and prescription with you so you can fill it abroad.< step 17: buy travel insurance while a lot of people think, “i’m healthy, i don’t need travel insurance. i won’t get sick,” travel insurance is much more than just medical protection. it covers you when your camera breaks, your flight is canceled, a family member dies and you have to come home, or if something gets stolen. yes, it’s an added expense. but it’s always better to be safe than sorry. i never leave home without it because i’ve seen first-hand just what can happen on the road. i never thought i would pop my eardrum while i was scuba diving in thailand or break my camera in italy. i didn’t know i would get stabbed in colombia. my friend never thought he would break his leg hiking. another friend didn’t expect her father would die and she would have to fly back home. unfortunately, bad things can happen when you’re traveling. true, these events are few and far between. but they can cost tens of thousnds of dollars to handle on your own. if you’re not prepared to pay out of pocket, buy travel insurance. to help you figure out the best plan for you and your trip, here’s my ultimate guide to picking a good insurance company. it will show you how to pick a good plan that covers you for when you get sick, your flights get canceled, if you get injured, something gets stolen, or your trip is delayed. my favorite company is world nomads and i use them for all my trips. if you’re older than 70, check out insure my trip as they are the best provider for older travelers. for more information on travel insurance, you can check out these posts: what does travel insurance actually cover? is travel insurance worth it? world nomads insurance review do you need medical evacuation insurance? the 7 best travel insurance companies in 2020 step 18: enjoy your trip and now, everything comes together. it’s time to go on your trip and have fun! head to the airport, board your plane (don’t forget your passport!), and enjoy the fruits of your labor. you’ve earned this! if you’re feeling nervous, don’t worry — that’s perfectly normal. you’re about to embark on an amazing adventure — and that’s a huge change. feeling anxious or nervous or unsure is something every traveler experiences. but you’ve made it this far. trust your planning, follow your instincts, and you’ll have the trip of a lifetime. i guarantee it. *** by using this post as a guideline for your trip planning, you can better organize and prepare for your trip. you’ll check all the boxes, not miss anything, and have plenty of money for your vacation. it can be as simple as booking a flight and packing or as complex as rearranging your entire life to go backpack the world forever. but, no matter how long your trip may be, this list will help you stay organized and motivated as you plan your trip and to step onto that plane and out into the world. p.s. – yes, i did leave out visas and vaccinations, because needing those isn’t as universal as the other stuff on this list, but don’t forget to check if you need those, too! want to have this information at your fingertips? download this post as a pdf want to learn how i travel for free? stop paying full price! download my free guide to travel hacking and learn how to get free flights and accommodation. you will learn: how to pick a credit card how to earn miles for free flights & hotels is travel hacking really a scam? get the free guide book your trip: logistical tips and tricks book your flight find a cheap flight by using skyscanner or momondo. they are my two favorite search engines because they search websites and airlines around the globe so you always know no stone is left unturned. book your accommodation you can book your hostel with hostelworld as they have the most comprehensive inventory. if you want to stay elsewhere, use booking.com as they consistently return the cheapest rates for guesthouses and cheap hotels. i use them all the time. don’t forget travel insurance travel insurance will protect you against illness, injury, theft, and cancellations. it’s comprehensive protection in case anything goes wrong. i never go on a trip without it as i’ve had to use it many times in the past. i’ve been using world nomads for ten years. my favorite companies that offer the best service and value are: world nomads (for everyone below 70) insure my trip (for those over 70) looking for the best companies to save money with? check out my resource page for the best companies to use when you travel! i list all the ones i use to save money when i travel – and i think will help you too! last updated: march 17, 2020 categories africa airlines america asia australia blogging tips books canada caribbean central america couples travel eco-tourism europe family travel female travel flyte interviews lgbt travel middle east new zealand photography points & miles random musings south america travel advice travel gear travel tips my new memoir is out!! my other awesome books want to share your tips and advice? got questions? visit the community forum to ask questions, get answers, meet people, and share your tips! disclosure: please note that some of the links above may be affiliate links, and at no additional cost to you, i earn a commission if you make a purchase. i recommend only products and companies i use and the income goes to keeping the site community supported and ad free. facebook twitter pinterest email related posts an in-depth guide to planning a lesbian friendly trip 5 steps to booking a cheap flight online how to learn the basics of any language in four steps there are 45 comments erike september 30, 2013 at 10:17 am i am currently in the ‘sell your stuff’ phase. i am glad i started early because i have collected a lot of stuff over the years, most of which i haven’t used in a very long time. i am really enjoying the process of decluttering my home. it is a very freeing experience. reply michelle september 30, 2013 at 11:09 am love this post! we are planning some trips right now and i cannot wait 🙂 reply christina september 30, 2013 at 12:31 pm awesome job on the details in this post, i know so many people who get seriously overwhelmed when planning to travel so i’ll be sure to send this along to them. cheers! reply simon elstad september 30, 2013 at 1:49 pm detailed and thorough checklist…by the time one crosses off #16, one would be definitely on the way to some serious fun with peace of mind that almost everything is catered for. reply joanne k september 30, 2013 at 2:18 pm you must be a mind reader. just today, i thought i would start somewhere but didn’t know where. i’ve been reading your book with my left hand (finished today), you blog with my right hand and anything else in between. like you i like lists, i like this one, 17 steps…. hope to cross your path one day…. j. reply prasad kopanati september 30, 2013 at 5:54 pm thanks for a wonderful and informative post, matt. i was reading step 8 (last minute deals) and wondering how much success one has with it. i am a ardent shopper myself and would always want to get the best deal out there. however, i wait too long (in hope of last minute deals) and usually end up paying more or compromising on the quality. then, i get to listen to the lectures of my wife to buy early 🙁 reply stephanie october 1, 2013 at 9:54 pm another excellent and inspiring article. i don’t thank-you near enough for changing my thoughts of travel into dreams of travel, then plans, then actions, then reality. i’m still a budding traveler but it’s already changed my life and you helped me get here! thank you for your amazing blog 🙂 reply nomadicmatt october 7, 2013 at 8:26 am well, you’re very welcome. enjoy all your future trips! reply hannah october 2, 2013 at 1:51 am definitely a must read! thanks for the tips! we started our rtw trip and it is really tiring to plan for a trip but once you are there, it is all definitely worth it. awesome job on this post 🙂 reply kim mitchell october 2, 2013 at 2:20 pm i’m planning a 14 day train. and hike it paris to rome next may. i researched hostels there they looked really cheesey. is there a list of hostels and b&bs from paris to rome? i’m going alone is it safe? i’ll be charging the flight and rooms and have a budget of 1600$ any suggestions reply mackenzie westphal october 2, 2013 at 5:07 pm kim check out airbnb.com it’s awesome for apartment and room finding and the best part is that there are real reviews so u can see if u would feel safe in that environment . also really affordable :)) reply nomadicmatt october 7, 2013 at 8:19 am as was mentioned, check out the site airbnb.com reply gene and judi october 2, 2013 at 2:53 pm glad we found your site, as the info is invaluable. this checklist is right on. we started to play our europe trip in early summer, and have taken care of our flights, accommodations and planning our travel from country to country. coincidentally we will be in rome for the canonization in april, that should prove interesting. hopefully, the person who rented us an apt in trestavere will not come up with some excuse as the demand will be high. reply mackenzie westphal october 2, 2013 at 5:04 pm i am planning a trip to europe in july 2014. i’m interested in learning more about your opinion of world nomads insurance. i’ve looked on their website since i saw you mention it and it looks like a great choice. only thing i couldn’t find specified was electronkcs. do you know if they specifically cover laptops or camera? reply nomadicmatt october 7, 2013 at 8:18 am up to $500. most don’t cover electronics fully. you’ll need to buy extra insurance for a computer. reply sarah october 2, 2013 at 6:49 pm can you purchase travel insurance as soon as you have booked your trip or can it be done closer to the time? i’ve booked my flights for a trip to se asia in june 2014. reply nomadicmatt october 7, 2013 at 8:18 am you can do it anytime! reply mary norton october 4, 2013 at 1:57 am check your passport if it has enough pages for the countries you are going to. some countries take a page. check the validity as well. you are safe to have at least 6 months before your entry to any destination. reply mojo october 5, 2013 at 2:33 am great article. i read your travel insurance post and you touch on that here too. do you know of any insurance companies that would serve someone who doesn’t live anywhere? you touch on the importance of using cards instead of cash in your book as well.. is there a way for someone to get a pre-paid global card without having a residential address? reply greg october 6, 2013 at 3:01 am my bank blocked my credit card when i was in istanbul, so it’s a great idea to let them know before you go travelling. i had to call back to the usa to my bank to get it fixed. reply steve october 10, 2013 at 11:33 am i found no 14 to be very important: while traveling through south america i had two different credit cards – both have been copied while withdrawling. due to the security checks of my bank those people were not able to get money from my account as they mostly tried to make transactions in north america while i was in argentina – because my bank knew where i am they blocked the card immediately. reply james october 20, 2013 at 12:31 pm good advice! i really need to commit to traveling more. i wish i had the guts to quit my job and just go, but i just can’t do it. i am not getting any younger. thanks for the great advice. reply tracy february 11, 2015 at 10:19 am i’ve started fasting 2 days a week to save money and loose that surplus 1/2 stone! normally a woman would eat 2000 calories a day and on fast days you only eat 500 calories that is a 75 percent saving on food bills per fast day. or a 21% saving on weekly food bills which for me works out about £5 per week saving or £260 per year to go in the holiday fund. also just signed up for the british airways american express credit card who are giving 9000 avios points if you spend £1,000 on their card in the first 3 months – thats enough for a flight from the uk to europe – no monthly fees either, just pay off the card at the end of each month and ‘bingo’ you got yourself a totally free flight. reply garvin may 25, 2015 at 4:28 pm i’m happy that i found this website so that i can plan my vacation that i’m going on. just don’t want to over spend on unnecessary things. reply nehajoshi july 29, 2016 at 4:21 am i was about to plan a trip for myself and just when i found this. thank you for providing such descriptive and well-elaborated tips. i would definitely keep them in mind while planning a trip for me now. reply victor october 12, 2016 at 1:44 pm i was looking for some tool that can help me save information from sites like tripadvisor , lonely planet etc easily and i stumbled on this post. incredible info. thanks for suggesting unwander.com, it has been a life saver in the research phase. reply sarah h december 8, 2016 at 10:45 am what do you suggest for how far you should “book ahead” in terms of flights. for example, i know i’ll be in italy and greece the end of june- end of july. what is the timeline for booking trains, flights, and inter-country travels (including boats for greece)? reply ryan biddulph october 9, 2018 at 5:38 pm #1 adds clarity to the process matt. pick a specific location. proceed in clear, definite fashion. we always pick a specific city and work from there. big clarity builder. rocking tips dude. reply alex october 11, 2018 at 8:26 am definitely a must read! thanks for the tips! i found no 14 to be really really important: my credit card has been copied when i was in mexico. thanks to the security checks of my bank, those scammers were not able to get any money from my account. beware guys ! we are planning some trips right now and i cannot wait ? reply harry october 14, 2018 at 2:33 pm i would love to explore the world but i feel that booking a ticket and actually going there seems like a daunting to me. if i get a chance i would love to a traveller for life. reply breanna december 14, 2018 at 12:18 pm my friends and i just sat down to plan a backpacking trip and had no idea where to start. we are so glad we found your blog and articles!! these 17 steps helped us start to make our travel dreams a reality! reply elena december 19, 2018 at 3:16 am fantastic tips! i wish i had this list when i was preparing for my first ever trip… or second for that matter. even now, after tears of traveling, it makes sense to keep it as a reminder. somehow, i never had a problem with #1 as long as its warm :). #4 is the biggest personal challenge 🙁 #14 is something that i continuously forget (that’s why the bulleted list is the perfect solution, especially when somebody else created it). cheers! reply hazel joy february 7, 2019 at 2:21 pm hi matt. pretty good list. part of my pre-travel planning (after the inspiration part) involves checking with my government’s foreign affairs department to see if there are any extra considerations i need to factor in other than visas. it’s worth checking even if you don’t need a visa. thanks. reply lim may 30, 2019 at 2:42 am seriously, earlier i don’t have any idea to visit sri lanka. but after reading your post, definitely, i’ll plan my next trip to sri lanka. i really love to explore sri lanka’s hill country. thank you for this interesting post! reply nicole october 5, 2019 at 12:34 pm a few extras: make sure you get your immunizations up-to-date, especially if you are going anywhere in asia. also if you are renting a car make sure you figure out the insurance requirements. also health insurance. reply sharon october 12, 2019 at 12:24 am you don’t say how to set up your flights if you’re going to two places. we want to first go to kauai hawaii for a week and a half then fly to honolulu hawaii and stay there a week and a half then fly home. when you set that up do you not put anything in the return part then set another one up to fly between kauai and honolulu then set another one up to fly from honolulu back home? reply jenny kon december 25, 2019 at 4:06 pm seriously, earlier i don’t have any idea to visit sri lanka. but after reading your post, definitely, i’ll plan my next trip to sri lanka. i really love to explore sri lanka’s hill country. thank you for this interesting post! reply jason january 29, 2020 at 8:34 am super useful guide, matt! in my experience, trip planning is something that doesn’t get taken seriously enough and it’s something that pays huge dividends if properly done. reply molly february 20, 2020 at 8:45 am great travel guide tips! i am too planning for foreign tour somewhere in europe. not sure about the place, but either of spain, uk or sweden. i will make sure that i have tick all the boxes mentioned above. reply robert s. february 24, 2020 at 1:55 pm i definitely agree with the idea of letting card companies know you’re going away, as to not be pinged with a suspicious-looking notification. however, i’ve learned that this seems to vary between companies. for example, when i called my bank a few weeks ago, i was told they changed their guidelines and don’t have to be notified ahead of time anymore. something to consider for the future. reply gurjot singh february 27, 2020 at 6:51 am thanks for the tip regarding atm fees. very important to save those extra bucks when going on long term travel abroad! also, planning the trip is so important, and the most fun pre-trip activity. i wonder why people make it so stressful. reply martin february 27, 2020 at 1:58 pm great article. i’m currently working a full time job and saving. when i have enough i’ll quit and go travelling. the hardest part, for me, is saving for something that seems like a distant beautiful dream when you are working a mundane job. it seems unbelievable. it’s also immensely frustrating when there are financial set backs. it seems there is always that extra bill or maybe just overspent a little that month. i’ve seen my projected leave date pushed back by 5 months. i do little things to remind myself. whenever i look up, see a plan, i say, “soon.” i’ll read sites such as yours, check out photos and articles on my destinations. it’s not easy, but i believe we can do almost anything if we want it enough and we can believe in our dreams. it just comes down to making that choice and stop making excuses about why you can’t. so, i’ll go. soon 🙂 reply charlene march 7, 2020 at 9:31 pm thanks for sharing this detailed list, matt! i heard you on the afford anything podcast. fun interview! reply naveen march 12, 2020 at 5:31 am some times i feel when i came to my 9 to 6 desk job, that travel is one of the fantastic experiences to release your stress level. travel is just like a drug people can use during as occasion kind joy stress. for me, travel is the motion capture equipment. thanks, matt for providing such kind of platform,keep posting. reply lubos march 12, 2020 at 12:18 pm thanks matt for such a detailed article! i work full time, but try to travel as much as possible, whenever i can. currently i’m planning a summer holiday in peru, so i will definitely take your advice to heart. reply leave a comment cancel reply by posting a comment, you agree to our community friendly, anti-spam comment policy that can be found here. get my best stuff sent straight to you! send me tips about us about matt copyright privacy policy contact write for us travel tips start here travel blog destination guides guidebooks community travel forum book club flyte travel media courses book your trip accommodation cheap flights travel insurance travel credit cards favorite companies search follow me on the web facebook twitter instagram pinterest copyright © 2020 · nomadic matt’s travel site