skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 18 best podcasting wordpress themes 2020 18 best podcasting wordpress themes 2020 march 24, 2020 rokr theme collections 4 comments there is nothing that should be holding you back with our highly compelling collection of the best wordpress podcasting themes. an entirely new specter of possibilities opens up for you without the need to be a tech wizard. you can launch a website for your podcast even without having any coding skills. that’s why a dedicated wp theme for podcasters comes very handy. it has it all ready and predefined for you. the beautiful web design, the audio player and all other tools and necessities. go beyond having a highly successful itunes feed with thousands of downloads. with a beautiful and responsive wordpress podcasting theme, you can make your audio show look even more professional. it unlocks even more advertising options for you and has a player you can link with your feed. no need to be driving traffic to itunes or soundcloud anymore, you can have it all in one location. with this in mind, not only will your podcast grow, but your website just as well. you win more than once. do not be left behind, whether you are starting new or you are in the podcasting business for a while, have your overall appearance of the highest standards. on your website, you can also start a blog, write about your episodes and use it for content marketing. you see, there are so many different ways how to boost your podcast and grow an enormous audience. shall we begin? here you can find all the best podcasting wordpress themes you can install today. megaphone – popular podcasting theme megaphone is a remarkable podcast wordpress theme with all the necessary material to get you started in little to no time. instead of solely relying on 3rd-party platforms, create your own online presence and have your podcasting business under total control. with megaphone, you can now establish a professional and sophisticated website that will take your project to new heights. before we continue, indeed, megaphone is also 100% responsive, cross-browser compatible and in tune with retina screens. the performance will always be of the highest degree. other specialties of megaphone are user-friendly audio player, support for self-hosted and 3rd-party audios, compatibility with podcasting plugins and automatic episodes detection. custom-made shortcodes and widgets, sticky sidebar, gdrp compliance and tons of ready-made layouts are extra goodies that will do you well. enjoy the outcome and grow a loyal community with megaphone. more info / download demo podcaster hence the name, podcaster helps you build and manage your own podcast website easily and efficiently. it is a responsive podcast wordpress theme that supports both audio and video formats. the theme is very adaptable and does not have a problem meeting the needs and requirements of podcasters. moreover, it is fully set and optimized for blubrry powerpress and seriously simple podcasting plugins. podcaster is ready for retina displays and allows you to customize it to your likings. pick light or dark template, implement your preferred color, choose fonts and create custom headers for every page of your website. parallax scrolling is also included for custom header images to make an even stronger first impression. the front page of your wordpress podcasting website built with podcaster lets guests listen to new episodes and even watch videos. you can link header with your subscription services, like itunes or rss, and have podcasts featured right below. as for your podcast archive, make sure you have it all set so listeners can have quick access to your episode. use a featured picture for the episode and it will also appear as a cover within the archive. you also have control over how many entries you would like to feature per page. along with all the podcast features, podcaster also sports a sticky header, allows you to edit footer and supports disqus comments. to make a long story short, podcaster is a very simple and basic, yet super versatile, wordpress podcasting theme. more info / download demo divi divi is the most flexible and mobile friendly podcast wordpress theme that can be be used for any kind of websites including podcasting. a great design, easy to use page builder and loads of pre-built layouts that you can use as a starting point for your podcasting website. more info / download demo magplus whether you would like to create a web space for your own podcast or share your personal reviews and opinion on others’ works, make it happen with magplus. this highly versatile and super practical wordpress podcasting theme is here for you to get the job done in close to no time. first and foremost, magplus comes with a dedicated sample that you can use out of the box or alter further. as far as the altering goes, it’s the drag and drop editing that helps you sort things out for you. the installation process is super quick and effortless, ensuring you to start with building your blog as fast as possible. other goodies of magplus include review system, mega menu, social media integration, tons of shortcodes, widgets, different post formats, slider designs and twelve header styles. you need to know that listing down the entire collection of magplus’s features would almost feel like writing a novel. enjoy this powerful and all-around solution and create a striking podcasting website once and for all. more info / download demo vice vice is an all-in-one ultimate wordpress music theme that you can use for all sorts of purposes. it covers all aspects of the music industry, from bands, djs, singers and, of course, podcasters. with a ton of people already using it, you, too, will greatly benefit from it. even if you are a very picky user, vice will do the work and make sure it takes care of all of your desires. since responsiveness and mobile-friendliness is key for listeners, that is something you should not be lacking. in modern days we are living, almost everyone is using their smartphones to listen to podcasts. just like with vice, you will offer great user experience to every fan with all wordpress podcasting themes you find in this collection. and with the off-canvas menu, you ensure great navigation across your whole page. there is also a sophisticated audio player that comes with vice theme. it updates automatically, offers invisible mode and helps you add the entire feed to the player’s list with ease. for podcasters exclusively, you get a special post type which displays your episode in a contemporary way. you can set the audio to start playing upon your sites’ load and feature a video in the background. vice gives you full control over whether or not the video background plays audio or not. or you can just decrease the volume so it does not cause distractions. modify the theme to your likings and craft a unique home for your successful podcast show. more info / download demo surround surround is a versatile and adaptive wordpress theme for bloggers, vloggers and podcasters. regardless of your niche, surround caters to your needs and requirements without a hassle. there are six different home designs for you to put into play out of the box or fine-tune further. have in mind, with the use of wpbakery page builder, you do not need to have any prior experience to be able to work with surround. thanks to the drag and drop approach, everyone gets a chance to succeed at building a top-notch podcasting website with surround. surround is in tune with all the popular wordpress plugins for easy integration. moreover, the tool is optimized for fast loading speed, so the performance stays first-class across all devices and browsing platforms. other treats contain revolution slider, mega menu, header and footer layouts, instagram feed and various shortcodes. you also get documentation and access to a team of experts for a flawless page realization. more info / download demo rekord rekord is an elegant, modern and interest sparking wordpress podcasting theme with a broad selection of material. from page layouts to all sorts of different elements and components, rekord sports it all for you to take to your benefit. mix and match the available, introduce your signature style and shine online with a dope website. rekord also comes with elementor drag and drop page builder, which allows you to avoid coding and programming tasks. additional amenities contain dark and light modes, bootstrap 4, front-end content upload, wavesurfer and more. to sum it up, all you need is one tool, like rekord, and you can already start making moves online without a sweat. little work for outstanding results that will take you to an entirely new level. spread the word for your podcast out with rekord, create a nifty page and make a difference once and for all. more info / download demo fastcast fastcast is yet another outstanding and regularly updated wordpress podcasting theme. with eight different samples, you can quickly find the one that fits your meticulous taste best. whether you go niche or you plan to start a more general podcast, with fastcast, you can make them happen comfortably. along with the ready-made demos, fastcast also comes with dark and light modes and an option to alter the default settings according to your desires. the web design of fastcast is clean and minimalistic, ensures a smooth experience. also, this cracking web design is entirely flexible and responsive, adjusting to all devices and screens in a snap of a finger. fastcast supports all the popular 3rd-party audio and video sharing platforms for immediate inclusion. last but not least, enjoy six months worth of free support, assisting you at fully getting the gist of running a podcasting website like a champ. more info / download demo vipo vipo is an all-around solution for building a website for your podcast. with this wordpress podcasting theme, you can sort out an online presence in a matter of minutes. have in mind, the out of the box web design already works as a full-blown page. of course, you can always edit and improve the look of vipo and make it practice your likings exactly. vipo also comes with a user-friendly interface that will help you manage and maintain your page without difficulty. with vipo, you can submit your podcast to itunes and google play music, as well as import episodes and contents from an external rss feed. vipo also unlocks statistics which gives you a better understanding of who is listening and downloading your content. indeed, with the amazing pliability, vipo works on handheld and desktop devices like a dream. it is speed optimized, too, to ensure an enviable performance. more info / download demo wpcast if you are starting your own podcasting venture journey, make sure you market it the right way with a website that screams professionalism and sophistication. instead of starting from scratch, you can now hammer out the exact page you want with the amazing wordpress podcasting theme, wpcast. it is a simple to use tool that you can tailor to your exact needs quickly and effortlessly. with a refreshing website, you can grow your podcast humongous, getting a horde of new followers without trouble. with wpcast, you can easily spread the word out and even connect it to other popular networks. interactive slider with player, playlist, sixteen custom shortcodes, give donations plugin and loads of other handy features come with wpcast for your convenience. make a difference now and enter the podcasting game with a bang. more info / download demo onair2 no questions asked, onair2 supports all the latest podcasting technologies which make your website crafted with it of the highest standards. it has you sorted with the popular page builder, tuneln app icons, events carousel and more. onair2 supports 11 custom post types, 7 custom widgets and 14 custom shortcodes. developing a unique site with this first-class wordpress podcasting theme is a no-brainer. along the way, you will find all the fantastic secret gems that will enhance your online presence and skyrocket your podcast. a ton of predefined pages to choose from, a custom animated header and a clean and commented code will bring your site-building to the next level. also, the onair2 theme is well documented for everyone to get a chance to put together a page of original web design. additionally, child theme comes included for everyone willing to make something even more advanced out of it. onair2 wordpress theme is well-matched with soundcloud, mixcloud and youtube. also, it features a ready-to-use mp3 player rich in features to make your life a whole lot simpler. bring to your audience a polished podcast that they can enjoy from wherever they want. ensure them to listen to your audios on the go and always keep them updated with the latest episodes. with an innovative website for your podcast, you can turn your existing business into something way bigger. for everyone interested in learning more, read our insightful onair2 theme review. more info / download demo rare radio it seems that podcasts are still going very strong. in fact, the popularity keeps on growing and expanding, and new podcasts are dropping daily. if you have a lot to say, you plan to interview interesting people or whatever, get the word out with a striking website. not just that, but keep every podcast that you release stored in a safe place for everyone to enjoy. with rare radio, you can now establish a striking online presence that will help you take your project to new heights. you have a bunch of demos available that you can take to your total advantage. keep in mind, thanks to the elementor page builder, you can customize rare radio to the very last detail. not just that, you can also create custom pages without the need to write a single line of code. other nifty treats of rare radio are session timetable, podcast playlist, slider revolution, blog section and even an option to sell products online. start online strong with the use of rare radio. more info / download demo viseo yet another fantastic podcast wordpress theme which will bring your show to an entirely different chapter. viseo does not require any coding skills since it uses the useful drag and drop page builder. you can create custom pages all on your own without touching a single line of code. a theme that comes ideal for news, videos and, lastly, podcast websites. no matter which path you choose, or all of them, with viseo, your page will look as modernistic as possible. there is even demo content included which you can use as is or adjust it to your podcast’s needs. see the demo first to get an actual idea of what is possible with viseo. from premium slider, unlimited colors, mega menus, seo optimized and so much more, viseo is no joke. the theme is packed with goodies, extensions and all the necessary elements for your super podcasting page. premium audio and video player is included which supports all the devices, mobiles, tablets and desktops. basically, you do not have to worry about anything technical. it is all brought to you on the platter, you just need to put it to use. for the front page, you can choose between 3 predefined options. the first one is slider with embeds, the second slider with a link and the last one slider with lightbox. but this is only the quick option. at any time, you can create your own versions and individualize the theme how you fancy. viseo is also ecommerce ready and gives you total freedom regarding translating it into the language of your audience. more info / download demo life coach if you are laucnhing a coaching website, life coach wordpress theme is a great option for you. it comes ready with all sorts of elements, like testimonials, team members, videos, events calendar, online shop and, for us most important, podcast. along with all the content and learning material, life coaches also offer regular podcasts. it is a great option to reach your students while on the go or to guide them when listening. the theme comes with a podcast style post where you can feature as many shows as you would like. displaying podcast is possible with dedicated podcast archives and podcast category archives. you can also create stunning filterable podcast carousels which you can then add to any page you would like. life coach theme has predefined demos in store for you to speed up the developing and designing process. as always, use the one you prefer most as is or add your personal touch to it. customize it and make it stand out from the crowd. you can quickly start a blog where you can further promote your podcast episodes and grab the attention of search engines. to offer your readers even more, life coach is woocommerce ready. in total, life coach has more than 1,500 icons to choose from, is fully integrated with the wpbakery page builder and has you covered with a child theme. free lifetime updates, video tutorials, and pro-level support are all available to theme users. more info / download demo megabyte podcasts are becoming more and more popular and, chances are, you are running your own as well. if you came here, you are in need to create a website and take your project to new heights. to do so, all you need is a wordpress podcasting theme, megabyte, and you are nearly done. seriously, it takes you very little time and effort to complete the website you desire thanks to megabyte’s ready-made demo content, elements and components. megabyte comes with a stunning dark layout that will have everyone hooked. encourage them to listen to your podcasts by creating a superb slideshow using the integrated premium slider. moreover, megabyte is also 100% responsive and flexible, perfectly adapting to any device so they can listen to you on the go, whenever and wherever they want. more info / download demo castilo castilo is a dedicated wordpress podcasting theme with a modern web design that will easily stand the test of time. besides, castilo is updated on a regular and follows all the latest web and tech regulations to make sure your website runs smoothly at all times. while the default web design is already highly optimized and packed with goodies, you can modify castilo however you see it fit your podcasting project best. with barely any energy and no coding, you can adjust the look and make it your own. you can import external podcasts or submit your works to other platforms effortlessly. castilo also comes with in-depth statistic for you to know how your podcasts are doing, who is listening and who is downloading. in brief, castilo is a complete package to create a must-follow podcasting page. more info / download demo sonus sonus is a versatile wordpress theme for podcasts and audio projects. with this particular tool, you can bring into being a spectacular page that will take your podcast to an entirely new degree. you can create a genuine experience using sonus, from the web design and down to the custom player. no holding back when you take to your advantage this outstanding web design canvas. to implement your creativity to it, modify it or simply use it as-is for the fastest page launch possible. the design of sonus is pixel-perfect, fluid and in tune with web browsers, popular plugins and 3-rd party players. if you are a beginner, sonus has you covered as well. while it does not ask for any coding knowledge, you can still get the gist of it by flipping through documentation or hitting up the team of experts. more info / download demo writer while the writer theme is exclusive for writers and bloggers, podcasters find it interesting too. it is all due to the theme’s content sharing features which are fully compatible with the audio format. not only that, the design is very elegant, as well, which focuses on your magnificent content first. animations on the scroll are present, however, in just the right amount to make it even more fun to browse the page. writer’s three pre-made home pages help you quicken up the website building process. select the one that feels right for you, and it will help you save a ton of time that you would otherwise need for development. all there is you must do is to add content, alter the theme if demanded and you are ready to shine. installing, managing and updating writer theme will be easy as pie. of course, the product is responsive, touch-friendly and all section support swipe effect. in general, writer is not officially a wordpress podcasting theme, but you can still achieve fantastic results with it as a podcaster. you might be a writer or a blogger who would like to add an audio version of articles and book chapters to your site. by all means, feel free to do it. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. podcastingpodcasting themespodcastsvlogswordpress themes share this share tweet pin it share rokr rok is a professional content creator and an enthusiastic marketer who spends most of his day behind the screen, drinking coffee and listening to black metal. but he never misses a daily workout to get the blood flow going. he goes by the quote, "only a fool worries over what he can't control." related posts 20 finance & quick loans wordpress themes 2019 here you will find all the best quick loan wordpress themes for your lending company.… how to choose your perfect furniture woocommerce theme? hey guys! happy that you are reading this article. smart choice. we are sure it… 50 woocommerce themes for any online store do you have goods or services to sell? is not it the right time to… perfect blog wordpress theme according to your ruling planet if you are in a quest for a perfect blog wordpress theme this is a… 50+ jaw-dropping wordpress travel themes for travel agencies, hotels, hostels, vacation rentals, travel blogs and journals 2020 comprehensive list of wordpress travel themes suited for hotels, motels, spas, travel agencies, and another… 28 ultimate startup wordpress themes in 2020 for launching your startup’s website here you will find all the best and most popular startup wordpress themes. building a… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: top 21 lifestyle blog wordpress themes 2020 next post: 29 most popular wordpress entertainment themes for musicians, festivals and event managers 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×