skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » website design » 18 best comedy websites for standup comedians, comedy clubs inspiration 2020 18 best comedy websites for standup comedians, comedy clubs inspiration 2020 january 19, 2020 colorlib website design 0 comments whether you’re a standup comedian or a web designer working with comedy websites, this set of inspiration is indeed remarkable. so, have a glimpse of these websites and build or redesign yours with creativity and exceptional features. laughter is the best medicine. this popular adage has never lost its sense as laughter carries a lot of benefits to the body. accordingly, laughter is a great stress buster, a wonderful way to connect with people, effectively enhances job performance and even considered an immune booster. well, with such benefits, there’s no need to doubt the essence of the comedy industry. meanwhile, comedy is a genre of fiction that induces laughter in theatres, films, televisions, books or novels. however, with the advanced technology we’re having right now, it’s easier to set up a comedy website. thus, setting up a website even without coding skills is pretty quick and easy. thanks to the power of digital advancements building a website is just a few clicks away. if you haven’t completed your comedy website project yet, this inspiration will never fail to impress you. in this collection, you’ll find different comedians, comedy clubs that adapt to the popular and powerful digital marketing. additionally, you can also find various comedy websites that are crafted to bring fun and fabulous ice breakers to the audience. so, spare your time scrolling through the list and don’t miss the features you need to grab as inspiration. the interrobang if boredom strikes and you need entertainment, visiting a comedy website is a rescuer. the interrobang is a comedy website that’s worth checking. it’s a place to talk about “comedy in everything and everything in comedy”. the website utilizes a magazine layout that features stories and articles all about comedy. as posts are exhibited using thumbnails, they all look interesting and eye-catching. it has a simple and straightforward design of the homepage with sticky header to increase the reader’s retention. meanwhile, this website also integrates a sticky banner ad on the bottom of the screen for monetization purposes. preview cracked cracked is just one of the amazing comedy websites on this list. this america’s entertainment site is filled with funny videos, pics, articles and a whole bunch of funny stuff. apparently, it uses a cool and clean magazine layout for displaying the content. the homepage manifests numerous features that make the site user-friendly and impactful. basically, it uses a sticky header to keep navigation at hand while the social media icons on it never fail to do its part too. additionally, it also applies the amazing mega menu as an excellent choice for revealing more interesting pages. for the presentation of the articles, it utilizes the infinite scroll to provide an efficient way to browse data or images. also, the footer comes with the necessary elements it should have while keeping it neat and clean. preview sad and useless “the most depressive humor site on the internet” is the tagline of sad and useless website. on the contrary of its tagline, it gains popularity among other funny or comedy websites. as simple as it may seem, sad and useless provides humorous articles worldwide. its homepage is totally straightforward, giving the audience a glimpse of the latest articles it publishes. meanwhile, it also integrates various banner ads on different spots for monetization. certainly, photos are attention-grabbing and can easily convey the message clearly. hence, each post has quality images added to it so it will quickly deliver the messages at a glance. preview clickhole today, most people love to browse stories in the magazine online. this way, it’s easier to access the story or topic you wish to read in just a few clicks. for comedy websites, clickhole is a great inspiration to look into. it’s a satirical website that’s filled with clickable, shareable content anywhere on the internet. like most comedy websites in this list, it presents the content in a magazine layout. basically, each post comes with a thumbnail that makes it look engaging. also, this website integrates the banner ads too on different sizes and spots. as videos are also interesting and captivating, clickhole integrates irresistible videos too. other useful features include the off-canvas menu, sticky header, the social network icons, search and more. preview standup ny laughter is essential in everyone’s life. the famous proverb “laughter is the best medicine” wouldn’t be prominent at all if it wasn’t proved to be true. if you’re searching for ways to boost your career as a comedian, these comedy websites ensure a wonderful inspiration. standup ny is one of the new york’s premier comedy clubs. as it offers an exclusive comedy experience, its website is ever ready to cater to the needs of the audience. all over the homepage, web elements are arrayed with the clutter-free layout. the hero scene makes a gorgeous presentation with the use of sliders along with ctas, background images and headlines. specifically, this website enables the customer to get tickets with ease through the featured shows section. moreover, the testimonials also look superb with another cool slider on it. preview new york comedy club one of the ways to improve your creative thinking is to have humor. well, comedians are great entertainers, they can always amuse the crowd with their exuberance. so, don’t miss these comedy websites if you need more inspiration in crafting your own. new york comedy club is ready to share its simple but engaging website. it utilizes a dark tone design with a black background and white typography. in addition, the red buttons all over the homepage also look stunning and lively. as it implements a nice slider on the hero scene, content is highlighted nicely too. for the presentation of the upcoming shows, it uses tabs with social media icons on it. specifically, in this section, the visitor can easily buy tickets for a certain comedian on the list. it also has a simple header and footer with the important elements in each section. preview manhattan comedy school icebreakers are one of the timeless schemes that can break the barrier between workers. as a matter of fact, it can help build a relationship in the workplace effectively. no need to wonder why manhattan comedy school is established to offer much more than just training in comedy. they provide opportunities for students to continue to perform and hone their newfound skills. with that goal in mind, its website is ready to advertise its brand across the world. the homepage is totally impressive, clean and professional-looking. embracing the power of white space, all elements look remarkable and are truly comprehensible. the hero is a simple but engaging design – a tagline, the name of the school, descriptive cta and an image background. if there’s a powerful tool to encourage the audience with the brand’s capacity, it would be the real testimonials. well, with this website, each testimonial is valued as they’re presented neatly and elegantly. preview dj andrew mcclelland comedians bring humor and definitely induce laughter in films, theatres and plays. such are the best places that they can hone well their skills. these comedy websites can either inspire you to craft your own or redesign your boring and unappealing website. dj andrew mcclelland is a spectacular dj, mc and comedian since 2005. he has pleaded at fine parties, gigs at events, clubs and weddings all over the world. plus, with the power of digital marketing, his website is a great exhibit of his credibility. specifically, the great moments are showcased on the hero scene where it looks magnificent with the slider. furthermore, the testimonials also are attractive with black background in white typography. what’s more? it’s, even more, appealing with the integration of gsap animation. preview dave hughes a great sense of humor is a skill that will definitely unlock more opportunities for a comedian. and with the digital advancements in this modern age, reaching more clients is much possible. dave hughes is one of australia’s most popular and successful stand-up comedians. his website has a comprehensive design that’s ready to make his career boost. apparently, the homepage is loaded with important elements it needs to shine in the competition. that’s not all, this website also embraces gsap animation as a cool addition to the overall website design. particularly, you can find in the site useful ctas, nice slider, neat and properly labeled form, social media integration, and other outstanding features. other pages of the site include gallery, news, audio/video, tour dates and more. preview daniel connel humor can break the tension barrier in the workplace. it’s even a great stress reliever too. that’s why more people love to spend time on entertainment shows for quite good laughs. if you’re in this profession, these comedy websites will be interesting to delve into. daniel connel is an aussie comedian with a greater passion for comedy. his website has a simple design but it is definitely worth checking. it has a full-screen design of the homepage where essential web elements are visible. apparently, it displays daniel’s photo, a simple menu, a tagline, and the social media icons to connect with the comedian in no time! specifically, the other pages are well structured such as the gig, podcast, video, bio, reviews and more. preview joel creasey unlock opportunities for your comedy career as you create exceptional websites to show off your credibility. joel creasey is one of australia’s most-popular, acclaimed and charmingly controversial stand-up comedians. he’s an unstoppable force and is a crown prince of aussie comedy. with such outstanding titles, his website is as wonderful as much. embracing the striking smooth slider on the header, it makes a great introduction of the comedian. it also offers a soft copy of its latest ebook and a hard copy too. as social media is becoming a powerful tool to promote one’s reputation, this website embraces the impactful social media integration such as twitter and instagram. other pages also contain exceptional content including videos, photos, shows, bio and books. preview lehmo don’t dare miss these funny and interesting comedy websites for a remarkable inspiration in your next project. whether you’re a comedian trying to build your own portfolio for branding or compiling funny or humorous articles this set is just irresistible. lehmo is one of australia’s most experienced and well-traveled comedians. he is known for his excellent skill in corporate comedy, radio host, panelist on very popular network 10 news comedy programs and more. his website is a good manifestation of professional and creative design. apparently, the hero header is quite unique and impressive with the comedian’s photo, his name and a little introduction of himself. in addition, the rest of the content on the homepage is well structured which complements the white space all over it. you can find here the testimonials in a slider, featured news in masonry layout, simple contact form and more. preview improv once in awhile, we need to spend time in places where we can laugh out loud. in this way, we can get away from the hustles and bustles of life. thanks to the talented comedians all over the world, we can have places to experience amusement. here’s improv, a comedy website where people can hire comedians at ease. particularly, it has a visually appealing design of the homepage perfect for the presentation of the content with style. on the hero header, the slider highlights various comedians’ upcoming shows in different venues. just below the header is a simple but elegant display of upcoming weekend shows displayed using card design in different states in america. check out other useful features of this website! preview second city here’s another spectacular design of comedy website that is a genuine inspiration for comedians and other humor related websites. the homepage is loaded with essential features and elements that can add elegance and sophistication to the design. the hero header looks attractive with the bold and white typography on a filtered background image. it also integrates a cool search for upcoming shows so it’s easier for a visitor to purchase tickets. specifically, this website exhibits popular shows through the use of a sleek slider. furthermore, it also showcases the world’s premier school of comedy with a monochrome background image too. other notable features include the social network icons, clean news section, off-canvas menu and so much more. preview boston comedy chicks laughter makes a person look younger. no wonder why numerous comedy shows and more comedians are coming out to make the audience laugh out loud. if you’re working with a website for a comedian, this list is pretty useful. boston comedy chicks features standup comedian shows, workshops, masterclasses and special events. with its website, clients can easily book a ticket for upcoming shows. specifically, it welcomes the audience with a slider that highlights different services, and where live shows can be joined. it also integrates the social icons on the header so it’s easier to connect with the firm when they need such services. preview jbs moove feast your eyes with these exceptional designs of comedian’s website to help you redesign yours with style. smoove is a writer as well as a comedian and actor. he has the passion to entertain audiences all over the world with his unique brand of comedic funk. his website is designed with elegance and full of life. from smooth parallax effect, cool word rotator effect, cool hover effects and other features this website is a good inspiration to examine. obviously, on the site can be viewed the various videos of the previous shows this comedian has successfully performed. it also integrates the social media icons with corresponding posts displayed through a slider. preview lit comedy another inspiring comedy website that you should dare not miss is this lit comedy. since most brands and professionals have websites to promote their products and services, comedians must embrace this effective strategy too. lit comedy is a one-stop-shop for all comedy needs. it’s definitely passionate about comedy that promises to bring more laughter in 2020. having a great goal to achieve, its website is ready to help grow its reach worldwide. basically, it uses a dark background to make the content stand out. having red as its primary color, most of the elements are easy to comprehend. on the homepage is the list of upcoming events that the audience can have a glimpse with. it also introduces its firm on a striking section with a super clean layout. preview trevor noah who says that comedians don’t need a creative and innovative website? well, as long as you have a goal to achieve, you don’t have to ignore the power of digital marketing on your career advancement. trevor noah’s website is here to inspire you to create a clean and minimalist website. he is one of the most successful comedians based on africa. certainly dedicated to his passion, he crafted his website with the clearness of purpose – that is to spread awareness of his awesome skills in comedy. the hero header comes with various features with descriptive ctas added to it such as the “buy the book”, “watch on netflix”, “listen now” and “buy tickets”. the social media icons on the header also provide ease in connecting with the comedian on social media platforms. preview thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. comediancomedycomedy clubhumorwebsite examples share this share tweet pin it share related posts 18 best chiropractic websites for design inspiration 2020 no matter what your profession is, a great website can effectively promote your brand and… 18 best funeral websites for inspiration 2020 take a look at these funeral websites we’ve handpicked for your upcoming website design. this… 19 best art websites for artists and online art galleries 2019 are you an artist who wishes to build an online presence? do you think that… 18 best actor website design inspiration for actors, actresses and talent agencies 2020 building a website is an important centerpiece of digital marketing. indeed, it’s a powerful tool… 19 best veterinary websites for veterinarians 2019 the perks of having pets are beyond measure. typically, they are a great source of… 20 best gaming blog designs for inspiration 2019 need inspiration for gaming blog designs? we have selected the best and most popular gaming… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 18 best gym websites design inspiration 2020 next post: 18 best landscaping website designs for landscapers and groundkeepers inspiration 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×