skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 18 paid wordpress affiliate plugins for business growth 2020 18 paid wordpress affiliate plugins for business growth 2020 march 26, 2020 rokr plugins 3 comments instead of searching through the web all on your own, find the most refined paid wordpress affiliate plugins all in one place. we managed to gather quite a few great solutions for your business growth. still, it is great to know which would fit your website and business best. after all, you can apply a referral program to almost any project, whether that is selling physical products, digital downloads, or offering services. you will also find this post useful if you are a marketer who is in to start earning commissions for each sale or lead you generate. just about anyone wants to push their products and services by taking advantage of affiliate marketing. there are many ways to make it happen. you can sign up with an online marketplace like clickbank, or you can do it on your own. to be frank, if you would like to earn the most, avoid “another middleman” and start your own referral program. you will soon find out how easy and efficient it is to set up a paid wordpress affiliate plugin. it all happens within your wordpress admin. no matter if you are just starting out or an established business already, implementing performance marketing into your business would be a wise decision to make. it does not even have to be expensive since there are quite some free wordpress affiliate plugins available. however, when things get serious, you should upgrade with a paid option. new possibilities open for your business to surpass the initial revenue goal sooner rather than later. get familiar with paid wordpress affiliate plugins, and see which would work best for you. we tried to cover as many of your needs as possible. saying that, you might just find the ideal tool you are looking for in the collection below. affiliatewp to enhance the potential of your business, affiliatewp is the one plugin that will surely make it happen for you. even if you are satisfied with where you are at with your project at the moment, why are you plateauing? since you’ve come to this level, you know deep down that you can achieve way more. as mentioned earlier, the referral program is one incredible way to grow your business day after day. the more affiliates you recruit, the bigger the possibilities. to kick it off, though, only one marketer can mean a big change in your revenue. installing affiliatewp is quick, the tracking is precise, and real-time reporting is very helpful. see how well your affiliates perform, the visits, the earnings, the new affiliate registrations, and more. there is no set amount of marketers that can sign up for your program and promote your products. the more, the better. offer affiliates a wide selection of promotional material and text links that they can have access to at any time. save them time and work so they can start pushing your site right away. you can approve new affiliates manually or enable the automatic affiliate account creation feature. there are many add-ons available, which makes affiliatewp very flexible. they allow the plugin to meet the requirements of a range of business owners and help them to reach new successes. more info / download demo wordpress automatic plugin when picking paid wordpress affiliates plugins, our aim is to cover both businesses and bloggers, aka affiliates. for a complete automatization of your blog, use wordpress automatic plugin, which blogs for you on autopilot. set up a few parameters, and the plugin does all the work for you. it can post for you articles, videos, texts, tweets, reddits, you name it. there is also a module called single scraper that comes with the plugin, which scrapes just parts of the website. this can be weather forecasts, horoscope, and similar others. you just add the url, select the section you would like to have on your page, and let wordpress automatic plugin run. you can also auto-post products from amazon, clickbank, envato, and walmart. wordpress automatic plugin searches for products related to your keywords, posts them, and even adds your affiliate links to them. again, it is all on autopilot. if you are using woocommerce on your wordpress website, wap can also beautifully blend amazon products with the e-commerce plugin for you to “sell” them on your page. there are video tutorials available to show you how to post from different sites to your blog using wordpress automatic plugin. the plugin also comes with free dedicated support for fixing any issues you may come across. are you ready to get your blog running and publishing new content without doing much work? more info / download demo magic affiliate a simple and convenient approach to building a powerful affiliate program in minutes time, magic affiliate comes with all the features a webmaster or a business owner needs to start attracting new affiliates and signing them to the program. it is also compatible with plugins like woocommerce, magic members, and wp e-commerce. increasing sales has never been easier. after installing and activating magic affiliate, you can start editing it. it is as easy as it sounds. with the user-friendly interface, managing and maintaining your referral program will be pain-free. plus, you will not have to use a single line of code to edit with completing particular tasks. with the technical part sorted, you can start right away without spending extra on hiring a coder. magic affiliate displays real-time statistics with no delays and allows whatever amount of affiliate marketers you would like to enroll. optional signup bonuses and recurring commissions are also possible with magic affiliate. last but definitely not the least, there’s integration with shopping carts. start seeing massive earnings that were previously unimaginable. boost your business to the level of “impossible.” more info / download demo woocommerce amazon affiliates for those who already saw some success with amazon or those who are just starting out, woocommerce amazon affiliates is a great tool for both. it features a whole bunch of modules to give you a wide range of options for your yet-to-be lucrative wordpress website. start from scratch to build a website using woocommerce wordpress themes, or implement it into your existing page. the woocommerce amazon affiliates plugin comes with the recommendation module for you to quickly find similar products. for instance, are you selling fishing rods? if so, the amazon recommendation section will display recommendations based on your keyword. one fantastic feature of woocommerce amazon affiliates is the pagespeed optimization module. it detects which products decrease your site speed and which do not have any effect on it. there are four scores that each product gets ranked with: a, b, c, and d (a being the best and d being the worst). if an amazon product you import gets a d, it means it contains a lot of information. this could be images, variants, categories, etc. it helps you further optimize the product so your site keeps on loading exceptionally fast. meanwhile, with a and b products, you are pretty much good to go. more info / download demo wordpress & woocommerce affiliate program if you own a product, service or software that you would like to take to the next level, create an affiliate program and let others help you market it. for each sale or conversion your affiliates make, you pay them a commission and the rest is history. just one solid affiliate can mean a complete difference in your total revenue. anyhow, to create such program, all you need is the wordpress & woocommerce affiliate program plugin. it is all in the package, saving you a ton of time and effort when it comes to creating a sophisticated affiliate program. when it comes to features, this paid wordpress affiliate plugin has quite a bunch. from unlimited affiliate and signup bonuses to commission limits, coupons, dynamic rules and paypal payouts to name a few, it is all there. as for the commissions, the plugin has three different options; fixed price, percentage-based, as well as a mix of the two. now you know where to start when building your own affiliate program. more info / download demo sumo affiliates pro sumo affiliates pro is a feature-rich premium wordpress affiliate plugin with all and everything that you need when in need to implement an affiliate program into your business. by offering an affiliate program, you add another layer of marketing and revenue to your business which can skyrocket it to the moon and then mars. let your affiliates do the promotion for you while you focus 110% on fine-tuning your offer and make it better and better. the features of sumo affiliates pro plugin are very many. first and foremost, there are over fifty modules and integrations you can take to your advantage. moreover, it creates a powerful account management system that helps affiliates manage and maintain their accounts effortlessly. additional goodies come in the form of affiliate fees, notifications, pretty affiliate links, referrals, qr codes and social promotion. it is all in the bundle, easy to use for everyone to employ sumo affiliates pro to its full potential. more info / download demo aapro would you like to become an amazon affiliate? if that is in your interest, aapro is the paid wordpress affiliate plugin that you need. the tool brings to the table a ton of options and possibilities to get you started right away. without the need to have any prior experience, you can start earning commissions for every sale you make. with all the innovative and professional features, working with aapro is a dream come true. instead of doing the hard work yourself, let the machine do the magic and kick off your project in little to no time. from over ten modules, unlimited design options and auto import to in-depth analytics, on-site cart and multiple search methods, aapro has it all and a whole bunch more. according to the official statement, all it takes is a five minute set up and you are ready to roll. if that is not quick, i do not know what is. enjoy the power of aapro and become the next amazon affiliate success. more info / download demo azonberg when you put together amazon and gutenberg in one word, you get azonberg. this paid wordpress affiliate plugin works flawlessly with the new gutenberg block builder. out of the box, you get a simple tool that creates a new feature in your gutenberg editor. you can now seamlessly embed amazon products anywhere on your website or blog. to get the gist of it, feel free to first go through the documentation and watch handy how-to videos. you will immediately see how simple adding products, even entire lists, actually is. azonberg features direct checkout or add to cart features with a ninety days cookie policy. what’s more, the azonberg template is 100% customizable, making sure it fluently adapts to your website’s theme. also, azonberg supports all the major amazon global affiliate programs for your convenience. more info / download demo gutensearch searching and embedding amazon products to your websites just became a piece of cake. with gutensearch, a dedicate wordpress affiliate plugin for gutenberg, you can make it happen in a breeze. it is also very advantageous and straightforward to use, perfect for beginners and expert users. once you install and activate the plugin, you will see a new block appear in the gutenberg editor which you put into play when adding amazon products to your web space. key features of gutensearch are two types of checkouts, no api keys, commissions from global amazon affiliate programs and even customer search feature. as far as the latter goes, yes, your users can hunt for the products with the simple search feature integration. last but not least, you can fine-tune the layout according to your needs or just stick to the default one. more info / download demo cbomatic many out there are interested in becoming a clickbank affiliate. if you would like to import products to your website and start earning commissions of the sales and conversions you make, cbomatic will do the trick. this wordpress affiliate plugin is a powerful, yet simple to use, tool that will help you monetize your website or blog further. all you need to do is to set some rules and let cbomatic do the work for you. as simple as it sounds! for instance, set a preferred keyword and let cbomatic do the product search on auto-pilot. other practical features of cbomatic are google translate and text spinner support, automatic featured image generation and a scheduled rule run. you can also enable or disable comments, manually add categories and tags to products, as well as modify titles and content. one tool is all you need to start banking on clickbank items. more info / download demo apo to have complete control over your amazon products on your website or blog, apo is the wordpress affiliate plugin to go with. let the tool automatically take care of everything for you, checking the availability of the products and more. no matter how many products you are pushing with your website, apo handles them all with ease. in addition to that, it is also compatible with other affiliate plugins for smooth integration. some of the features that come with apo are click counter, email notifications for product availability, gutenberg blocks and an option to use apo’s shortcode inside of a shortcode. moreover, the plugin also comes compatible with all amazon international websites and already comes translated into spanish. get the ball rolling with apo and never again worry about the amazon product availability. more info / download demo gproducts with the right tools, adding amazon products to pages and posts happens in a little breeze. thanks to gproducts, you can now create beautiful and conversion-driven product boxes with all the necessary information about the item. first and foremost, you can use gproducts to create as many product boxes as you want – there is no limitation to that. keep in mind, you can also style and improve the design, so that it matches your theme precisely. what’s cool about gproducts is that you do not need an api key to make it work. you can find products by asin or keyword, which makes the whole process swift and convenient. you can even introduce an add to cart button, which indeed adds the product directly to the user’s amazon shopping cart. enjoy all the fantastic features of gproducts and take your amazon affiliate business to another degree. more info / download demo learnomatic udemy is a highly popular learning platform where you can, well, learn pretty much anything. and today, you can push udemy’s courses on your website by utilizing the amazing and simple to use learnomatic. this wordpress affiliate plugin specializes on everything udemy. keep in mind, you can get up to 40% in comissions of any course that you sell. how about that? whether you plan to start an educational blog or it just seems fitting, adding a udemy course in the context of your content, with learnomatic, you can save yourself plenty of time and energy. with learnomatic, you can actually create posts with courses on autopilot. once you set up the configurations, it is learnomatic’s job to take care of the rest. of course, you can also further style and improve each post, making it even more appealing to the user. but first, feel free to test learnomatic out first-hand and go from there. more info / download demo ultimate affiliate pro wordpress plugin if it is called “ultimate,” then it must be the most advanced ever. you will soon realize why the ultimate affiliate pro wordpress plugin is called the big u. if you are a product or a service owner who would like to spread the business across as many affiliates as possible, this plugin will make it happen for you with surprising ease. let marketers do the promotion for you and pay them a commission for each sale they generate. you can even set individual rewards for those who are bringing in the most deals to hype them up. it is a marketing strategy that costs very little investment up front. another positive thing about affiliate programs is that you can offer separate commissions to affiliates who refer other affiliates, or multilevel marketing, aka mlm. this way, you all win big time. the ultimate affiliate pro wordpress plugin sports numerous excellent features for your program to be of the highest standard. along with a ton of other goodies, your affiliates can earn extra with the commissions the affiliates they referred to you make. the plugin is translation-ready, allows you to set your own currencies, and supports both paypal and stripe as payment methods. more info / download demo aliexpress dropshipping business plugin for woocommerce with a solid plugin, affiliates and those interested in starting a dropshipping business can import products from aliexpress into your woocommerce store in a breeze. avoid doing it manually, and save a ton of time, which you can rather spend promoting your webshop and bringing in more traffic. when importing products, you can offer shoppers variants of the items—different colors, sizes, and materials—so they can find exactly what they are looking for. you can have the product available just like they appear on aliexpress. this does not go only for the products. include the same shipping options, too. before you go live, filter the content the plugin imported for you by phrases that you can set manually. furthermore, you can modify all the items you would like to include in your shop as you fancy. change the title, images, descriptions, and anything you want to make them follow your web design style and niche in general. additionally, you can import reviews from aliexpress to build trust and boost sales. use aliexpress dropship for woocommerce as a dropshipper, or use the affiliate key and become a marketplace’s referral. choose the path that works best for you, and let the plugin do the dull labor for you. more info / download demo content egg are you running a price comparison or any other deal-like site but need to find a solution on how to monetize it? then, indeed, you probably need a solid paid wordpress affiliate plugin called content egg. it is an all-in-one solution to make your lives a lot simpler. with content egg, you can now implement into your page what all the top comparison sites are using, and you do not need to spend huge budgets. heck, you do not even need to hire a coder. you can do it all on your own with a user-friendly, yet advanced, tool. start making money online with content egg. adding products to your site with content egg from other affiliate systems is easy. all you need is a keyword. it helps you to update prices automatically as well, so you do not have to worry doing it manually. there are price drop alerts for products available with price history graphs. you can see how the prices vary over time, or maybe they never really change. the plugin is fully compatible with woocommerce and comes with product synchronization. content egg also features an auto blog option. after adding additional content to your posts on auto pilot, you just need to edit the results—another big time saver. more info / download demo sumo affiliates creating a woocommerce affiliate system is a piece of cake with sumo affiliates. you can import it into any kind of woocommerce website you are running and start benefiting from it. spend for the promotion only when an actual sale comes in. with an affiliate marketing, you can avoid paid advertising and focus only on the referrers with a your-niche-targeted audience. what could be better than that? it is a safe strategy that you will not have a hard time setting up and implementing into your business. powerful wordpress affiliate plugins, like sumo affiliates, do the majority of work for you. let machines do the job for you while you focus on refining your products, services, and business scale. sumo affiliates comes with a front-end affiliate submission form, a separate dashboard for affiliates, and a referral link generator. sometimes, a marketer wants to send traffic only to a specific product (or section of the website). by using sumo affiliates, you can set the validity of the cookie and restrict it based on the purchase history. multilevel affiliate marketing is also possible, and the plugin is fully translatable. this is one tool to cover all your needs. more info / download demo optinmonster no questions asked; it is very rewarding to have an engaging subscription box ready on your website. for webmasters with affiliate programs and bloggers who use referral marketing to monetize their websites, building a newsletter is almost a must. just imagine how much more promotion you can do when having a big list of subscribers. not only that; you can also interact with everyone who subscribed to your newsletter and get on a more personal level with them. it allows you to build trust and turns them into loyal customers, especially those who did not even plan to buy anything from you in the first place and left your page early. use a beautiful popup to appear on their screens that they cannot resist so that they will be encouraged to enter their emails and to press the subscribe button. one of the popup plugins for your wordpress website that will help you start building your newsletter is optinmonster. if you have not introduced a plugin like this to your website yet, you are leaving a lot of money on the table. many customers need two or three additional promotions of the same product or service to finally make the purchase, some even more! that said, even if they do not buy on their first visit, by sending them compelling newsletters, you can persuade them to purchase from you. with optinmonster, you have your overall lead generation process sorted. build branded subscription boxes with an easy drag-and-drop builder, or you can use predefined designs, perform small tweaks, and have it ready in no time. moreover, you can also create simple yes/no forms to further increase conversions and sales. most importantly, you get to track everything and execute split tests to see what works best. more info / download thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. affiliateplugins share this share tweet pin it share rokr rok is a professional content creator and an enthusiastic marketer who spends most of his day behind the screen, drinking coffee and listening to black metal. but he never misses a daily workout to get the blood flow going. he goes by the quote, "only a fool worries over what he can't control." related posts 16 must-have buddypress plugins for online communities 2020 wordpress serves as a platform for many different kinds of websites, including social networking sites.… top 20 adsense plugins for wordpress to maximize revenue 2020 google adsense will always remain as a safe option for generating extra income with your… the best wordpress pdf viewer plugins 2020 when you run a blog or a website, there likely will be many instances when… the best 18 wordpress autoblogging plugins 2020 if you're managing a blog, you'll be aware how difficult it is to post fresh… 10 plugins to stop ad blockers on your wordpress website 2020 advertisers and the advertising industry, in general, are in quite a pickle right now. the… the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2019 any person who is marketing any product or service online understands the value of an… this post has 3 comments john says: at hi, i wonder if there is a plugin that can open results of an affiliate search form (search mask) inside the website (e.g. through an iframe). thank you reply aigars says: at unfortunately, i’m not aware of any such plugin. reply daniela says: at interesting tools to use! will have to try some of them. thank you! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: top 20 adsense plugins for wordpress to maximize revenue 2020 next post: 22 fantastic wordpress booking plugins 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×