wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 19 best mobile apps to manage your wordpress site 19 best mobile apps to manage your wordpress site last updated on january 15th, 2018 by editorial staff 210 shares share tweet share pin are you looking for mobile apps to manage your wordpress site on the go? running a successful website requires a lot of time, and its hard to sit in front of a computer all day. in this article, we will share the best mobile apps to manage your wordpress site using your phone. 1. wordpress.com apps wordpress.com offers apps that connect to your self-hosted wordpress site. you can create posts, upload photos, and moderate comments from your android or ios devices. certain features of the app require you to create a wordpress.com account. it also comes with a built-in reader that shows the blogs you have followed on wordpress.com. for detailed instructions, see our guide on how to use wordpress app on your mobile devices. 2. woocommerce if you run an online store using woocommerce, then you can use the woocommerce app for ios to manage your store on the go. the app offers a beautiful interface to view your store performance such as orders and sales. it is not the replacement for the desktop version as it lacks in terms of features. however, it is pretty useful to look at orders even when you are away from a computer. 3. google analytics google analytics is the most powerful and free analytics tool available for website owners. it allows you to answer questions like – how many people visit your website? – where they come from? – what they do while visiting your website? if you are not already using it, then see our step by step guide on how to install google analytics in wordpress. google analytics app allows you to view your site reports using your mobile device. it allows you to create and view custom reports. you can select date ranges and view real time reports. 4. evernote ideas for great blog posts, products, or strategies can appear out of no where. evernote allows you to take notes using your mobile device, and it syncs across all your devices. you can create to-do lists, draw doodles, take notes, save pictures, bookmarks, and videos. evernote works on all mobile platforms, pcs, and mac. alternatives: google keep | onenote 5. pingdom pingdom is a popular website uptime monitoring service. you can set it up to monitor one site’s uptime for free. pingdom’s mobile apps alert you when your site is down. it also shows you the status of your website and the services you are monitoring. 6. buffer buffer allows you to schedule posts for your social media profiles. their mobile apps allow you to do that from anywhere using your mobile device. you can view the posts you have queued, posts you have shared, analytics, and add new content on the go. it helps you keep your followers engaged even when you are away from your desk. 7. ifttt ifttt allows you make internet work for you. the ifttt mobile app brings that power to your mobile devices. you can use it as a monitoring tool, automate your workflow, and get instant notifications. aside from wordpress, it also works with many other online services and tools. it even allows you to automate your smart home and office. take a look at our tutorial on how to automate wordpress and social media with ifttt for more details. 8. feedly feedly is a smart and modern feed reader. using the feedly app on your mobile phone, you can stay in touch with your favorite news sources, blogs, and websites. you can also organize your favorite websites into different topics as collections. feedly also makes it easy to share your articles directly from the app. 9. facebook pages manager the easiest way to boost activity on your facebook pages is by engaging with your audience. facebook pages manager allows you to do manage your pages more efficiently. it shows you notifications and activities from your facebook pages. you can also view reports on how well your posts are doing. most importantly you can publish posts, upload photos, and respond to comments. need more facebook tips? see our list of best facebook tips and tutorials for wordpress users 10. facebook ads manager facebook ads allow you to retarget website visitors on facebook. if you are using them right, then you can easily boost your page likes several times over. facebook ads manager app allows you to view reports, create ads, and manage your ads from mobile devices. 11. inbox by google as a wordpress site owner, you will get a lot of email notifications for comments, updates, and contact form notifications. inbox by google allows you to clean up your inbox quickly. this smart email client automatically bundles your emails into groups and allows you to easily mark them as done. it also reduces notifications by only notifying you for important emails, and it is pretty good at guessing which emails are important. 12. google drive google drive offers you free storage for all your files. more importantly, it allows you to access those files from anywhere on any device. alternatives: dropbox | onedrive 13. google authenticator passwords can be easily cracked by hackers, and it makes your wordpress site vulnerable. adding two step verification protects your wordpress site against hacking attempts. google authenticator app helps you add two step verification to many applications including your wordpress site. see our guide on how to add two step verification with google authenticator in wordpress. see our ultimate wordpress security guide to further improve your website security. 14. google adsense google adsense provides an easy way to make money for small websites and blogs. if you are already using google adsense to serve ads on your wordpress site, then google adsense app is a great companion for you. the app provides you with an overview of your adsense account. it gives you instant access to detailed earning reports on all key metrics. 15. paypal if you run an online store, then paypal mobile app is a must have app. you can see all your paypal activity from your mobile devices. you can also make payments, transfer balance from paypal to your bank account, and much more. 16. lastpass you should always use strong passwords for all your accounts including your wordpress site. however, it is not possible to remember all those difficult passwords. lastpass makes it easier to manage all your passwords, so that you don’t have to remember passwords anymore. it works on desktop, browsers, and even on your mobile. for more details, see our guide on how to manage passwords for wordpress beginners. 17. pomodoro timer as a business owner, you may find it difficult to concentrate on one task at a time. this is where pomodoro timer comes in. the pomodoro technique is a time management method. it uses a timer to break down work into intervals, separated by small breaks. our ceo, syed balkhi, has written a great post on how to use time-blocking. alternate versions: pomodoro timer for ios | pomodoro timer for google chrome 18. ia writer writing on mobile devices is particularly difficult. the screen size is too small, and its painful to slide up and down. ia writer makes it easier to write on mobile devices and makes it a pleasant experience. it comes with a clean clutter free and intuitive ui which helps you work on long articles from your mobile devices. most importantly you can connect the app to your wordpress site and publish or save drafts directly. 19. trello whether you are an individual blogger or a team, getting things done requires discipline and organization. trello helps you collaborate, manage, and organize your workflow. trello is a productivity app for individuals as well as teams. it uses boards, lists, and cards to organize tasks in a fun and rewarding way. that’s all for now. we hope this list helped you find some new apps to manage your wordpress site on the go. you may also want to see our list of 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 210 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to start your own podcast (step by step) revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 9 commentsleave a reply anjanadhanvi says: jun 27, 2019 at 6:42 am thanks for this post.i need nore details for woocommerce? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 27, 2019 at 11:08 am for an article that covers woocommerce more, you would want to take a look at our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-start-an-online-store/ reply barden says: may 30, 2019 at 8:54 am hi guys which wordpress app can i use to answer users questions on our website blog? reply wpbeginner support says: may 30, 2019 at 10:31 am if the questions are in comments then you could use the wordpress.com created apps. reply gary west says: jan 30, 2019 at 1:50 am well most of the apps you mentioned, i’m not using. your blog convinced me to install and try. good blog. keep posting. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 30, 2019 at 11:12 am thank you reply tare says: jun 17, 2018 at 9:37 am i recently created a blog for a client and made them an admin user. but they cant access the site through the wordpress app? how can i make them post directly with the app without login on through web? reply asween says: nov 5, 2016 at 1:30 am all apps are very good i will definitely install all apps in my mobile and will get benefits from it. reply carla hufstedler says: nov 1, 2016 at 11:49 am what do you recommend for blogging apps on the mac? i tried bloggo, and it changed all my tags to categories, which was not fun to remedy. i am test-driving mars edit and like it, but it is 39.95, and i can’t help remembering the old days when it was substantially less and did most of the same (i’m old ). there seems to be a wide dearth between free and 40.00. i will pay for mars edit if i must, because i need an alternative to the built-in wordpress browser interface. what other good candidates am i missing? thank you! reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.