skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » website design » 19 best electrician website designs inspiration 2019 19 best electrician website designs inspiration 2019 december 26, 2019 colorlib website design 0 comments professional individuals need the power of digital marketing to stand out in their respective industries. hence, as a brand, always opt for an excellent design of a website. similarly, electricians need to strive for exceptional websites to enhance web presence. here’s a magnificent list of electrician website designs that you can use for your web design projects. have a glimpse of these useful inspirations and pick the best electrician website design. in this modern world where the life of man is greatly influenced by advanced technology, electricity is definitely a demand. typically, electricity can perform a range of tasks and powers numerous electrical devices, machines and equipment. as a matter of fact, it has become the most convenient and is greatly flexible compared to other energies. accordingly, the electrical industry reveals strong growth with new construction activities and renovations in different locations. particularly, electrical system installations in residential and commercial structures are prevalent. consequently, electricians should have a web presence to excel in the industry. with such tool, electricians can have the best marketing asset that will effectively promote the brand’s services. here are some of the finest electrician website designs that will help unleash creativity. with these websites, you have ample ideas on how to finalize your design and retain user-friendliness. so, pay attention, distinguish and don’t miss the essential elements you can implement to your project. rio electric accordingly, the website is one of the effective and relevant marketing assets for one’s business. hence, the website design should not compromise user-friendliness and functionality. rio electric is an electrician website design that will serve as inspiration for branding and marketing. it has a creative and elegant design of the homepage. specifically, the hero scene utilizes a slider to highlight a few stunning images of their previous electrical services. guaranteed to provide quality, honest and affordable services to clients, rio electric introduces its brand with beautiful typography, outstanding images and of course ctas. moreover, it included the reviews page to showcase testimonials and improve business credibility. preview hall electrical with 15+ years of experience in professional and quality electrical services, hall electrical is ready to shine in the electrical industry with its modern and elegant electrician website design. its homepage is a great display of images and essential elements. it embraces a sleek slider on the hero scene displaying some of the quality works and great headlines. since it is important that your website must represent your brand, hall electrical showcases its portfolio and services in a simple but comprehensive manner. specifically, services are clearly presented with commercial and residential categories. moreover, the animated counter that cites the success indicators to help inspire a good first impression is seamless and straightforward too. preview stay wired electrical dedicated to providing superior solutions to electrical problems, stay wired electrical has a simple but resourceful electrician website design. its website is built to provide ease in reaching the business’s electrical services. particularly, the hero scene looks great with its parallax effect not to mention the captivating ctas and request for service form. in order to distinguish services from other brands, this website displays icons and short descriptions in columns. what’s more? the reviews section also has a striking design with the parallax effect it implements. of course, the services section is also vital to the brand’s exposure, so it clearly presents such a feature in a clean and neat manner. preview atkins electric electrical installation, repair and maintenance can be unsafe for inexperienced individuals to engage with. and in this modern era where electrical services is a demand, electricians are indeed valuable. atkins electric is ready to shine with its amazing electrician website design. it has a magnificent hero scene having seamless grayscale images as background image along with animated geometric shapes. to give more distinction between this brand and other electricians, this website presents outstanding benefits such as quick response time, licensed electricians, years of experience and award-winning services in a creative way. the hover effect and animation upon scrolling also adds elegance to the design. preview green electrical committed to provide customer service and satisfaction when it comes to electrical design and installation, green electrical never fails to impress potential clients with its exceptional electrician website design. the homepage looks totally creative and elegant with the animation upon scrolling, quality images and good typography. apparently, the content all looks organized and striking with thumbnails added on them and the application of visual hierarchy. as its name implies, this website uses green as its primary color which stands out with a clean and white background. it also showcase its portfolio in a captivating way using a grid layout. in addition, it integrates the testimonials section that is seamless with a smooth slider. preview mister sparky whether it’s residential or commercial structures, electricians can light up the darkness effectively and safely. since most businesses are having a website for branding and marketing, electricians must have similarly. mister sparky has a creative and innovative design of the homepage. in particular, this website consistently utilizes a parallelogram in different web elements. it embraces bold typography and clear images to convey the brand’s message across the web. each of the sections on the homepage reveals creativity in different ways. to explore the services, mister sparky applies gsap animation to reveal the content using light effects upon hover. other notable features are the animation upon scrolling, video integration, accessibility feature and more. preview graham cottingham high quality and safety electrical services are only guaranteed by experienced and adept electricians. yet, with the digital marketing tools that exist today, it’s best to have a website that will help you open greater opportunities for your business 24/7. graham cottingham has a clean and minimalist electrician website design. since the homepage is the most important page that can make or break the visitor’s impression, it should always be clutter-free. with this website, an organized display of content is apparent. the hero header has a simple image background with a headline and brief introduction. the team section looks elegant with a grayscale tone while the services section uses simple buttons. preview csi electrical contractors a well-designed website retains visitors compared to dull and boring ones. it’s simply because people often look at the internet for brands to trust. in turn, most people assess the brand’s capacity with their website’s design. csi electrical constructors is here to inspire electricians to craft websites with creativity in mind. specifically, the hero scene is striking with the slider that highlights quality images. like most outstanding websites, this one uses ample white space to improve readability and comprehension. apart from that, the visual hierarchy also improves the look and feel of the website not to mention the application of gsap animation on several sections. it also has a beautiful masonry layout of images of the brand’s previous events. preview p&c electric show off your expertise as an electrician and don’t miss to build a website as part of your marketing strategies. in case you need the inspiration to do so, then this electrician website design is valuable. p&c electric is a simple and straightforward design that integrates various useful web elements. the hero scene has a nice grayscale background image with descriptive ctas. moreover, the services section displays content in a neat and minimalist design and comes with an amazing hover effect. what’s more? it also showcases the number of projects completed and the number of happy clients they served. the testimonials section is also added to the website presented using a slider. preview kollmann electric digital marketing solutions are one of the best and innovative ways to improve businesses. hence, if you’re planning to build a web presence for your electrician website, a seamless electrician website design is a great tool. kollmann electric has an elegant and sophisticated design. it has a monochrome hero header that complements the primary cta and captivating headline. as the website uses ample white space, the content looks sophisticated and gives emphasis on the necessary features. while the visual hierarchy plays a great role in the overall design, the card design used in the presentation of services is even more appealing. preview kleinberg electric here’s another useful one-page electrician website design that has a simple and minimalist layout. with the desire to showcase more content on the hero header, most websites today embraces the power of sliders. kleinberg electric bears certain features that can inspire fellow electricians. with the clutter-free content coupled with necessary elements, this website is ready to showcase its portfolio worldwide. it uses a sticky header for effective navigation too. basically, a visitor can easily access the services, experience, news/awards, certification/affiliation and contact sections. preview o’connell electric company the electrical services business is a demand. whether it’s residential or commercial buildings, it will always need the services of an experienced electrician. therefore, such professionals ought to have an exceptional website to enhance career and unlock more wonderful opportunities. o’connell electric company has a superb website design perfect for inspiration. the hero header integrates fullwidth images exhibited using a slider with a cta that links to the projects. since succeessful projects can add credibility to the brand, this website showcases featured projects using card design. other essential pages of the website are the news, career, markets, contact and more. preview new electric if you’re an electrician never ignore the power of digital marketing to your strategies. it may seem irrelevant but it can actually do a great improvement to your career. new electric has a visually appealing design. the homepage is a feast of wonderful elements that other electricians can grab as an inspiration for their upcoming project. highlighting multiple images on the hero scene along with video background is altogether stunning. moreover, another slider is used to display the recent projects this brand successfully completed for the world to see. meanwhile, the presentation of other elements using tabs are also excellent. the testimonials section is also a great part of the effective marketing. preview puckett electric if you’re an electrician who has established an electrical contractor business, creating a quality electrician website design is essential. puckett electric is one of the modern and creative designs. it uses red as the primary color which makes the overall design look lively and vibrant. the hero header integrates a smooth slider coupled with a nice parallax effect. it also presents the services in an attractive manner. this website also includes the testimonials section to enhance reputation using a slider. moreover, the latest projects are exhibited in card design with the grayscale effect but reveals real color upon hover. it also has a nice, fully labeled contact form. preview dj electrician adept electricians need a quality website – both visually appealing and functional. apparently, a strong web presence is a demand to make the most of this strategy. hence, you may need this dj electrician, an electrician website design with a clean and professional approach. the header never fails to render the essential elements to promote the brand including the logo, prominent cta and menu along with communication options. while picking the best elements, it is also necessary that you distinguish your brand among the competitors. dj electrician creates an impressive display of advantages over other brands. it also features a parallax effect, cool testimonial section, and more. preview jtm electrical a good website can be a determining factor in whether or not clients hire you as an electrician. therefore you need to make a good impression on your potential clients. these electrician website designs will be beneficial for designers and electricians. jtm electrical has a straightforward design with useful elements utilized for promoting the business. specifically, this website places content on the center leaving ample white space on both sides. moreover, this website embraces the visual hierarchy so it’s easier to distinguish the elements. meanwhile, the sticky header is also applied to provide ease in navigation. preview master electricians australia most people today use the internet as the source of information for brands to trust. in this case, a superb, user-friendly and functional website is valuable to the success of the brand. hence, these electrician website design will help a lot in acquiring awesome web design. master electricians australia is one of the best inspiration to look into. the homepage is a great showcase of seamless, clutter-free design. like most websites, the hero scene is a stunning display of images using a slider. furthermore, it added prominent ctas to drive potential clients. in addition, this website has amazing and useful pages too. preview randy’s electric remarkable designs of the website have great chances of success. well, with a website that will represent your brand across the web, it should lead potential clients to engage with your business. randy’s electric is cool and resourceful website design. specifically, it welcomes visitors with a video background on the hero scene along with a tagline and a cta. undeniably, testimonials are a powerful scheme to promote the brand, hence, randy’s electric showcases it in a nice manner with the use of a slider. furthermore, this website also implements the sticky header to allow easy access to other linked pages. preview contract electrical these electrician websites we’ve handpicked will entice electricians to build an excellent website for their careers. contract electrical comes with a simple and well-organized design. the homepage is packed with clear ctas, uses a consistent color palette, implements visual hierarchy, and other notable features. exist to provide clients electrical and lighting installation, maintenance, and supply services, this website aims to improve its brand across the web. to give people an overview of its projects, it uses a card design to exhibit such projects with style. check out other features of this website for your upcoming projects. preview thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. electrical serviceselectricianwebsite examples share this share tweet pin it share related posts 18 best conference website designs for awesome inspiration 2020 handle events or conferences smoothly with a great conference website design that promotes them effectively.… 19 best preschool & kindergarten websites design inspiration 2019 are you one of the educational firms who wish to spread awareness of your outstanding… 19 best dentist websites design inspiration to explore 2020 are you looking for the finest and perfect website inspiration for your dentistry profession? if… 20 best gaming blog designs for inspiration 2019 need inspiration for gaming blog designs? we have selected the best and most popular gaming… 20 best beauty salon websites for design inspiration 2019 with the daily hassles and bustles of life, men and women must pamper themselves once… 19 best library website design inspiration for effective learning tools 2020 are you working with a library website? do you need fresh and resourceful inspiration? if… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (122) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 18 best ice cream websites for delicious, mouth-watering inspiration 2019 next post: 19 best preschool & kindergarten websites design inspiration 2019 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×