skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 19 best ajax woocommerce themes to build powerful, flexible ecommerce store 2020 19 best ajax woocommerce themes to build powerful, flexible ecommerce store 2020 january 12, 2020 colorlib theme collections 0 comments buying and selling goods online have become more and more popular. more entrepreneurs are starting to learn to grow their businesses by establishing an online presence. with this manner of marketing, you’ll have a higher reach and will have multiple accessibilities. merchants and customers can access your ecommerce site using different devices. it’s no wonder why global e-retail sales in 2018 reached 2.8 trillion u.s. dollars and are projected to grow multiple times in 2021. with this fact, entrepreneurs need to have a fast, secure and easy-to-use website to accommodate buying and selling needs. if you’re one of them, you should see these ajax woocommerce themes we’ve carefully handpicked for you. as you need a website that will cater to your needs when it comes to ecommerce, a group of people have built the complete solution to ecommerce needs. apparently, woocommerce provides a complete ecommerce solution that is fast and easy to use, one that can adapt to the needs of your ecommerce business. accordingly, about 2.3 million ecommerce stores are run by woocommerce. this wordpress plugin is powerful, flexible and carries a lot of features that boost the ecommerce site. the best part is that whatever type of product you want to sell – physical, virtual, downloadable and even affiliate/external products are much possible with woocommerce plugin. so, check out these amazing ajax woocommerce themes and pick the one that suits your taste. in this list, you will be able to create and manage an online store with ease. these themes are built with good functionality, best ui design and are embedded with ajax so response time is faster which increases the website’s performance and speed. savoy need a minimalist ajax woocommerce theme for your ecommerce website? why not consider savoy as your unique and innovative way of marketing? savoy is one of the minimalist ajax woocommerce themes that’s worth every penny you spent. this premium theme is built to give your customers a seamless user experience on mobile and tablet devices. savoy makes use of ajax for the shop so updating the cart without reloading the whole page is much possible. the theme is also speed and seo optimized, retina ready and fully responsive. savoy comes with amazing features to make your shop fully functional and elegant. it comes with ajax categories and filters, add-to-cart, and product search. thus, you don’t need to reload the page so items customers add-to-cart will reflect on the cart. it also features infinite loading for increasing the page views and improve the user experience. furthermore, this theme uses image “lazy loading”, product quickview, wishlist, mouse-over zoom for product gallery and more! more info / download demo woodmart selling products or services online needs careful planning and the best ajax woocommerce themes to make it work. if you haven’t found the best one yet, you can check woodmart as your effective tool. woodmart is a responsive woocommerce theme with ajax functionality. the theme is built using bootstrap framework, along with stunning features to improve the shop’s look and feel. it uses ajax full-screen search & product by sku. also, products can be filtered via size and color. thus, customers can search for products with ease without loading the page. moreover, woodmart has a built-in mega menu for user-friendly navigation. the 45+ demos layouts with modern and minimalist design can definitely boost online presence and increase sales too. with the ajax shop, users don’t need to go to other pages to purchase. purchased items will reflect on the carts and lets you choose from available variants. as the theme is fully responsive and retina ready, the functions, features and the quality of your products’ images on a desktop will remain its quality on mobile and tablet devices. woodmart supports multi vendors plugins such as dokan, yith multi vendor, wc marketplace and wc vendors that encourages a person, shops or multiple vendors to sell their products with a strategic plan. more info / download demo gecko clean and minimalist websites never go out of style. they always look fresh and beautiful especially when it comes to websites. gecko is one of these ajax woocommerce themes that is equipped with features that can make your online store stand out! a user-friendly shop always gains recognition. with gecko, you can shorten the process of building your ecommerce website. and with the 13 pre-built demos of gecko, you can create your website and start making money without coding skills. as all of these demos can be installed with a single click, selling your products and services is just very easy. whether you want to create a fashion shop, handmade, organic, furniture or any products you want to sell, gecko has got you covered. this theme is fully compatible with visual composer page builder plugin so completing your pages is just a matter of drag and drop. specifically, the theme is equipped with awesome shop features such as infinite scroll, quick view product, meta slider, woocommerce image variation swatches and more. gecko is also compatible with yith woocommerce wishlist, ajax product filter and more. more info / download demo unero build your online shop with seamless ui design, good functionality and easy-to-use website using unero. it is one of the ideal minimalist ajax woocommerce themes to use for your online shop. this theme is dedicated to selling items so it focuses on your products, making them look impressive and attractive to customers. furthermore, to make the theme do a great performance it has plugins and powerful functions embedded into the theme. unero allows entrepreneurs to sell products, digital items, downloadable products, external or affiliate and many other product types. unero has a built-in tracking system to easily track shipments of orders. apart from that, it also offers intricate tax and shipping options. hence, you really won’t have big problems when you pick unero as the theme of your online shop. that’s not all, it also contains a built-in coupon system to offer different discounts or special promos to your customers. as the theme has 15 predefined homepages you can skip the burden in crafting your pages. with these pre-built demos, you can easily and quickly build your own site with just one click. more info / download demo basel if you’re thinking of buying a good theme for your shop, you might want to look at these ajax woocommerce themes we’ve collected for you. here’s basel, a minimalist ajax theme built with modern and elegant ui design. it is ideal for any kind of shops like cloth, electronics, furniture, accessories, flowers or any other products. with this theme, you don’t really need to touch codes literally. as it is integrated with wpbakery page builder plugin, you can just drag and drop elements to complete the pages of your website. thus, you get to focus on running and managing your business than squandering much of your time in coding. basel is built to improve the performance of your website. therefore, it utilizes full ajax shop, ajax search, filter forms, wishlist, mega menu, swatches on shop page and more. the theme contains 4 general layouts – wide, boxed, boxed small, and full width. if you wish to have a sidebar layout, you also have 3 options in placing it either on left, right or full width. basel implements photoswipe gallery for images, built-in quick view, and more. additionally, basel is compatible with mailchimp newsletter, revolution slider, full woocommerce, contact form 7, etc. more info / download demo north woocommerce runs many ecommerce stores today. if you haven’t got one for your shop, you can use north as an effective theme for managing your store. north is a responsive ajax woocommerce theme crafted to provide entrepreneurs the easy way to run and manage online stores. it contains 6 ready-to-use demos for setting up an online store with ease. with north, you have different layout options for posting your products. you can use 6 columns, 5 columns, 4, 3, and more options along with filters and ajax loading options. if you wish your customers have easy access on the sidebar, north implements the quick shop function. furthermore, north integrates ajax search so you won’t need to add another plugin for that. the theme also implements the dynamic pricing and discounts plugin so you can always offer dynamic discounts and prices at the product, category and cart levels without the hassle. north has also integrated the woocommerce psd invoice, product filter, visual composer and a lot more. moreover, it is fully compatible with table rate shipping to help your create complex rules for shipping your products worldwide. more info / download demo elessi elessi is another powerful and user-friendly ajax woocommerce theme crafted to operate an online store with ease. the 12+ pre-built demos of elessi can bring your business to the next level. whichever you choose from these amazing demos it will surely give you the best elements to complete the pages of your shop. these themes have a clean, minimalist, clutter-free and elegant design for any shop you use it with. basically, it offers unique product filtering so customers can find the product they’re looking for with ease. it also uses a compare function, wishlist and cart sidebar, product quick view and more. in order to make elessi perform better, it integrates wordpress plugins that are powerful and flexible. these include dokan, wc vendors, wc marketplace, woocommerce multivendor and more to create a marketplace where other people can sell their products and get commissions for each sale. some of the newest features embedded into the theme include emailing function when stocks are available; quick add to cart button and buy now feature. all of these improves the performance of elessi. more info / download demo supro minimalist designs are always in and stand out. supro is a wonderful ajax woocommerce theme packed with functions and plugins to create and manage a store. the theme has 18 unique demos that are best for any product you want to sell. supro is equipped with many essential features to manage a shop. these include mini cart, custom widgets, unlimited color schemes, slider with smooth transition effects, menu with multiple column styles and advanced widgets. with supro, you can sell different types of products even the downloadable ones. also, if you wish to apply for the external or affiliate programs, that’s not a problem with supro. supro also makes use of a sticky header to make browsing your website far easier. it’s one way to provide customers an easy way to navigate with your website along with the mega menu. since organic traffic is an essential way to achieve success, supro is built with seo optimization in mind. thus, your website will be search engine friendly. the theme also features a product quick view, ajax add to cart, wishlist and order tracking. more info / download demo shoppystore shoppystore provides you with an innovative, complete and easy-to-use ecommerce solution to your shop’s needs. it comes with 15 unique demos to build your store with tons of features. with shoppystore, you can make use of your color scheme that represents your business. apparently, this theme has 16 preset colors but you can always set it to your own choice. you also have various homepage layouts to choose from, multiple headers and footers. with such elements, you have endless possibilities in crafting your website. shoppystore guarantees a responsive and retina-ready design. therefore, customers can access your website using their smartphones and can purchase items with ease. shoppystore is one of the ultimate solutions we’ve added in this list of ajax woocommerce themes. with ajax, customers can purchase products with ease as they will reflect on the carts even without loading pages. moreover, that’s not the only way to monetize with your site, you may also feature products from other websites using the affiliate programs. that’s just made easy with shoppystore as it is compatible with dokan and wc vendors. it also utilizes the compare and wishlist functions. more info / download demo lebe maximize the performance of your website with these powerful ajax woocommerce themes we’ve gathered for you. lebe is a multi-purpose woocommerce theme with top-notch features. aside from the ajax function, lebe is packed with plugins, amazing shop features that boost your business. it contains 12 demos which you can import via one-click install feature. thus, you get to focus on managing your website rather than in construction. with lebe, your furniture, electronics, toys and other products will look excellent and engaging. it completely supports ajax shop with intelligent filtering, thus delivers extremely fast speeds and eliminate the need for page loads. lebe is seo optimized and speed optimized too. therefore, your site will get good search engine rankings to improve organic traffic results. it also comes with different types of shops – hover style, shop infinite, minimal, modern and more! other features of the shop are instant search, ajax sidebar cart, advanced variant swatches ajax products, quick view, 360 degree product view, etc. meanwhile, lebe implements a function that shows a notification of the latest purchase on the website. thus, it boosts up sales by letting shoppers know which products are in demand and popular. more info / download demo hongo if you are ready to get your ecommerce project on feet, hongo is the ajax woocommerce theme to consider. included in the bundle, you will find all the possible material that you might require when setting up the right online store. also, it does not really matter what items you would like to push on the web, with hongo, you can make it all happen. in fact, out of the box, you have access to eleven different store demos, all creative, modern and very appealing to the eye. moreover, hongo comes with wpbakery page builder, revolution slider, custom shortcodes, over two hundred elements, order tracking and mailchimp integration. have in mind, this is still just a small percentage of all the amazingness that hongo treats you to. you are in safe hands with hongo that is for sure. more info / download demo alto with the functions, features and capabilities of woocommerce, it could be the perfect ecommerce platform every retailer needs. alto is here to help you with your shop goals. it’s an ajax woocommerce theme suitable for fashion store, pet store, jewelry, shoes and similar products. it has 15 niche demos that can be installed without hassle. whichever you choose from these pre-built sites, an ajax shop is guaranteed. hence, it gives the customers convenience in purchasing your products. basically, you can add ajax filter, product categories, lazy load and infinite scroll. it also utilizes an off-canvas shopping cart and live search. all of these contribute to the user-friendliness of the theme. with alto, you can choose to use a boxed or the full-width layout. other shop amazing features include lazy loading of product thumbnails, touched enabled sliders, product wishlist, comparison and more. alto is also seo optimized which means the code is built with seo best practice in mind: headings, heavy internal linking, google rich snippets and so on, therefore, your site will be visible on search engines. giving you the opportunity to reap organic traffic with ease. more info / download demo stockie stockie is an enticing, modern and multi-purpose ajax woocommerce theme. with the various striking demos, you can easily find the right style for your online shop. of course, you can utilize stockie for selling an assortment of different projects. from fashion and furniture to gadgets and home appliances, stockie is compatible with all and a horde more. the swiftest realization of an ecommerce website would be just to mix and match the available and spread the word out. of course, there are unlimited possibilities with stockie, especially once you activate wpbakery. keep in mind, whether you use it out of the box or you entirely customize stockie, the outcome will be very impactful either way. stockie comes with all the necessary elements and components of an online store for you to get the most out of it with ease. more info / download demo funiter if you are in the furniture business, funiter is the ajax woocommerce theme to consider. choose between six enticing and creative demos and start the process strong. let the idea of crafting an online furniture store not intimidate you. after all, not only do you have it all predefined and ready to go, but there will also be no coding necessary. tons of page demos and features in combination with drag and drop page builder allow everyone to craft the ecommerce page that will help them grow their businesses. speaking of features, funiter includes live search, awesome filtering, swatches, 360-degree product view and instagram shop. indeed, this is still just a small percentage of all the goodness that you receive with the superb funiter. benefit from the friendly support and documentation, too, and never feel lonely. more info / download demo urna with a bundle of thirty highly practical, versatile and entirely customizable demos, you can now start pushing products online in a little breeze. urna is a tool that delivers an array of functional page layouts and features that offer you a quick-start of something fresh. also, it does not really matter what products you would like to advertise online, urna is a tool that comfortably adapts to all niches and industries. after all, you can easily modify it accordingly. urna is flexible and mobile-ready, giving you a guarantee that your online shop will offer a smooth shopping experience. psd files, drag and drop page builder, slider revolution, free installation and fast loading speed are all the different amenities that you also get with urna. you will find nothing missing in the urna package. more info / download demo techstore techstore is one of the stunning ajax woocommerce themes perfect for any product you want to sell. the best part of using one of these themes is that you don’t need to know the technical side of things. techstore is built with html5, css3, premium plugins and ajax function. it comes with 3 beautiful homepages with different layout options. techstore also has various header layout and footer layout. hence, you have ample options in finishing the pages of your website. with this theme, you can use a boxed layout too or if you prefer the full-width layout it’s very easy to implement. for the color scheme, techstore offers unlimited color options with backend color picker. so, you can always pick which color suits your business. the theme is seo optimized, responsive and retina ready. thus, customers who are using a smartphone can access your website with ease. furthermore, your site will be visible on search engines, which can boosts your credibility and sales too. more info / download demo antive in this list of clean and minimalist ajax woocommerce themes, we’ve included antive. it’s a minimal yet modern design of ajax woocommerce theme. it has 12+ demos that you can easily install to start your online shop. antive offers various layouts for your shop, you can use the grid style, list, sidebar, flat, masonry and more. the theme features an ajax cart, wishlist and compare, mega menu, sticky menu, lazy loading with ajax. antive is compatible with visual composer for drag and drop page building, slider revolution for beautiful sliders, yith woocommerce wishlist, yith quick view and yith compare for an amazing online shop. also, it features an order tracking to track orders with ease. more info / download demo wooxon wooxon is a modern, clean and minimalist ajax woocommerce theme. it contains 5 pre-built demos that is suitable for any online store you want to set-up. the theme has features, shortcodes, widgets and plugins that can help you create a unique page layout giving your customers excellent shopping experience. wooxon uses ajax function for wishlist, compare, product quick view, and add-to-cart. the theme is highly customizable and is built with the latest web technologies available such as bootstrap 4, html5 and css3. wooxon integrates a newsletter popup for future marketing purposes. with wooxon, setting your site to the color scheme of your choice is pretty easy. you may also customize product variations, zoom effect, sidebar positions and other awesome customization options the theme can offer. moreover, wooxon is compatible with the major browsers so regardless of the browser used by your customers, they can access your products appropriately. with the shortcodes available in wooxon, you can easily implement on-sale products, featured product, best-selling, top-rated so on and so forth. more info / download demo zella want to build an online store without going through a lot in the development process? why not pick one from these premium ajax woocommerce themes and start running your business with ease? here’s zella, a woocommerce ajax wordpress theme with clutter-free and minimalist design. zella comes with 8 stunning demos perfect for any store you want to set up. having this theme for your business gives you unlimited options for your shop pages – left sidebar, right sidebar, load more, sodebar off-canvas, etc. sometimes, how you present your product matters a lot in the decision of your customers. hence, the layout of your products should be well-pleasing and attractive. that’s not a problem when you use zella. it has various product layout options on how you are going to display your products. with zella, your customers will have an excellent shopping experience. they can easily filter the products by size and color. you don’t even have to open the product in a new window in order to purchase it. this theme also offers off-canvas quick view, off-canvas cart & wishlist. if you want other vendors to sell on your shop, that’s much possible as the theme is compatible with wc vendors, dokan and marketplace plugins. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. ajax woocommerceecommercewoocommerce themeswordpress themes share this share tweet pin it share related posts 10 best wordpress themes for the greatest sportsmen of all times everyone loves to create the list, whether it’s people magazine’s most high-paid celebrities or fashion… beautiful wordpress bookstore themes for selling books and e-books 2020 here are the most amazing wordpress bookstore themes to help you sell e-books and hardcover… 27 most popular wordpress starter themes for your next project 2020 getting started with and learning wordpress can be done in a multitude of ways. the… 25 best buddypress themes & wordpress community themes 2020 best buddypress themes to build a fully functional community, dating site or social network with… 19 best responsive metro wordpress themes 2020 a stunning collection of the best metro wordpress themes for business, portfolio, personal, real estate,… 18 best vintage & retro wordpress themes for hipsters 2020 looking for the best vintage/retro wordpress theme to stand out in this modern world? here… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 17 best cars magazine wordpress themes to start a magazine online 2020 next post: 21 best government wordpress themes for political and government websites 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×