skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » website design » 19 excellent wedding photography websites to look into for killer portfolio 2020 19 excellent wedding photography websites to look into for killer portfolio 2020 february 23, 2020 colorlib website design 0 comments get a load of inspiration with this handpicked collection of wedding photography websites. whether you’re an established photographer or an emerging one, you shouldn’t let this inspiration slip out. so, have a glimpse of these websites and bookmark the finest ones for your upcoming project. a wedding is one of the greatest events that every couple looks into. as it happens once in a lifetime, most couples desire to make it more momentous and unforgettable. from finding the venue, shopping for the wedding dress, preparing invitations, to booking a photographer and videographer – all should be a top priority. but obviously, photography and videography are one of the most suitable and effective ways to capture those precious moments. basically, a photograph is a powerful object to remind a couple of the events and enkindles of flashing the event to memory thus photography has become a demand for every wedding. hence, numerous individuals pursue a career in photography to practice their technical expertise, creativity, and passion to produce and preserve images. with regard to marketing the proficiency of every photographer, a great portfolio is an effective way to advance career opportunities. building an online portfolio as a wedding photographer needs great inspiration to yield the best website. regardless of the scheme you pursue in building it, this bunch of wedding photography websites is worth to note. get inspired with this inspiration and find the most creative and feature-rich portfolio in the list then get ready to shine with yours! karina and agnes professional photoshoot for a wedding is essential to keep memories alive through the years. thanks to the talented photographers, wedding moments are easily captured and preserved. if you don’t have the portfolio yet, you can get inspired by these wedding photography websites. karina and agnes are two photographers with a great passion for weddings. they love to witness and document weddings to create a lasting memory for their clients. they have a simple yet elegant website design to showcase their awesome services. obviously, the homepage is the first page that can build a good impression. hence, this website ensures that the images are of high quality, navigation is clear, and typography is comprehensible. it also integrates the instagram feed to share and connect with the audience. preview your perfect wedding photographer planning the details of a wedding is a challenging task especially for couples. however, that tedious task is unnecessary at all with the help of wedding planners. similarly, capturing the event isn’t a problem too. with the skilled photographers that offers awesome photography services, moments are never missed. here’s your perfect wedding photographer, a useful directory of the best wedding photographers & photography in the uk. right on the homepage is a comprehensive display of essential web elements. the hero header exhibits the advanced search form so a potential client can easily look for the perfect photographer to hire within his preferences. it also uses the grid style for the showcase of photographers category. additionally, it utilizes the social media icons on the footer to grow and connect with clients. preview nordica photography photographers need to upgrade skills to yield amazing results. they need to master photographic techniques through the use of genuine equipment. thus, they can capture moments effectively. then, building a portfolio should be necessary when it comes to marketing. nordica photography is one of the iconic photographers, “two-headed photography monster” in stockholm, sweden. its website is as creative and professional as its services. basically, the homepage is a great exhibition of their photography works organized in a stunning manner. the hero scene introduces the brand with the video integration that can be played and paused. moreover, the successful wedding stories are indicated in dots and exhibited using the map. preview mason photography maintaining a digital portfolio to demonstrate how a photographer works is a timeless tool for success. however, it can be the best or worst marketing tool too depending on how you deliver your branding. so, don’t miss exploring these wedding photography websites to ensure yours is exemplary. mason photography exists to tell the stories that haven’t been told and cut the stress as materialism out of wedding plans. as the website can well represent the brand, this website creates a wonderful headline “colorful photos for colorful people”. the overall design is elegant and professional-looking with black and white as the color scheme as well as white typography on the dark background. to display the wedding stories, this website uses a nice slider with huge thumbnails. preview kirsten noelle capturing the moments in a wedding is challenging especially when you don’t have the skills and passion. that’s why hiring a photographer is one of the best course to have to enjoy the event and ditch the anxiety. if you’re a photographer, always opt for a web presence in marketing your services. kirsten noelle is a wedding photographer based in the san francisco bay area. she has a simple and straightforward portfolio to showcase her expertise and experience worldwide. apparently, the hero header is a wonderful display of web elements such as wedding background image, call-to-action and captivating headline with rotate text animation. in order to improve visitor retention, a sticky header is utilized in the site. preview samuel docker with the digital advancement that exists today, building a website to showcase products and services is a demand. in like manner, wedding photographers need an outstanding portfolio to reach more clients. samuel docker, is one of the inspiring wedding photography websites in this list. he’s a creative destination wedding photographer based in derby. he also shoots weddings throughout the uk and internationally including london, france and italy. apparently, the website welcomes visitors with a slider that displays amazing wedding photos. then, a short description of what the photographer can offer to couples who would like to hire his expertise. it also uses the square boxes to exhibit the wonderful wedding stories. preview mango studio showcase your works to a wider audience as you create a beautiful wedding portfolio website. so, grab the finest features you’ll find in this collection and make sure to bookmark the site. see what features you’ll grab from these wedding photography websites. mango studio is a toronto wedding photography studio with award-winning wedding photographers and artists. they have over a decade of wedding industry experience with branches in different countries. the homepage has a remarkable design and useful web elements. the hero header comes with a monochrome image as background plus the enticing cta and the name of the brand. this website allows the visitor to easily connect with the brand through the social media links, and a contact number. the featured weddings also look superb with the grid layout it utilizes. preview the arroyos the existence of photography is a timeless discovery to make moments last. no wonder why many individuals pursue this type of career. well, every wedding deserves a skilled photographer to document the events seamlessly. in turn, photographers must have a portfolio to exhibit the expertise as well as the experience in the field. the arroyos is a wedding photography website that has an amazing design. particularly, the homepage is loaded with outstanding images to prove their works. for the hero scene, various wedding photos are featured using the simple slider. moreover, it also embraces video integration to exhibit the brand’s credibility worldwide. that’s not all, the carousel adds beauty to the design as it displays some of the quality images they’ve captured. it also adds the instagram feed at the bottom of the page. preview susan shek if you’re in the photography business, having a website to showcase your works is vital. specifically, wedding photographers should have a great display of their expertise to impress potential clients and to let them browse the works well. susan shek, photography that is based in new york provides modern wedding photography and videography services. she has a passion to document engagement shoots and weddings and is ready to build credibility online. as images play essential roles to convey the message of every brand, this website comes with ample images on the homepage to represent the content. specifically, the portfolio appears stunning with big thumbnails to connect to the engagements, weddings and destinations. it also integrates the social media icons and instagram feed. preview jenna brisson a dream wedding is incomplete without the expert photographer who can document the whole event without hassle. well, photographers need to have the finest portfolio to spread awareness of the brand. jenna brisson is a vermont wedding photographer for candid, honest and emotive imagery. her site is one of the awe-inspiring wedding photography websites to explore. putting more emphasis on images to do the marketing, the hero scene is an exhibit of 20 wedding photos displayed using a slider. moreover, the latest work is presented with the use of tile layout too. in the portfolio page, the category looks great with big thumbnails. hence, the different works (couples, weddings, elopements) of jenna is a lot easier to access. it also uses the sticky header for quick access to the menu. preview gruper photographers every precious moment in a couple’s life shouldn’t be missed. from proposals, engagement to wedding ceremonies, they ought to be captured. this is where expert photographers are in demand. gruper photographers is an award-winning luxury wedding photographer in nyc. basically, this firm specializes in wedding ceremonies, receptions, engagement, proposals and other similar events. the hero header comes with various wedding photographs showcased using a slider with navigation and branding on the header. apparently, the services are displayed by categories using a simple tile layout. moreover, the team of photographers also looks grandeur with card design and monochrome images. other notable features include social icons, newsletter, sticker header and more. preview ryan chard smith photography in this collection, you’ll find simple but engaging wedding photography websites. you wouldn’t want to miss the valuable features to include for your upcoming projects. ryan chard smith photography is a wedding and elopement photographer for the untraditional and adventurous couple. his website is one of kind with the modern, minimalist and clutter-free design. like most of the websites today, this brand uses the slider in highlighting the awesome works of the photographer. as it implements the animation upon scrolling, the overall design looks remarkable. while the sticky header provides easy access to the other pages, the weddings, couples and portraits are well structured using the square menu. the blog section also looks stunning as well as the instagram feed. preview atken photography promoting your photography business online is effective and powerful with a well-built website. in this list of inspiration, you can find valuable features to boost your business. atken photography is a wedding photographer on bark, serving bridlington and surrounding areas. it aims to capture those natural, joyful, spontaneous events through amazing photographs. it comes with a fullwidth image on the hero header with cta. apparently, the featured stories look great with the grid layout it uses to represent each story. as it is important for a brand to showcase its credibility, this website ensures that the established firms who feature their works look clean and neat. preview frankly steve definitely, a good website can promote businesses as well as the careers of professionals. with a good portfolio, individuals can reach more clients and display outstanding works. check out this relevant inspiration for your upcoming wedding photography website project. frankly steve has a superb website that reflects his honest approach, humble and no-frills style in photography. his website has a unique and creative design with ample clear images to highlight his works. each of the web elements has borders to represent the outer edge. specifically, the hero scene reveals various images through the use of a slider. the categories of his works look appealing with large thumbnails and links to the stories page. the latest stories are also presented with similar huge photos that serve as thumbnails. preview purple tree photography having a professional photography website is a great medium to improve the brand’s recognition. however, building it needs ample resources, tools and inspiration to make it extraordinary. here’s a useful list to explore if you’re working with wedding photography websites. purple tree photography is a team of passionate photographers who turns their passion into a career. apparently, the homepage has an appealing design with high-quality images embedded, credibility, and branding. the hero header features clear images of their works using the slider. in order to connect with potential clients, this brand presents social icons just below the hero scene. additionally, the wedding stories in grids also adds elegance to the design. it also displays the brands that featured their works via icons. preview ryan flynn photography see wonderful ideas in building your portfolio as a wedding photographer with this awesome list. get inspired and start soaring high with exceptional wedding photography website! ryan flynn is a film and digital photographer that professionally shoots for 12+ years. his website is a great tool to market his expertise as well as reveal his credibility with style. apparently, the homepage has a neat and minimalist design with the necessary features. the hero header highlights high quality, fullwidth images with the use of a smooth carousel. having ample experience with wedding photography, the stories he has successfully documented are truly interesting with the tile layout. preview mary and dean majestic photographs can truly add to the perfect wedding photography website you put up. with a clutter-free design and awesome functionality, a wedding photography website can bolster the career opportunities of a photographer. check out this collection and don’t miss to note the one you prefer as an inspiration. mary and dean has one of the finest design to look into. they are wedding photographers that are passionate about capturing precious moments. the website speaks of its credibility via high-quality images arrayed well on various style layout. the hero header has a fullwidth, monochrome image, cta and the name of the brand. additionally, the rest of the homepage looks great with the presentation of the works via grid layout. preview amini photography beautiful and functional wedding photography websites are able to withstand the highly competitive photography industry. hence, photographers need to find ways to make their website as engaging as possible without compromising the functionality. amini photography specializes in wedding, engagement and corporate events. it has a simple homepage design but can contribute to the growth of the business. the hero scene displays clear images through the use of a slider. to keep the menu accessible, this website uses the sticky header. moreover, the different works of the photographer also look superb with the medium-size thumbnails. preview mirjam-photography let your visitors find your site user-friendly with a wedding photography website that has a handful of features to enjoy. mirjam-photography has a minimalist design of website that is crafted to empower the brand. it features nice typography, attractive images, and clean layout. the hero header displays some of the inspiring works of the photographer. furthermore, the presentation of the portfolio also looks grandeur as they’re arrayed in grids. in order to quickly access the navigation menu, a sticky header is used. as social media plays a vital role in the success of the brand, the social links are also embedded in the footer. preview thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. portfoliovideographywebsite examplesweddingwedding photography share this share tweet pin it share related posts 19 best art websites for artists and online art galleries 2019 are you an artist who wishes to build an online presence? do you think that… 18 best ice cream websites for delicious, mouth-watering inspiration 2019 an unknown author once says “the best time for ice cream is always”. precisely! ice… 19 best coffee shop websites for exceptional design inspiration 2019 want to gain a competitive advantage over other brands in the coffee industry? well, you… 20 best gym website design inspiration to empower gym, fitness centers 2020 enhance the user-friendliness and the overall functionality of your gym website as you discover some… 10+ engaging email newsletter templates mailing from scratch is not an easy task. using a newsletter template for email distribution,… top website marketing services for marketers and entrepreneurs online marketing encompasses so many different areas, from simple website design accessibility and content marketing… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 19 best library website design inspiration for effective learning tools 2020 next post: 20 exceptional pizza website designs to explore in 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×