skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » website design » 19 excellent art gallery websites to explore 2020 19 excellent art gallery websites to explore 2020 february 12, 2020 colorlib website design 0 comments are you an established or emerging artist who wants to boost and market your creativity? that’s possible when you look into art galleries to exhibit, promote and market your artworks. or you can build your own website to exhibit your artworks charmingly. if so, check out these art gallery websites that we’ve handpicked for a grandeur exhibition of your creativity. arts help reduce depression and anxiety. similarly, it is a great way to boost critical thinking skills and even improves memory. additionally, it also inspires visual imagination and bolsters personal creativity. these are just a few of the various benefits arts can bring to an individual. hence, sharing artworks on art galleries will be beneficial for the artist and the viewers. meanwhile, art galleries are a great way to increase the credibility of an artist. whether he focuses on drawings, paintings, sculpting, photography, hands loom and other similar artistry, it will always be beneficial to connect with art galleries. this way, you, as an artist can start building a career and unlock more opportunities for your passion. with an art gallery, artists can earn a dramatic increase in recognition and awareness. today, we’ve collected these art gallery websites to inspire artists worldwide. in this list, you can find different art gallery website designs that will help designers, art gallery firms to create the finest website. regardless of the artworks you collect, these sites are truly wonderful and awe-inspiring. so, scroll through the list and don’t miss the features you need to consider for your upcoming art gallery website designs. shkret art galleries can create a spark for an artist’s creativity. and a good website plays a valuable role in the success of such an artist. here’s maxim shkret, one of the most contemporary art gallery websites to check for inspiration. he is a freelance digital artists with 10+ years of experience as a graphic/digital designer. with the desire of the author to spread awareness of his arts, he hosts his own awe-inspiring gallery. apparently, the website looks impressive with its modern, elegant and professional-looking design. even more, this website looks great as it embraces the gsap animation. for the homepage, a clean and minimalist design welcomes every audience. from there, the interested viewer can buy the artwork efficiently, check the details of each artworks available and access the menu. preview grand image with the birth of digital advancement, many creative individuals also embrace its influence on their brands. in like manner, artists have adapted to such effective marketing. check out these art gallery websites that will take your projects to the next level. grand image offers hands-on art solutions for different firms and complements their hospitality, multi-family, corporate, healthcare, and residential needs. particularly, its website is unique and creative enough to impress the audience. basically, it utilizes a horizontal scroll with an awesome transition effect. the homepage welcomes a fullscreen layout with menu, headline along with exceptional background animation upon hovering. similarly, the gallery page also looks grandeur and minimalist with the masonry layout it implements. preview rz collection if you’re an artist who wishes to promote artworks into a wider audience, an art gallery can be an ideal way to improve credibility. likewise, an art gallery website can do so much to improve the artist’s exposure. here’s rz collection, one of the creative art gallery websites to explore for your next project. it collects and exhibit private contemporary arts that the audience can choose to purchase. in particular, it has an outstanding website design that can display well the contemporary arts in a magnificent manner and even more interesting with the gsap animation. the homepage uses a beautiful split-screen layout that offers various options to navigate the website. that’s not all, the transition effect it uses adds sophistication to the design. preview unravel van gogh amsterdam in order to promote the works of van gogh, a well-designed and totally unique website is ready to wow every audience. van gogh museum at amsterdam is where the largest collection of van gogh works. in particular, this website focuses on the artist’s painting in more detail, typically the information concealed in and under the paint. this art gallery website comes with a fullscreen layout on the homepage with headline, cta, off-canvas menu and name of the firm. it also uses nice transition effects. specifically, each artwork has a simple layout – the painting that can be zoomed in and out, then the read more for the details of the artwork. moreover, the off-canvas menu reveals the various works of the artist that can be accessed without delay. preview sage culture art galleries offers a huge leap for every artists on their respective careers. that’s why this medium of exposure should not be missed by artists of any type. sage culture is an art gallery and creative agency that offers contemporary art, design and creative services. it has an outstanding website design that is ready to inspire other agencies or art gallery businesses worldwide. particularly, the homepage has a nice and comprehensive design with clear and beautiful sections. to provide ease in the navigation, the side menu is added on the hero scene and a sticky off canvas menu is visible. to ensure readability, the website uses large and bold typography all over the page. in like manner, the presentation of artists also looks stunning and professional and are ever ready to boost the website’s creativity. preview art4global goals some art gallery websites are established to exhibit private artist’s artworks. so with art4global goals, it is one of the creative art gallery that showcases the works of leon lowentraut. it is built to promote the 17 global goals for sustainable development in the united nations. like other websites in this collection, art4global goals use a full-screen homepage with clean and neat layout. apparently, it comes with a simple menu, great headline, social media links plus gsap animation. moreover, the 17 global issues are wonderfully exhibited and can be scrolled through the use of a smooth slider. the project, campaign and partner pages are full of web elements that can convey the message clearly such as headlines, images, ctas presented using an asymmetrical layout. preview sophie hustin as artists excel and unlock opportunities for a career when they opt for art gallery exhibitions, it is ideal for art gallery agencies to build a website to reach more audiences. here’s a magnificent portfolio of sophie hustin, a french contemporary artist, painting & sculpting minimalist arts. like most of the creative websites today, this website implements the gsap animation. and, the overall design is never boring but totally majestic. apparently, the homepage looks monotonous but reveals startling images that represent the paintings on the left side and sculpture artworks on the right side. basically, the paintings array one after the other. also, each painting can be zoomed in and out to see the beauty of the art clearly. moreover, the social media icons are ready to help connect the audience to the social media pages of the agency. preview art d’ hope whether you’re an artist or an established art gallery, these art gallery websites will be beneficial for your upcoming project. art d’hope is an association of artists and non-profit organization that aims to connect patrons and lovers of art. it is established to create a social art community for artists around the world, all fine art artists & digital artists. specifically, artworks can be purchased and artists have the option to donate part of the sale to support the firm’s mission. the hero scene is a simple display of search function with a background image. the featured artworks on the homepage are exhibited well with the masonry layout. all of those artworks look clear and creative to engage the audience’s attention. it also uses a sticky header to keep the menu accessible. preview petzel gallery explore these innovative art gallery websites and see which features you’d pick for the enhancement of your website. here’s petzel gallery, a contemporary art gallery that exhibits the artworks of renowned artists internationally. as it is committed to making its website accessible to all people, it ensures that the website complies with the best practices and standards of web content accessibility guidelines. well, with such goal, the website design is also clean and impressive. specifically, the homepage welcomes visitors with a simple but comprehensive layout. the hero header is a display of awesome artworks highlighted using a slider. other featured artworks are presented in a minimalist manner too. furthermore, the necessary pages of the site include exhibitions, artists, publications, art fairs, news and gallery. preview pace gallery with the power of digital advancements, more and more opportunities are at hand not just for businesses but also for creative individuals worldwide. in like manner, the art industry has never ignored such a strategy in the promotion of artworks. here’s pace gallery that you can take a look into if you’re looking for art gallery websites for inspiration. it’s a leading contemporary art gallery that represents many of the most significant international artists and estates of the 20th and 21st centuries. the homepage features the upcoming exhibitions in different sections. of course, social media links play important roles in spreading the upcoming exhibitions. hence, pace gallery added them to the footer section as well as the menu. preview victoria miro visiting art galleries is an excellent way to enhance creativity as well as enrich personal expressiveness. that’s why we see a lot of art galleries these days not just physically but virtually. if you’re looking for a set of art gallery websites for inspiration, you need not look further. this collection will provide you the best features you can add to your current website project. victoria miro gallery is a british contemporary art gallery located in london. as victoria miro showcases the works of established and emerging artists from different continents – usa, europe and asia, her website is exceptionally built. the hero scene displays various artworks through a smooth slider. in order to provide ease in the navigation, the sticky header is used in the site along with dropdown menu to display the categories. preview the unit london if you’re an artist wishing to advance your career effectively, then you shouldn’t ignore the power of art galleries. in this way, a great exposure of your artworks will be possible. the unit london is one of the inspiring art gallery websites that can ignite the interests of the viewers. it seeks to identify, cultivate and expose works of art on a purely meritocratic basis. it always believed that the future of contemporary art lies in the union of digital and analog. apparently, the homepage has a straightforward design – simple menu, headline and background image. it also uses a cool transition effect to make navigation more interesting. other interesting pages are the artists, exhibitions, store, about and contact. additionally, the implementation of gsap animation also adds creativity to the design. preview the goldfinch carel fabritius is one of the renowned artists that painted the famous “the goldfinch”. it’s a painting of a life-size chained goldfinch and is now in the collection of mauritshuis in the hague, netherlands. being renowned in the art world, this painting even looks visually appealing with a modern and creative website. specifically, the website uses the gsap animation to showcase the goldfinch and its nature. it’s easier to navigate the website while having an amazing transition effect. while the content of each page looks fantastic, the audio also adds sophistication to the design too. in order to convey the message more clearly, video integration is also added to the website. moreover, the sticky icons of facebook and twitter are also accessible on the homepage. hence it is a lot easier to share the website with social media networks. preview simon lee gallery simon lee gallery represents artists of diverse generations ranging from sculpture, painting, video and photography. specifically, it publishes catalogs and artist monographs, collaborated with museums and commercial galleries for artists’ exposure. with the desire to reach more audiences, a great design of a website is built. having a clean and minimalist design with amazing features, its website is ready to fascinate every visitor. the hero scene is a display of amazing artworks displayed using a sleek slider. it’s actually a split-screen layout with the title of the exhibition on the left and the artwork on the right side. other featured exhibitions also look captivating with a little description and the thumbnail that represents it. other useful features include sticky header, video integration, social icons and more. preview mitchell-innes & nash check out these art gallery websites that exist to aid established and emerging artists showcase their work worldwide. mitchell-innes & nash has a modern art gallery website design perfect for inspiration. for the homepage, a simple display of artworks with the upcoming exhibitions on the bottom is visible. also, the sticky header, social icons and newsletter are also apparent in the homepage. furthermore, the artists’ page looks great with the fixed square layout where the content appears cleaner and more aligned. additionally, each artist’ page also has an excellent layout. a nice slider to highlight the featured works, a two-column section for the biography, news and press. in like manner, the exhibitions and publications page also looks attractive with the same layout. preview new museum the arrangement of visual elements are essential to convey the message clearly. that is why, it is necessary that you have ample established websites to examine before you finalize your own. with art gallery websites, it is necessary to have lots of inspiration. here’s new museum, a leading destination for new art and new ideas. this contemporary art museum has a modern and sleek website design. it utilizes a cool slider to highlight upcoming exhibitions. moreover, the featured events for the week are also visible on the homepage using a minimalist layout. while those web elements are displayed in a creative manner, other pages are also accessible via the sliders. preview ateneum here’s another useful art gallery website that can kindle the interest of other artists or art gallery businesses. ateneum is a finnish national gallery that has the biggest collections of classical art in finland. in order to make the homepage visually appealing, the images, typography and sliders are combined excellently. the hero scene displays the featured artworks through the slider. the upcoming events have a clean and straightforward design while the collections utilize thumbnails. meanwhile, the header comes with the necessary elements and the footer has comprehensive design too. moreover, it also offers workshops that range from silk screen printing to ceramics, as well as the more traditional methods of drawing and painting. check out this awesome website today! preview virtosu art gallery these handpicked art gallery websites will serve as an inspiration for fellow artists and art gallery owners. from minimalist and straightforward design to super creative and artistic, you can find such inspiration in this set. here’s virtosu art gallery that is crafted with innovation and elegance in mind. it’s the world’s leading abstract art gallery that showcases extraordinary art, unparalleled service and international expertise. the hero scene is a presentation of various artworks that looks stunning with the use of a slider. of course, the cta, name of the artwork and a thumbnail is visible on the scene. while other websites use white as the background, this website uses a cool, darker background to complement the content. it also uses a sticky header for the menu and sticky social media shares on the side. preview andy h. wei as websites play a great role in the success of every business, most creative individuals also integrate it into their careers to enhance it. andy h. wei, an american artist based in new york city is one of the awesome art gallery websites. his website is a work of art itself as it integrates the gsap animation, startling mood board, great typography and awesome color palettes. they’re altogether seamless and excellent as it incorporates minimalism and simplicity. the attractive transition effects also add creativity to the design. for the homepage, most of his recent pieces are arrayed with large and bold typography. it also uses quick navigation on the paintings list so the visitor can easily scroll through his other artworks. other pages of the site are the works, textures (paintings), about and contact. preview thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. artart galleryartistscontemporary artwebsite design share this share tweet pin it share related posts 20 stunning websites with exceptional contact form designs 2020 have you ever thought about the essence of the contact form on your website? did… 18 best actor website design inspiration for actors, actresses and talent agencies 2020 building a website is an important centerpiece of digital marketing. indeed, it’s a powerful tool… 18 best hair salon websites design for awesome inspiration 2019 special occasion calls for gorgeous looks which primarily include professional hairstyles. luckily, you can find… 19 best sports blogs design for inspiration 2019 if you’d like to have fun while keeping your body fit and well, you better… 19 best jewelry website design inspiration to build jewelry store online 2020 are you a retail jeweler, jewelry manufacturer or vendor? you can make your products shine… 20 best bakery websites design for inspiration 2019 celebrating moments of happiness is definitely incomplete without bakery products. these freshly baked goodies serve… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 18 best conference website designs for awesome inspiration 2020 next post: 19 best image source finders to create powerful marketing 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×