wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 19 types of websites you can create with wordpress 19 types of websites you can create with wordpress last updated on may 13th, 2017 by editorial staff 1.1k shares share tweet share pin when people are deciding why they should use wordpress, we often get asked about “can wordpress do [blank]? the answer is mostly yes. in this article, we will show you 19 different types of websites you can create with wordpress without learning any programming skills. getting started with wordpress you will need wordpress hosting and a domain name to get started with your wordpress site. we have a step by step guide on how to make your website with wordpress. if you just want to play around with wordpress, then you can install it on your computer. take a look our tutorials on how to install wordpress on windows and mac computers. 1. blog or personal website wordpress started out as a simple blogging platform and quickly evolved into a powerful cms. during the last 12 years, those blogging and personal website components didn’t disappear. they have become more polished, sophisticated and mature. if you are going to create a blog or personal website, then you will find plenty of tools to manage and grow your wordpress quickly. 2. business website wordpress is the easiest way to build a professional looking business website. it is so powerful that many big name brands are using wordpress to power their websites. it gives you easy tools to quickly launch a website and then extend it as your business grows. 3. ecommerce wordpress is quickly becoming a go to solution for building an ecommerce websites. there are awesome plugins like woocommerce, easy digital downloads, and wpecommerce which convert your wordpress website into fully functional ecommerce platform. you can accept payments, manage inventory, shipping, taxes, and users from the same roof. 4. job board several popular sites like smashing magazine, problogger etc use job boards as an extra source of income. there is a growing demand of niche job boards catering the needs of a specific industry or specialization. wordpress allows you easily create a job board where employers can post job listings and professionals can respond to them. 5. business directory just like job boards, there is increasing demand of niche business directories on the web. there are some great wordpress business directory plugins which allow you to easily create a business directory. you can even create web directory that is not limited to businesses alone. 6. question & answer website want to create your own version of yahoo answers, stack exchange, or quora? with wordpress you can easily create a question and answers site. combine it with other tools, and you can build yourself a thriving online community of your own. 7. nonprofits and religious websites wordpress is free as in freedom (see our guide why is wordpress free?). this makes it an ideal solution for nonprofit organizations. with wordpress plugins you can add donate form and raise money by accepting paypal donations. there are some great wordpress themes for churches and nonprofits. 8. portfolio websites need a place to showcase your work? you can easily add a portfolio to your wordpress site with stunning image galleries, and beautiful sliders. wordpress can be used to provide a very sleek and polished user experience for your portfolio site making it easier for others to browse and learn about your work. 9. online communities wordpress can be used as an online forum using the lightweight bbpress forum. you can even add social features to a wordpress site with plugins like buddypress. 10. coupon website want to earn affiliate commissions from thousands of websites offering special discounts on their products and services? use wordpress to create a coupon site. it allows you to easily add, manage, and expire coupons. your users can vote and rate coupons, and it all fits right in your wordpress admin area. 11. auction websites want to run your own ebay like auctions website? with wordpress, you can create a fully functional auction website. users can bid online, make payments, and you get to earn by simply providing a platform for your niche industry. 12. multilingual websites you can install wordpress in many languages, but you can also create a multilingual website as well. see how easy it is to create multilingual websites using wordpress. 13. knowledgebase / wiki websites want to add a documentation section with a knowledgebase or wiki like articles? wordpress comes with great plugins that quickly turn your website into an easy to browse knowledgebase wiki. 14. podcasting websites wordpress and podcasting go hand in hand. most popular podcasters on the web are using wordpress for their websites. see our step by step guide on how to start a podcast with wordpress. 15. niche affiliate websites want to make a commission by referring your users to products and services? here are the best affiliate marketing tools and plugins available for wordpress. these tools will boost your affiliate earnings and make things a lot more easier. 16. photography websites are you a professional or amateur photographer? want to share your family vacation photos? with wordpress and envira gallery, you can create astonishingly beautiful photography websites. you can add galleries, albums, titles, captions, lightbox popups, slideshows, and the bells and whistles. there are also tons of photography templates available for wordpress. 17. school or college websites wordpress powers thousands of schools and college websites around the world. it is safe, secure, and easy to manage. see our list of popular universities that are using wordpress. 18. private blogs want to keep your wordpress blog to yourself? see how easily you can make your wordpress blog completely private. run team projects, diaries, or whatever you want in a safe environment away from prying eyes. 19. family blogs with built in media and user management system, wordpress is perfect to create small family websites. create beautiful wedding websites, upload family photos, or add family gossip. wordpress can provide endless fun for all members of family age 10 and up. see our list of best wordpress themes for family blogs. we hope this article gave you some ideas about the kind of websites you can create with wordpress. getting started with wordpress is easier with wpbeginner, see how you can make the most out of wpbeginner’s free learning resources. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 1.1k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 55 commentsleave a reply sumon says: mar 19, 2020 at 10:29 pm very helpful content. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 20, 2020 at 9:05 am thank you, glad you like our content reply tayo says: feb 19, 2020 at 11:58 pm academic journal not listed. wordpress can’t be used for it? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 20, 2020 at 10:01 am that would normally be considered a blog, yes wordpress can be used to create that type of site reply girish kp says: feb 17, 2020 at 11:31 pm nice work . thank you reply wpbeginner support says: feb 18, 2020 at 8:44 am you’re welcome reply ezekiel says: jun 24, 2019 at 11:50 am please can i create a site that can be used for booking using wp ? a link provided with the answer would definitely help. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jun 25, 2019 at 11:43 am yes you can, you would want to use one of the plugins in our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/5-best-wordpress-appointment-and-booking-plugins/ reply chandra kant says: apr 5, 2019 at 2:39 am nice article reply wpbeginner support says: apr 5, 2019 at 11:22 am thank you reply monika mbatours.in says: feb 15, 2019 at 4:52 am very good article, it has been made very well, it has very good information, its content is also very good, thank you reply wpbeginner support says: feb 15, 2019 at 10:41 am thank you reply shivani umeacademy. com says: feb 5, 2019 at 5:43 am your blog is very good, has got very good information in it, there is everything in it, the content is also very good, it has helped a lot from your blog. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 5, 2019 at 11:12 am glad our content could help reply munachimso a. ezenwanne says: dec 21, 2018 at 2:25 am good day to you all, please i need help with creating an ecommerce website. where i can be able to buy and sell products effectively and make reasonable income. thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 21, 2018 at 6:24 am hi munachimso, please take a look at our step by step guide on how to start an online store. reply saksham says: aug 12, 2018 at 11:03 am just a suggestion from a fellow developer. it would be helpful to show the comments thread with collapsed replies. this will allow the user to browse more comments and they can expand the reply/replies to any comment which they are interested in exploring without having to unnecessarily scroll through everything. cheers, helpful post as always! reply abdirahim ali adow says: may 22, 2018 at 4:42 am hello i want to create a website to make money in online , is that possible through word press ? thank you reply starr says: dec 1, 2018 at 12:57 pm yes man, just keep posting and posting uunless you have thousands of visiters everyday and they you can earn money by referring, popups and redirection.i hope it helps you. reply ron says: may 5, 2018 at 2:23 am i want to create a market place website as like amazon.com by wordpress. is it possible? i don’t need all feature of amazon.com. i want to create website myself but i don’t have any idea about coding. can i create website myself? reply wpbeginner support says: may 6, 2018 at 8:49 pm hi ron, please see our article on how to create a marketplace website using wordpress. reply mahira says: mar 11, 2018 at 10:00 am nice info…any body can guide me that how can i create a list website? like, email listing type. reply max runge says: apr 14, 2018 at 4:49 am you can either code it on your own like, and than or with a plugin…. i would prefer a plugin if you don´t have any coding experiences reply donovan casares says: oct 24, 2017 at 1:41 am i want to know if there is a way that you could create a website that can convert writings on paper to the actual website. reply emmanuel agbanagba says: oct 6, 2017 at 4:45 pm thanks for the reply to my question. i want you to kindly recommend at least three wordpress theme for the kind of website i am talking about – the website is an entertainment news website.it will have a envira gallery plugin..,buddypress plugin and awpcp plugin. your recommendation will be highly regarded. thanks once again-! reply emmanuel agbanagba says: sep 30, 2017 at 12:58 pm please can i create a wordpress site with a photo gallery plugin,buddypress plugin and classified ads plugin installed all at once; and if yes x what theme is suitable for the website? reply wpbeginner support says: oct 2, 2017 at 6:54 pm hi emmanuel, yes you can use these plugins together. the choice of theme depends on what kind of websites you want to build, and your own design preferences. please see our guide on how to choose a wordpress theme to learn more. reply owusu marfo says: aug 28, 2017 at 5:10 pm simply put! wordpress can be used to create almost every website. reply jerry says: aug 22, 2017 at 7:11 pm i want to create job and service advertisements website that will allow users to upload pictures and short videos in there dashboard which can be viewed when published. can i use wp job manager, envira gallery and bbpress plugins to build the website? please reply me asap and if no what is the best option available for such a website. thanks reply alexander azuka says: aug 19, 2017 at 5:05 pm please i want to make a social network site like whatsapp reply oladimeji tobi says: jun 12, 2017 at 10:41 am to be frank, i’m overly confused…i’ve been trying to create a personal blog via wordpress…but it hasn’t been going well…..kindly help me out with a plausible info. reply henry nwala says: jun 6, 2017 at 5:24 am i want to create a dating website which plugin will be best for me thanks. reply alex granier says: may 17, 2017 at 9:06 pm hi. what about news portals? thank you reply matthew ukwadia says: may 17, 2017 at 8:02 pm please i want to build a professional sport anlysis, tips and review site what plugins will be best for this reply wpbeginner support says: may 17, 2017 at 11:51 pm hey matthew, please take a look at our list of essential wordpress plugins. review the list and install the plugins you think you will need. you will probably also need plugins that can handle functionality specific to your website’s niche. for that you can search wordpress plugin directory. also check our beginner’s guide on how to choose the best wordpress plugin. reply blink says: mar 11, 2017 at 9:37 am very informative article. thanks for sharing.. reply bibak says: jan 24, 2017 at 1:14 am sir i want to make news site which theme will be better . i am in big confusion reply karabo says: dec 16, 2016 at 6:00 am i would like to use the wordpress to put all actives in my area,so that people would know what happening in that area. reply a4nanand says: sep 29, 2016 at 7:20 am it is very useful for me. i actually needed that. you solved my big problrm regarding seo. reply anthony says: nov 28, 2016 at 6:40 am i have entered the wpbeginner log in and i like to know the best theme for my site, which i know a lot about this products. at the moment im using memorable theme and is not complete. any suggestion thanks reply sharon nepe says: sep 8, 2016 at 5:37 pm i have just signed up for the basic blog website but later want a website that can do more than this. i want to create a community and post videos and eventually run an online business. can i update my website. what would i update it to? reply kuldeep singh says: sep 17, 2016 at 3:49 pm yes you surely can update your website. here’s your solution: 1. to create community: try buddypress 2. for video solutions: lots of plugins there or search for theme that does that in a site like themeforest. 3. for online solutions: for wordpress, the one & only woocommerce good luck! reply shami says: sep 4, 2016 at 9:05 am it’s a very helpful tutorial for every people thanks for sharing with us. reply kay toe says: aug 23, 2016 at 10:57 am i would like to build a document distribution and information sharing websit for our organization. what type of website sutable for me. best regards, kay toe reply vincent walter says: jul 1, 2016 at 1:50 pm how possible is it to create a 100% totally free website for calls. i mean a website for making calls. can someone throw a little light on this please? reply barry says: sep 14, 2015 at 10:11 am is there a wordpress template/plugin for surveys? reply gene says: sep 13, 2015 at 11:11 pm i want to create a blog that offers clickbank affiliate products. can anyone suggest a suitable wp theme for this please? reply leland garner says: sep 13, 2015 at 1:20 pm hi! – i recently had a website for interactive learning with video, audio and question forms that users could answer online. the problem was all of those things used flash. can a wordpress site be set up with plugins which will do all of those things with html 5? reply tawhidul islam says: sep 9, 2015 at 1:33 pm that’s cool list reply jalisa reitz says: sep 9, 2015 at 11:58 am event websites should be listed- they are so popular lately! we also use wordpress for event websites over at eventappi. you can either build in event management/registration into your business website or many times people build an entire website just for conferences, events, etc. wordpress is the best way to build event websites in our mind! reply dale says: sep 9, 2015 at 11:11 am hi, we are looking at creating a new website for my sailing club and wondered if there is a plugin that allows you to manage it members. we would want to be able to edit type of membership, enter people details etc. any ideas on a plugin? reply wpbeginner support says: sep 9, 2015 at 2:23 pm there are several membership plugins for wordpress which can do that. reply sunday adeniran says: apr 17, 2016 at 12:07 pm good list but which template can i use for student/teacher interactive environment? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 18, 2016 at 5:50 am take a look at our guide, selecting the perfect wordpress theme – 9 things you should consider. yasmin abdi abdilahi says: may 27, 2019 at 8:52 am this is amazing ideas and templates i will use one of those ,i wanna to create my own website reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) ipage coupon get over 83% off on ipage web hosting and a free domain name. wp manage ninja coupon get 15% off on wp manage ninja wordpress themes and plugins. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.