worksheets all topics a-z grammar vocabulary speaking reading listening writing pronunciation virtual classroom articles posters books more worksheets by season 600 creative writing prompts warmers, fillers & ice-breakers coloring pages to print flashcards classroom management worksheets emergency worksheets revision worksheets resources we recommend busyteacher home » teaching ideas » recycling and revising free recycling and revising worksheets recycling and revising – take two! this is the recycling and revising section of busy teacher. here you can find 199 worksheets related to this topic for use in the esl classroom. for your beginner classes, use this fun revision worksheet, which includes four different activities to review the alphabet, numbers and colors over the course of two or three class periods. you could also just choose one of the available activities as a warm up, practice, or review activity for your students. look through the rest of the section to find other great worksheets. most of the worksheets in this section focus on reviewing material which is an important thing to do in esl courses. this is especially important if you plan to build upon previously learned material during a lesson and for students to commit the material to their long term memory. use your warm up to review material you plan to use in class. this will allow you to see how much students remember and build their confidence before moving on to the introduction of a new topic. reviewing often throughout the course will help students retain information longer. it is easy to learn something in one lesson only to forget it by the next day so students need constant practice. read more......less filter by level new complete beginner (20) elementary (83) pre-intermediate (82) intermediate (74) upper-intermediate advanced (55) exam level (17) suitable for all levels (6) clear filters filter top articles in this category what you can do with a whiteboard: 10 creative esl games 7 best ways to end a lesson top 10 ways to assess your students 12 teacher tips for writing good test questions 8 simple tips to encourage student participation during group discussions esl teachers beware: are you making these mistakes in class? how to teach review lessons: success strategies how to do a comprehensive review of verb tenses for intermediate esl students how to provide quality feedback in the esl classroom 5 non-verbal ways to do error correction dramatically improve the way you teach: check out our writing resources creative writing prompts 1-50 creative writing prompts 51-100 creative writing prompts 101-150 creative writing prompts 151-200 creative writing prompts 201-250 creative writing prompts 251-300 creative writing prompts 301-350 creative writing prompts 351-400 creative writing prompts 401-450 creative writing prompts 451-500 creative writing prompts 501-550 creative writing prompts 551-600 make a word search: create awesome-looking custom word searches in seconds! create now › make a word scramble: instantly create custom word/sentence scrambles for your class! create now › make a double puzzle: generate double puzzles your students will love - hours of fun! create now › esl articles view our latest knowledgebase articles that will help you become a better english teacher. learn from professional teachers and put a bit of your own creativity into it! top 10 tongue twisters: true teacher's treasure? 10 february themed language building activities beyond martin luther king day: teaching argument through the writings of martin luther king wida and access testing: what you need to know how to be a better teacher: the secret recipe that every pro knows view all rate this category 4.5 out of 5, rated by 4 teachers most popular icebreakers introductions board game natural disasters tenses revision worksheet present continuous miming game complete the sentence game jeopardy! final game for an elementary course jc's reported speech cheat sheet relative pronoun speaking practice touchstone 2 jeopardy (units 1,2,3) sort by: most recent | most viewed | rating touchstone 2 jeopardy (units 1,2,3) karina •teenagers, mingling activities, recycling and revising, coursebook resources a power point presentation to review units 1,2 and 3 of the book touchstone 2, a jeopardy game to play. divide the class in 2 teams and start asking the questions. there are 5 categories: units 1, ... 7 28,859 int review ( backpack 1; unit 1-3) samieh.teach •cardinal numbers, appearance/body parts, family/friends, back to school, recycling and revising this power-point presentation is appropriate for elementary students. this is helpful for reviewing numbers, school objects, family and body parts related vocabulary items. hope you find it useful. 2 11,709 elem first semester yle level exam (cambride flyers level) deana.seabrooks •degrees of comparison, countable/uncountable nouns, young learners, recycling and revising extensive exercises with comparatives and superlatives. it also contins "some" and "any" with questions, negatives and positives. there is some vocabulary related to autumn and places around town. ... 3 14,854 exam second semester a2 level exam deana.seabrooks •countable/uncountable nouns, possessive pronouns, present simple, recycling and revising this is an exam which includes exercises on sense verbs, countable and uncountable nouns, expressions with "have got", when to use "how much / many / a lot of / lots of / too and enough". it also ... 4 13,658 exam vocabulary chosoon •teenagers, recycling and revising this worksheet is designed for pre-intermediate learners, who are preparing for the first exam of thesecond term. it contains vocabulary work. hope it will be useful for the teens at your sc ... 3 8,853 pre-intint put busyteacher in your inbox sign up for the busyteacher weekly and be the first to get direct links to our latest teaching articles, worksheets and lesson plans. goes out to 323,134 subscribers every wednesday. see last week's issue. yes, sign me up! thank you for joining our mailing list! henry ii plantagenet akrateia •united kingdom, recycling and revising, coursebook resources one of the great kings of england: common law, scutage and conflict with thomas becket. this mind map briefly outlines the great king, his achievements and the conflict with becket. you can use it ... 3 4,076 pre-intint english history succession war 1139 akrateia •teenagers, united kingdom, recycling and revising a simple mind map about succession war, its causes, important facts and how it ended up. i use these maps to get a general view of a topic leading to discussion or group work to add details. mind ... 1 4,465 pre-int top 20 most common spelling mistakes respelt •spelling, recycling and revising this infographic depicts most common spelling mistakes english language learners make. you can use it as a classroom poster. in addition, you can use it to revise spelling with your students, or t ... 11 14,102 pre-intintadvexam pokemon maze tanagoria •teenagers, adult learners, crosswords/boardgames, recycling and revising this speaking worksheet is created as a game for our speaking club, and i think it's a great way to recycle your material and get your students talking at the same time. this game is also a nice t ... 5 9,292 elempre-intintadv complete the sentence game soldilu •past simple, present simple, recycling and revising i use this activity for warming up or as a team competition game. it is very fast, it will not take you more than five minutes. i read aloud a line by line and students try to be fast completing t ... 16 40,176 elempre-int movie worksheet: mr. young, episode 1 - season 1 priscilla camargo •present simple, young learners, movie + video + cartoons, recycling and revising recommended to children between ages 9-10 . we can use it to recycle vocabulary related to animals, places and objects. it's also used to improve students' skills to observe details and give opini ... 2 8,507 elem william the conqueror's family tree akrateia •united kingdom, recycling and revising mind map of william the conqueror's family tree: it is often difficult to remember both names and the steps that led from a strong king (1066) to the succession war (1139). this mind map shows the ... 5 5,920 pre-int english marathon marina •prepositions and conjunctions, reading comprehension, recycling and revising “english marathon” is an inspiring worksheet based on kate’s life story. she is an english teacher, a traveler, and a runner. the worksheet can be used as a revision quiz or read ... 12 18,604 pre-intintadv id card luana araújo •indefinite article, cardinal numbers, present simple, recycling and revising this worksheet deals with the verb to be, numbers, articles and some classroom objects. it is a simple review. it is designed for elementary students or beginners. you can add more exercises and u ... 3 14,742 elem oral presentation evaluation chart ronald ortega •teaching ideas » recycling and revising normally you do not know how to evaluate an oral presentation or oral test. well, here you have an evaluation chart that i created based on information i got from different places, so that you ca ... 4 11,285 all tests englishteacherspich •teaching ideas » recycling and revising i made these tests to check my students general knowledge. they are not standardized and include cloze and multiple choice exercises. some did well,some didn't. it checks their knowledge of both l ... 7 10,947 pre-intint the norman invasion akrateia •united kingdom, recycling and revising a quick mind map about the edward the confessor, the norman invasion and the battle of hastings. the map shows just "headlines" with relevant vocabulary, so students are reminded of the main sub-t ... 2 5,970 pre-int revision of unit 3- big business ( headway advanced) freedom •recycling and revising, coursebook resources this power point consists of adverb collocations exercises, synonyms of words and some vocabulary exercises as well as preposition exercises. it has 10 slides and is connected to the third unit of ... 1 7,868 adv movie worksheet: how to recycle in new york city olyanu •environment and nature, movie + video + cartoons, recycling and revising this is a worksheet based on an interesting and a very informative video "how to recycle in new york city" instructing new yorkers on the process of recycling. the worksheet contains two exercises ... 8 16,849 intadvexam grade 7 midterm test hepi anesti •can/could, past simple, present simple vs. present continuous, social issues, recycling and revising this is a complete worksheet for grade 7 midterm test. it covers several topics such as simple present tense, present continuous tense, and simple past tense, preposition of time (in, on, at ... 14 18,163 pre-int vocabulary & grammar test for 10-12 year olds poisoneyeliner •present simple, recycling and revising this is a test worksheet that i did for my students after two years of studying english. i think it's pretty easy, and could be also great as as a test after summer holidays. there are vocabulary ... 7 17,235 begelem five rules for teaching ielts listening d beauchamp •teaching ideas » recycling and revising this article details my personal approach to teaching ielts listening by breaking it down into five strategies which can be applied to all parts of the test. this should be a useful introduction ... 6 10,646 exam diagnostic test tima ilyes •degrees of comparison, singular/plural nouns, past simple, present simple, recycling and revising it's a beginning diagnostic test of the school year for the elementry students. it's a general and complete test that lets them have a general revision of three years english learning. it's ... 12 32,200 elempre-int leaning english - 15 minutes a day pedro santana •teaching ideas » recycling and revising this worksheet contains a weekly study plan for your students. it covers all the essential skills they need to practice. there are qr code with links for websites they can use in their studies. it ... 4 9,158 all beowulf - recap questions akrateia •reading comprehension, recycling and revising the file contains 35 questions about beowulf plot. the questions are not too detailed, they provide a general outline of the story. i use them for final revision. suits high school literature stud ... 2 7,144 pre-int got a great worksheet on recycling and revising? tell us about it and become a busyteacher contributor! submit a worksheet previous page 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 next page busyteacher.org copyright 2007-2020 © about submit a worksheet log in terms privacy contact us mobile version working. please wait...