worksheets all topics a-z grammar vocabulary speaking reading listening writing pronunciation virtual classroom articles posters books more worksheets by season 600 creative writing prompts warmers, fillers & ice-breakers coloring pages to print flashcards classroom management worksheets emergency worksheets revision worksheets resources we recommend busyteacher home » listening free listening worksheets listening can be a challenge even for experienced esl students. scoring high on a grammar quiz may be a piece of cake, but it’s not always easy to make out every word a native speaker says - especially when that speaker is talking at normal speed, without pauses between words. even so, listening is a crucial component of modern esl teaching, right up there with grammar, speaking, and writing. if you want to teach your class effectively, you need to teach them listening. the question of how, exactly to approach that, though, isn’t always clear. some teachers sit at the front of the classroom and speak in slow, measured tones, as the students write out every word they say. others bring in cds or play online videos, and ask the students to transcribe as many words as they can catch. still others encourage their students to speak naturally with each other, and write down what their partners say. many teachers try to combine all these approaches, so students will get the most varied listening exposure possible. whatever your approach - or set of approaches - to listening exercises, busyteacher.org has worksheets just for you. our 2,950 listening worksheets will provide your class with all kinds of opportunities to work with spoken english in all its forms, and gain exposure to a variety of regional accents, speaking speeds, and topics. by the time you’ve gone through a few of these worksheets with your class, you’ll start to see distinct improvement in many of your students’ listening skills. the exercises offered on our listening worksheets come in a wide range of formats - from exercises in which students transcribe interviews with celebrities, to ones in which they listen to popular songs or even read-aloud poems. some are targeted at lower-level students, and just ask the listeners to fill in the missing words from a short sample of dialogue. others are targeted at higher-level students, and encourage them to write or talk about their reactions to the themes and ideas presented in a longer conversation. no matter which level or style of exercise you use, you can be sure that it’s already been tested and found to work in a classroom like yours. that’s because every worksheet on busyteacher.org has been created by esl teachers just like you, and used in real classrooms all over the world. as a matter of fact, if you’ve created a worksheet that’s worked well in your own classroom, our community would love for you to share it - just click the “submit a worksheet” button at the bottom of this page, and send it our way! as you browse down this page, you’ll notice that all the worksheets are visible in a small thumbnail view, so you can get a general idea of what each one looks like before you download it. this time-saving twist lets you glance over all our worksheets, and just grab the ones that interest you the most. plus, every one of our 2,950 listening worksheets is completely free to download, print, and use in your classroom. so scroll on down, print some out, and give them a whirl in your classroom today! read more......less filter by level new complete beginner (273) elementary (1178) pre-intermediate (1643) intermediate (1531) upper-intermediate advanced (879) exam level (185) suitable for all levels (121) clear filters filter top articles in this category do you hear what i hear?: 8 activities to improve listening skills how to teach listening skills: best practices 7 great places to look for esl listening material 5 easy listening games for esl beginners how to use popular music to teach esl listening with a purpose: 7 types of esl activities help your esl students improve their listening: 7 ideas that really work how to teach using songs 10 esl activities that will bring music to your ears what you can do with a song: 5 creative esl listening activities dramatically improve the way you teach: check out our writing resources creative writing prompts 1-50 creative writing prompts 51-100 creative writing prompts 101-150 creative writing prompts 151-200 creative writing prompts 201-250 creative writing prompts 251-300 creative writing prompts 301-350 creative writing prompts 351-400 creative writing prompts 401-450 creative writing prompts 451-500 creative writing prompts 501-550 creative writing prompts 551-600 make a word search: create awesome-looking custom word searches in seconds! create now › make a word scramble: instantly create custom word/sentence scrambles for your class! create now › make a double puzzle: generate double puzzles your students will love - hours of fun! create now › esl articles view our latest knowledgebase articles that will help you become a better english teacher. learn from professional teachers and put a bit of your own creativity into it! top 10 tongue twisters: true teacher's treasure? 10 february themed language building activities beyond martin luther king day: teaching argument through the writings of martin luther king wida and access testing: what you need to know how to be a better teacher: the secret recipe that every pro knows view all rate this category 4.3 out of 5, rated by 24 teachers explore listening: esl songs for teaching english 1,788 movie + video + cartoons 1,099 most popular wida and access testing: what you need to know songs to study english: 30-page collection (worksheets + teachers notes) roald dahl: little red riding hood - poem nicky was mugged: past continuous practice bad habits listening from ted: success is a continuous journey the forest personality test listening worksheet: ray kroc by voa song worksheet: all i want for christmas (with video) interview with javier bardem [with video] sort by: most recent | most viewed | rating cat left home alone video worksheet diana castro •past simple, esl songs for teaching english, movie + video + cartoons this worksheet is useful when working with younger children. it's visual. no words. the idea is to captivate student's interest and work on vocabulary and comprehension activities after watching ... 1 12,633 elem handout pride and prejudice with answers wmappleteach •character and personality, tv and video, movie + video + cartoons this handout is for the 2005 movie based on the book, pride & prejudice. this worksheet has listed vocabulary and definitions for each of four scenes. there are a few questions for each scene ... 1 4,990 pre-intintadvexam wida and access testing: what you need to know erikagreen •teaching different ages, speaking, reading comprehension, listening, writing, esl essentials many teachers, especially those new to wida and/or esl teaching, are often overwhelmed and intimidated by the wida standards and access testing. in this article, we attempt to break down the mai ... 1 11,208 begelempre-intintadv miley cyrus - nothing breaks like a heart worksheet busyteacher contributor •music, esl songs for teaching english i just love the song nothing breaks like a heart - miley cyrus and mark ronson and i had to do a worksheet. there are different while-listening activites (order the lines, choose the correct word ... 1 10,832 elempre-intint frosty the snowman (1969) worksheet wmappleteach •christmas, movie + video + cartoons, december this 26 minute frosty the snowman animated video is a classic from 1969. this worksheet is for pre-intermediate and up. it's in eight parts with each part's approximate start and end time listed. ... 1 12,717 pre-intintadv put busyteacher in your inbox sign up for the busyteacher weekly and be the first to get direct links to our latest teaching articles, worksheets and lesson plans. goes out to 323,134 subscribers every wednesday. see last week's issue. yes, sign me up! thank you for joining our mailing list! song worksheet: i heard it through the grapevine samuel hull •listening » esl songs for teaching english this is a worksheet to go with the song "i heard it through the grapevine" by marvin gaye. includes the following tasks while listening to the song: - putting the lines in order - finding the m ... 1 7,367 pre-intint the history of thanksgiving lesson chocolate addict •usa, thanksgiving worksheets, social issues, movie + video + cartoons this is designed for a two-hour class. i first use the quiz to see what the students know about thanksgiving. then they read the text and work on the questions. at the end, we work on the two sho ... 1 13,582 pre-intintadv song worksheet: halloween-the addams family pperez14 •halloween, esl songs for teaching english, october, warmers and fillers first, students have to guess/look up the meaning of some words connected to halloween or scary things. then they have to complete the lyrics of the theme song of the addams family with those wor ... 1 7,176 all esl tv clip lesson | friends | topic: physical beauty robbie - englishteacher •questions and short answers, tv and video, mingling activities, movie + video + cartoons don't stress about lesson preparation! my 1 hour lessons use short english tv video clips and cover speaking, listening, vocabulary and comprehension. download the lesson for classroom use. all ... 1 20,603 pre-intintadv bad habits lesson plan asmaa zedan •character and personality, social issues, movie + video + cartoons this worksheet provides an example of a lesson plan for a vocabulary lesson titled "bad habits". it includes a detailed description of the activities that can be conducted in this lesson. this wo ... 1 12,483 intadv song worksheet - smile kristine44 •feelings and emotions, tv and video, esl songs for teaching english this is a worksheet about the lovely song: “smile” by nat king cole. there is a link to watch the video with the lyrics and the song. i’ve made several exercises: blanks exercis ... 1 17,011 elempre-intint a good teacher is... ayotomi fasuyi •listening » esl songs for teaching english it is a poster that details the qualities of a good teacher. i hope every teacher finds it a useful reminder of the attributes we must possess. i have it pasted on my notice board so i can always ... 1 9,626 all esl tv clip lesson | friends robbie - englishteacher •questions and short answers, tv and video, mingling activities, movie + video + cartoons don't stress about lesson preparation! my 1 hour lessons use short english tv video clips and cover speaking, listening, vocabulary and comprehension. download the lesson for cl ... 1 17,978 pre-intintadv insurance. basic principles of insurance (english for economics and business) anastasiia •business grammar, prepositions and conjunctions, tv and video, movie + video + cartoons the video introduces the basics of insurance, students get familiar with key words to discuss the types of insurance and the risks they can be insured against. the worksheet can be used in genera ... 1 5,567 int old town road song activity - part 1 nadia ramos •teenagers, esl songs for teaching english, movie + video + cartoons this version of the song uses three different listening comprehension strategies. the teacher needs to be aware and explain each part to students so they won't get lost. i recommend teachers to d ... 1 18,705 elempre-intint health and nutrition. is gluten really bad for you? anastasiia •tv and video, medicine and health, movie + video + cartoons the tasks are aimed at pre-intermediate and intermediate students and are based on the video. worksheet focuses on developing listening comprehension and provides ukranian vocabulary translation ... 1 9,320 pre-intint song: i can see clearly now guilherme g tidon •feelings and emotions, weather, esl songs for teaching english, warmers and fillers this is a very simple song and activity which contains vocabulary about weather, as well as some use of 'can' and 'going to' (informally contracted as 'gonna'). there are also some adjectives and ... 1 20,073 begelempre-intintadv maniac from flashdance song worksheet busyteacher contributor •listening » esl songs for teaching english the worksheet contains several different graded activities ( listening-reading-lexical expansion-speaking task) - while also having fun watching the video for the famous song "maniac" from the 198 ... 1 6,892 pre-intint past simple regular verbs jeff genet •past simple, verb, movie + video + cartoons this lesson is full of visual aids and clear examples of when and how to use and form the past simple for irregular verbs. the lesson contains a link to a fun, animated video. this is the perfect ... 1 14,108 begelempre-intint song: penny lane (the beatles) guilherme g tidon •present simple, city and countryside, jobs and professions, esl songs for teaching english in this worksheet, students will work with the song 'penny lane' by the beatles. there are many opportunities to work on different topics here: present simple, body parts, jobs, places in town. th ... 1 15,670 pre-intintadv mr. popper's penguins movie worksheet wmappleteach •animals, humour, movie + video + cartoons it's a 2011 comedy movie based on the book. this worksheet has simple questions based on a few scenes in the movie and a little activity/picture matching. vocabulary: eagle / sailing / character / ... 1 10,720 pre-int history of london from roman times to modern days anastasiia •passive voice, city and countryside, tv and video, movie + video + cartoons the worksheet focuses on the vocabulary describing the features of london from the early days to modern times. the activity is organized around the video. tasks focus on developing listening compr ... 1 18,717 pre-intint loneliness - a video lesson musicatalina •feelings and emotions, social issues, medicine and health, movie + video + cartoons this video is great for raising awareness about loneliness, its possible causes and how to help yourself or others who are in this situation. the worksheet provides you with some questions for dis ... 1 12,012 intadvexam university terms explained - video and fill in the blank activity anastasiia •phrasal verbs, school/university/education, movie + video + cartoons the worksheet focuses on higher education vocabulary and explains words like major, course, and degree. the worksheet helps to work on listening comprehension and speaking skills. students get a c ... 1 6,410 intadv past simple passive video activity - describing tv clips english through videos •passive voice, past simple, movie + video + cartoons help your learners practice their english with this fun video activity. watch the tv show clip and then read the description sentence, which is written in the active voice. change the sentence int ... 1 10,959 intadv got a great worksheet on listening? tell us about it and become a busyteacher contributor! submit a worksheet previous page 1 2 3 4 5 ... 120 next page busyteacher.org copyright 2007-2020 © about submit a worksheet log in terms privacy contact us mobile version working. please wait...