skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » website design » 20 best school websites designs for extremely useful inspiration 2020 20 best school websites designs for extremely useful inspiration 2020 march 15, 2020 colorlib website design 0 comments effectively increase admissions with a school website that can promote the institution’s best services and facilities. undeniably, it’s a potent promotional tool that can build a positive image of the school. here’s a great collection of school websites designs that will blow your mind away. have a glimpse of this inspiration and unleash your creativity. with the birth of digital marketing, almost all brands embrace this powerful tool. whether personal or business, they can build credibility and promote the brand effectively. similarly, educational institutions can take advantage of such a scheme. basically, with a fully responsive and mobile-friendly school website, the virtual office can provide access to the site visitors 24/7. in addition, school websites can well extend class discussions depending on the features of the website. additionally, school websites can easily facilitate enrolment. this way, classes and schedules are a lot easier to disseminate as well as the process of enrolment. these are just a few of the numerous benefits of having a school website. meanwhile, building such great school websites designs need inspiration to be outstanding. whether you opt for a premium theme or outsource an expert in crafting your website, this awesome collection is essential. in this handpicked collection, you can find numerous and various types of school websites. specifically, all of these websites have an exceptional layout, good and clear navigation, professional appearance and of course compelling content. thus, you have ample options on how to finalize your design. so, don’t miss this list and explore it for your upcoming projects. the new school with this modern era, educational institutions need to have a seamless website to effectively promote training services. thus, people can easily browse and enrol for the perfect course they love. in this magnificent school websites designs, you can come up with a wonderful school website. the new school has the leading-edge faculty and world-renowned alumni that are committed to develop students for greatness. this institution is ranked #1 in art and design school in the us. apparently, the website design is pretty amazing with visual hierarchy, good navigation, comprehensible typography. the hero header gives emphasis to the content as it embraces white space with black and red typogpaphy. it also impressed the visitors with the neat and clean success indicators. preview ocean school find out how you can improve the school website project you’re working with these excellent school websites designs. here’s ocean school, a groundbreaking educational experience that uses powerful storytelling techniques, immersive technologies and interactive media. particularly, it uses an inquiry-based approach that advances critical thinking, innovation and environmental awareness. the website is totally impressive and creative that’s ready to engage every audience. the homepage has more interesting web elements and features. even more, the site’s overall design looks extraordinary as it integrates the gsap. hence, the subtle and breathtaking animations enhance the look and feel of the site. preview the new digital school one of the most efficient type of marketing is to create a website that can promote the services well. hence, it is necessary to have several inspiration to explore in building your school website. the new digital school is here to inspire other educational institutions to exceed the audience’ expectations. it’s a new approach to higher education where the student is free to choose what to learn with direct industry contact. specifically, the website design is fresh, modern and advanced. the hero scene has an interesting feature – a student-centered approach to digital design. in this feature, the interested student can choose the field where he would love to learn. it also comes with a super neat layout with descriptive cta and compelling content. it also uses a nice slider, subtle animation, and more. preview world schools choosing the best school is a great challenge for parents. hence, building a website for institutions is necessary. this way, parents will have the idea what school to trust and in turn the institutions can open greater opportunities. these school websites designs are truly magnificent and innovative. world schools is the first international school directory that is available in seven language and international schools all over the world. it has a wonderful website design with outstanding features. apparently, the homepage is full of useful and informative web elements. in the hero scene is the advanced search where the students or parents can browse for the schools using keywords, region & countries plus categories. moreover, the logo, the quality images, sliders, video integration and good typography also looks stunning. preview international grammar school well-structured websites are a demand even for schools and educational institutions. by building an appealing website with welcoming layout, you can easily create a good impression. don’t miss to explore these school websites designs that can help unleash your creativity. international grammar school is a unique independent, co-educational, secular school that offers quality teaching for early learning, primary and high school students. its website is crafted with innovation and advanced features including the gsap. the hero scene introduces the school with quality images using a nice, smooth slider. it also displays a little introductory description of what the school can offer. moreover, the testimonials section appears clean and minimalist as well as compelling. preview salesian college enhance the credibility and make a good impression as you create a website with quality content and user-friendly features. you can start by having a glimpse of these superb school websites designs. salesian college is an educational institution run by catholic for boys school. it aims to equip boys with the knowledge, skills and attitudes to become good christians and honest citizens. well, with such a great goal is a corresponding exceptional website to spread its educational services. the entire website design is awe-inspiring with a great emphasis on subtle animation, visual hierarchy and exceptional layout. the hero header provides a warm welcome with the video integration and great headline. it also utilizes the sticky header to keep the menu, logo and book-a-tour cta. preview porto business school school websites are a great way to market educational institutions. while others may hire adept and creative designers to build an amazing website, there are still numerous ready made themes to explore for your school website. however you build your website, these school websites designs will be of great help for you. porto business school aims to empower people to identify future challenges, create different scenarios and rethink strategies. particularly, the look and feel of the site is pretty amazing and cutting edge. from the awe-inspiring sliders, clean ui elements, subtle animation, and seamless layout these are altogether exceptional. furthermore, the social media links are visible on the footer to have a quick access to the social media pages of the school. preview west bourne grammar get inspired with these school websites designs that will aid you in turning your ideas to reality. in this list, you have wonderful inspiration to examine before you start yours. west bourne grammar is an australian independent and non-denominational christian co-educational day school in truganina. it has a simple but professional-looking website design. in particular, the hero scene features a gray scaled image background with rotating text on it. the overall design of the homepage is impressive and is feature-rich. as the website is more engaging with videos and images, the visitor can find such essential tools on the homepage. to make the site more user-friendly, it uses a huge thumbnails to represent the menu. of course, the sticky header is also one of the best ways to keep the menu at hand, so this site ensures that such feature is apparent. preview lausanne school discover the great opportunities you’ll have when you build your school website. it’s undeniably clear that most people turns to the internet for brands to trust. similarly, schools and educational institutions can embrace the digital marketing too. if you plan to create your website, this list is a must-see. lausanne school is one of the outstanding school websites designs that you should check. it’s an independent, coeducational, nonsectarian school in memphis, tennessee for prekindergarten through 12th grade. specifically, the hero scene has an awesome video background with cta and headline. for the further introductory of this institution, it uses a smooth slider to showcase missions and facts. moreover, the graduates also leaves impressive testimonials for the visitors to examine. preview cis international school websites don’t need to look old-fashioned but should have a professional, fun and exciting design. brace yourself with these remarkable school websites designs that will serve as your guide to yield awe-inspiring site. cis international school exist to empower students to fulfill their potential as responsible, innovative and open-minded global citizens. additionally, it aims to develop the student’s high-quality academic skills and social competencies. as sliders can showcase various relevant contents stylishly, this site ensures that the hero scene is welcoming with such slider. for the menu, the visitor can easily check the different levels of education via huge, square menu. knowing the importance of social media links, this site implements a sticky sidebar to improve visitor retention. preview moorlands school school websites designs are a great inspiration to explore in finalizing your project. with various websites to delve into, you will have different options on how to set up yours. here’s moorlands school one of the professional-looking school websites designs in this list. it endeavours to create a caring, supportive environment that enables each child to develop and shine. the homepage is loaded with amazing elements that can boost the credibility of the institution. specifically, the hero header has a cool video background that features the different scenes of school activities. it also integrates subtle and smooth animation upon scrolling the page. moreover, the high quality images and the attractive typography appears exceptional as they are arranged in majestic manner. preview manhattan school of music different school websites are built to improve the institution’s credibility and reputation. if you’re planning to create such a website soon, you shouldn’t miss these school websites designs we’ve handpicked. manhattan school of music is one of the world’s premier music conservatories for classical music, jazz and musical theatre. the overall design is cutting edge and powerful as it embraces the visual hierarchy and white space with gsap animation. apparently, the sticky menu and the mega menu this website uses manifests a user-friendly navigation. this way, users can easily navigate the site and access essential pages with ease. that’s not all, this site also adds useful and descriptive ctas, video integration and implements cool hover effect. preview uncsa building a website is a great marketing strategy that most brands shouldn’t ignore. as it can reach more audience than without a site, educational and art schools should also embrace it. here’s an inspiring school website design that is worth checking. unsca (university of north carolina school of the arts) is a top-ranked creative and performing arts conservatory in winston-salem, north carolina. it’s a public art school that grants high school, undergraduate and graduate degrees. it has a super elegant and stylish website that can kindle the interest of the students. particularly, this website uses black and white color scheme as well as the gradient web elements. with such perfect combination, the design is totally impressive. furthermore, the site implements video background, stunning hover effect, and outstanding images. preview the art center one of the effective marketing strategies that works best for businesses is to create a good website. if you’re planning to build one for your project, these school websites designs is practically useful. the art center teach the students the fundamentals of art while encouraging creativity, curiosity and individuality. it has a colorful and vibrant design on the homepage that makes an enticing site. additionally, the white space effectively drives attention to the right elements and makes the content more readable. while that attribute is remarkable, the descriptive ctas are all over the homepage to convert visitors to students. other notable features in this site include the sticky header, the off canvas menu, the lively instagram feed and more. preview ascend learning the primary goal of a school website is to convince the students and parents of their expertise and effective training methods. so, as web designers, always pick the finest tools and inspiration to create a seamless website. ascend learning is a network of k-12 public charter schools serving 5500 students in 15 schools across brooklyn-new york. it leads students to a great intellectual adventure, provide them with exceptional college preparatory education. the hero scene has a clean and simple design with clear ctas, simple logo and captivating headline. basically, videos are a great way to engage the audience, with this site, it integrates an interesting video to introduce its institution. the neat and minimalist layout also enhance the look of the site along with the sliders, ctas all over and sticky menu. preview the paris american academy every brand needs to have a marketing scheme that can boost its credibility, reputation and awareness. fortunately, a website is an effective tool to market any product or service. in this list of school websites designs, you will have abundant inspiration to delve into. here’s the paris american academy, an institution that focuses on strong vocational approach to prepare students for careers in fashion, fine arts, creative writing and interior design. the design of the homepage is totally magnificent and breathtaking. the hero header has a cool hover effect with four large menu. as the asymmetrical layout is a great feature to embrace for every site, this institution never ignores such feature. and it never fails! the subtle and smooth animation also adds creativity to the site. preview d. school every school website must be designed well to make a good first impression. with such a great website, it can lead to increased admissions. so, check out this list of inspiration to deliver a good user experience to the users. d.school is one of the finest school websites designs. it’s a place to develop people’s creative abilities. it has a simple design of the hero scene with logo and menu. the nice and smooth animations it embraces makes the overall design excellent. it also has super clean and minimalist layout with user friendly features enough to impress an audience. it also utilizes a sticky header to allow easy access to other necessary pages. moreover, this site also offers two options to showcase content – the standard visuals and the simplified visuals. preview woodhouse groove school building a website is a good investment. it shouldn’t be ignored as it can enhance the reputation of the school. here’s a great list of school websites designs that will empower your brand. woodhouse groove school is an independent, co-educational day and boarding public school. aiming to improve credibility with web presence, its website is created with simplicity but well-organized web elements. through its mobile friendly site, visitors can easily connect with the school anytime, anywhere. it integrates a video on the hero header to welcome every visitor. the cool animation upon scrolling adds charm to the overall design not to mention the quality images and the good typography it embraces. preview edible schoolyard nyc crafting a school website offers a great opportunity for any institution to reach a wider audience and increase the admissions. if you’re working with such a website, you shouldn’t ignore these school websites designs. edible schoolyard nyc is commissioned to cultivate healthy students and communities through hands-on cooking and gardening education, transforming children’s relationship with food. the design of the website is simple but striking. it uses green as the primary color of the site which denotes nature and energy. it has the necessary web elements on the hero scene the ctas that are useful and video integration to introduce the firm’s mission clearly. explore this website and get inspired with your designs. preview generation school pick the ideal inspiration for your next school website project from this awe-inspiring collection. here’s generation school, an educational institution that implements an individual approach with team of professionals and friendly, comfortable environment. it has a great and professional school website where parents and guardians can learn of the school’s mission and values. specifically, the website design is superb with exceptional web elements added to the homepage to convey the message clearly. the social media icons, clear cta, headline and stunning images all appear seamless with subtle animation. it introduces the institution with charm and creativity so the audience have ample ideas on how it offers educational services. other notable features include video integration, sliders, and animation upon scrolling. preview thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. educationschoolwebsite designwebsite examples share this share tweet pin it share related posts 18 best hair salon websites design for awesome inspiration 2019 special occasion calls for gorgeous looks which primarily include professional hairstyles. luckily, you can find… 20 best bakery websites design for inspiration 2019 celebrating moments of happiness is definitely incomplete without bakery products. these freshly baked goodies serve… 18 best car dealer websites for efficient car dealership 2019 today we'll look at the best car dealer website designs to understand what works and… 20 best gaming blog designs for inspiration 2019 need inspiration for gaming blog designs? we have selected the best and most popular gaming… 19 best carpentry websites inspiration to reinforce brands 2019 looking for potential ways to enhance your carpentry business? perhaps you’ve overlooked the influential and… 18 best massage websites design to inspire massage therapists 2019 massage therapy is growing in demand and prominence. almost all adults understand its essence and… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: top website design & development services next post: 20 stunning websites with exceptional contact form designs 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×