skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 20 best wordpress bbpress forum and community themes in 2020 20 best wordpress bbpress forum and community themes in 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars theme collections 64 comments you are in the right place if you are looking for wordpress forum themes based on bbpress! we very much like bbpress and even use it for our theme support forum and i think you will like it too. if you are a wordpress user and would like to integrate a forum into your website, then bbpress is the right choice for you! wordpress developers designed bbpress to help users set up a forum as an additional feature on their wordpress site. installing a forum solution for your website can help you boost your web presence, strengthen your online brand, and establish relationships with other people within your niche or industry. the bbpress plugin allows you to include a forum on your existing website without changing your default theme style. this community forum solution concentrates on ease of use and responsiveness. below is a list of wordpress forum and community themes based on bbpress that may suit your business needs. wordpress forum themes we made sure that all of thee themes are compatible with the latest version of wordpress and all the popular plugins to make sure that you get the best solution and your visitors get the best user experience. without further hesitation, let’s have a look at the best and most popular forum wordpress themes of 2020. buddyboss buddyboss is the most advanced yet easy to use forum wordpress theme for any category. the internet currently permeates all aspects of our social and personal lives. at its core, the online world is based on a simple principle: long-distance interaction. thankfully, bbpress themes, such as boss, still value that core principle and seek to facilitate social networking and buddypress integration. it will enhance every aspect of your page, increasing site traffic and user retention rates. if you want to experience its features first-hand, be sure to check out the live theme demo. boss allows you to personalize your social network regardless of your skill level. no coding or programming knowledge is required. you may alter the color scheme of your site or select one of the pre-made palette variations. in addition, you can customize the widgets, logos, cover photos, and navigation. the theme incorporates shortcodes for inputs, buttons, tabs, tooltips, and progress bars. of course, your social networking site must accommodate as many users as possible. boss is translation-ready, able to display your content into any language. similar to other pages that focus on interaction, your website will have live notifications. you will not be required to constantly refresh your page to stay updated. overall, this is one of the best buddypress/wordpress themes, given its overwhelming quality and affordable price. more info / download helpguru helpguru is a clean and modern knowledge base theme with a built in support forum that supports your products or services in style. its useful set of features provides an amazing framework for building an interactive knowledge base website. you can easily organize your content using the drag-and-drop system, and adding attachments and downloadable files is a breeze. visitors can rate articles, giving you feedback on what content your users find the most (or the least) useful. also, the live ajax search feature improves the user experience by eliminating unnecessary page loads. with the helpguru theme, you can use the live customizer of wordpress to get a live preview of the changes you make to the site. this theme provides the bbpress plugin to help you easily add a discussion forum on your website. more info / download demo leadengine leadengine is a serious deal when it comes to the best and most refined wordpress forum theme based on bbpress. by default, leadengine is a multi-purpose theme with a handy page builder that helps you build pretty much any type of website. when it comes to crafting forum sites, not only does leadengine have a full demo at your disposal, you can completely customize it however you fancy. you can use the demo both as your main and only page or an addition to your existing website. no matter how hard you go on the web design adjusting-wise, leadengine makes sure the end product always works seamlessly across all platforms. it is a responsive and cross-browser compatible wordpress bbpress theme with numerous features and unlimited options. implement your creativity to the process of establishing your forum and you unlock a whole new horizon of possibilities. kick things off in style, encourage people to participate and grow your community with leadengine. more info / download demo jollyany jollyany is an all-in-one business and corporate wordpress forum theme designed by jollythemes. this bright and modern theme offers infinite customization possibilities and functionalities to your website. its clean and ingenious design is ideal for photography, portfolio showcases, trendy businesses, agencies, fashion, blogs, shops, personal use, etc. specifically, jollyany is coded with html5 and css3 and is built based on the bootstrap grid system and powerful elements. this theme is 100% responsive to different kinds of devices and is retina-ready to provide great user experience. it offers three different header styles, infinite color schemes, google fonts, font awesome icons, 69 psd files, 70+ custom widgets and modules, and tons of powerful shortcodes. it also includes an easy-to-use admin panel (powered by vafpress framework) that enables you to edit the basic elements of your website, such as the color scheme, the background image, the header, and so forth. its other features allow you to present your content in an organized and presentable way, such as custom post formats, custom post types, portfolio templates, custom shop templates, and maintenance mode page. when you purchase jollyany, you get premium wordpress plugins for free, such as the visual page builder, the mega main menu plugin, and revolution slider. this theme is also compatible with buddypress and bbpress and is fully integrated with the woocommerce plugin. more info / download demo ekko ekko is a multi-purpose wordpress forum theme with unlimited options and possibilities. with ekko, you can kick off any page type you want and easily add a forum to it. on the other hand, create a full-blown forum which you can later also expand with a blog and an online store. to cut a long story short, use your wild imagination and let ekko realize your ideas without a hitch. the design of ekko is super clean and minimalistic with excellent attention to detail. it also comes with social media icons, customizable sidebar, footer reveal function and different widgets. no to mention, the layout is responsive and in tune with browsers and retina screens. default settings of ekko include speed and seo optimization, too. more info / download demo kleo kleo is an exceptionally versatile forum wordpress theme whose design meets all your needs for a modern theme. this stylish and trendy theme is suitable for portfolios, business websites, blogs, photography websites, and restaurant pages. it doesn’t matter whether you are a professional or an amateur. you can easily customize this theme because it provides you all the necessary tools. to be specific, kleo incorporates a responsive and user-friendly admin interface. with these advanced features, you are able to add unlimited sidebars and colors, change the layout type, alter fonts, choose between masonry and standard views, and many more. another advantage of kleo is that its visual composer layout builder and powerful shortcodes do not require you to write a single line of code to build a professional website. of course, it also supports the buddypress and bbpress plugin to help you build a forum for your website in no time. a detailed review of the kleo buddypress theme is available here. more info / download demo oswad oswad is a responsive supermarket wordpress forum theme ideal for individuals or companies who want to create a fully functional marketplace online. this theme comes with four attention-grabbing homepage styles with four stores that you can use for your website. it employs bootstrap technology and is works with all popular screen resolutions. oswad particularly offers tons of customization options, such as advanced header settings, extensive fontawesome icon integration, unlimited color options, custom layouts, and over 20 custom widgets. it uses an intuitive admin panel that enables you to easily customize your theme to match your personal or business requirements. additionally, oswad has the wordpress visual composer plugin by wpbakery, making it easier for you to create a unique and organized page layout for your website. other than this, you have the premium revolution slider plugin to assist you in producing stylish sliders with amazing effects and animations that will certainly grab the attention of anyone who visits your website. further, you can take advantage of oswad’s built-in mega menu, fantastic portfolio integration, compare and wishlist support, and bbpress and woocommerce plugin integration. more info / download demo omega omega is well-known for its flexibility and responsiveness. this multi-use theme allows you to create a website without much effort. it includes a visual composer plugin that enables you to create spectacular pages with ease. it also comes with a child theme that makes theme customization trouble-free and update-proof. omega’s woocommerce plugin integration allows you to sell products online. moreover, you are free to install a forum on your website because omega is built with bbpress integration. this theme is designed not only to look good but also to perform efficiently on any handheld device, too. this multipurpose theme is equipped with a powerful admin panel to facilitate easy site customization, and it offers unlimited options to create stunning pages. omega is retina-ready and comes with amazing features like a custom mega menu, a huge selection of admin options, unlimited web fonts, and the layerslider plugin. it is also translation-ready and has a responsive layout. more info / download demo one one is a creative multipurpose portfolio theme that supports the bbpress plugin. this all-around wordpress theme helps you set up and manage your forum site easily. it contains almost all the greatest features necessary in creating an outstanding website or forum site. its sophisticated page builder enables you to create infinite layout combinations. one boasts of its impressive wordpress customizer that can transform your site into a professional website. it has a very straightforward layout with tons of options you can choose from. you may consider using simple backgrounds and overlay management with a boxed or an extended appearance. with its new full-width slideshows, you can flaunt your impressive portfolio or showcase your project images and videos as slideshows. the one wordpress theme makes it easy for you to create albums and photo galleries with no trouble. in addition, this theme has woocommerce integration, so you can sell your products or creations. more info / download demo olympus olympus is a fantastic wordpress bbpress forum theme that helps you quick-start your community and/or social network. avoid hiring a coder or a designer to create a web platform for you from scratch. now you can do it with ease using olympus and get things moving forward in as little as no time. seriously, when you see how much-predesigned content olympus brings to the table, you will instantly understand how simple it is to create a forum and start a community. there are tons of fantastic options that you can take to your advantage for creating a fully functional social network. from mobile profiles, comments, login page, video albums, post reactions and all the rest in between, start your thing with olympus. it only takes a click to install the demo and you are closer than ever to launching your own online platform for a loyal community you will grow. more info / download demo middo middo is a modern and professional wordpress theme that fully supports forum creation with the useful bbpress plugin. ideal for creative agencies and freelancers, middo is also versatile and adaptable enough to fit other businesses and projects. use your imagination and employ middo however you see it fit best. there is no requirement to stick to the default settings when you can adjust and enhance the web design to your liking hassle-free. when it comes to features, middo includes all the necessary, as well as follows all the latest technology trends and web regulations. other goods come in the form of parallax background, three navigation menus, custom headers and search engine optimization. middo is also fully translatable for you to tailor your website for your local area precisely. take things to the next level with middo and see epic results coming your way. more info / download demo squadforce squadforce is an extraordinary wordpress bbpress forum theme for the gaming industry. if you are looking to turn your passion into profits by starting a new online project, you can now make it happen with the use of squadforce. with its dark and bold look, squadforce ensures a striking appearance that will blow everyone away. whether you have any or no experience at all, with squadforce, you will witness a spectacular result in a little breeze. in the bundle of goodness, squadforce offers tons of features for your convenience. awesome navigability, tournaments, woocommerce shop, galleries, news section, automatic updates, you name it, squadforce delivers tons of stuff that will place you right on top. the layout is responsive and in tune with modern web browsers, too. enter the gaming world with a bang. more info / download demo radica radica is a striking and multi-functional wordpress theme with full bbpress support. if you would like to spread the word out for your project as quickly as possible, you better not miss checking out radica. at the time of writing this, you already get elven striking demos, but there are more to come. let’s face it, radica is an always expanding theme that makes sure your page runs and operates without a hitch for years to come. with the integrated drag and drop page builder, you can modify the appearance of radica to the very last detail. or, you can also use the demo that resonates with you best as is. pick between wide and boxed layouts, brand the look, start a blog and enjoy all the very many different custom-made widgets. with radica, you are just short moments away from developing a top-notch online presence for your business. more info / download demo cera cera is a sophisticated intranet and community wordpress theme compatible with the excellent bbpress plugin. you can pick between four different demos, all resourceful and easy to use. moreover, you can also choose between dark and light layouts and perform additional customization tweaks so the outcome practices your branding directions precisely. before we dive in further, do understand that cera follows all the trends and regulations of the modern web. in the enormous bundle of features, you will find all the necessary to start on the web like a pro. from user dashboard, paid and free membership and private messages to activities wall and global ajax search, cera sports it all and an array more. along with the two main objectives, you can also use cera for all sorts of different intentions. in conclusion, turn your idea into a reality with the superb cera. more info / download demo jawn if your plan is to start a compelling online news or magazine website, consider adding a forum section and start the discussions as well. jawn is a wordpress forum theme with a horde of features and assets that gets you online at the speed of lightning. jawn is equipped with a stunning and attention-grabbing demo that will impress all your visitors and encourage them to see what’s hot. no matter if you are starting a niche or a generic online magazine, jawn alters to all effortlessly. jawn is also rtl- and retina-ready, mobile-friendly, optimized for search engines and woocommerce compatible. other features are automatic posts loading, infinite scroll, built-in disqus comments and multiple premium plugins at no additional cost. jawn is also fully monetizable with preset ad placements and simple google adsense implementation. more info / download demo truemag choose truemag for guaranteed website monetization! this is not only ad & adsense optimized. it also supports the bbpress plugin. you can deliberately position ads in hotspots and blend them with the content to give your website or forum site a professional look. truemag has a clean and responsive layout that makes your website perform smoothly on any type of device. it provides an incredible admin panel that allows you to choose a color that suits your brand, alter the single post page, change fonts, and so on. you can also build your own online store using truemag because it has amazing support for woocommerce. other amazing features include custom widgets, a color picker, unlimited font options, and functional shortcodes. more info / download demo zippco zippco is an all-around wordpress theme for business and finance consulting with an option to expand it with a bbpress forum. the tool comes with several ready-made homes, different internal pages and five stunning header styles. additionally, zippco also includes fifteen pre-loader animations, tons of theme customization options and an assortment of handy custom widgets. with zippco, you can create the exact web space that you desire without the need to do any of the hard work. that’s correct, there will be no coding involved. other treats of zippco contain custom sidebars, boxed layout, child theme, online appointments, unlimited colors, revolution slider and social media integration. zippco is mobile-ready, as well as optimized for speed and search engines. documentation and support are available for all zippco users, too. start your online space today with zippco, create a community and grow your business to the next level. more info / download demo netube if you would like to start a video-focused website, netube is the right solution for you. you can also use it as a wordpress bbpress forum theme as it is fully compatible with the plugin. instead of just sharing compelling content with the world to enjoy, you can now also start a forum and create an online hub where everyone will enjoy hanging out, sharing thoughts, opinions and other whatnot. netube comes with five full-blown demos and tons of other features and functions that will keep your website of the highest degree. netube is also fully translatable, easy to modify and fast loading. many custom widgets, like social and weather, are also part of the deal for you to take to your advantage. you can drag and drop all netube sections, avoiding programming altogether. more info / download demo tessera tessera is a wordpress bbpress forum theme for knowledge base, help desk and online support web platform. it comes with a bunch of different home layouts which you can employ right away. even if using the default settings of tessera, you can still hammer out a replica of the demo content you find on the live preview page. still, if you would like to fine-tune the layout, do it at free will as tessera supports all and every customization tweak you would like to perform. of course, with the handy and convenient dragging and dropping technology. core features of tessera are fluid and responsive layout, cross-browser compatibility, seo-friendliness and elementor page builder. you can pick any colors you want, implement a live search function and even create a rating system. thanks to the comprehensive documentation and support, you will never feel lonely when doing the work with tessera. more info / download demo church and events church and events is a wordpress theme specially designed for churches and events with a variety of modern website development trends integration. this fully responsive theme is ideal for both users with very little knowledge in programming and seasoned website developers. the theme includes different advanced features to help you create an awesome website for church events. it comes with a pixel-perfect design, css and parallax effects, large-sized elements, scrolling effects, and metro-style icons and fonts on each page of the theme. to make theme customization fast and easy, it has a handy drag-and-drop page builder, tons of shortcodes, unlimited colors and font options, useful plugins, and fantastic widgets. other features include the woocommerce plugin and bbpress integration. if you want to keep your visitors or followers informed about your upcoming events and activities, church and events further supports the event calendar pro, filter bar, and community events add-ons. you can find more awesome wordpress themes for church and religious websites here. more info / download demo vellum vellum is a flexible wordpress theme that is perfect for any kind of website. it is a modern theme with so much potential as it is fully responsive, seo-friendly, and easy to customize for better performance. vellum’s distinctive structure allows you to create a unique layout design for your website. it incorporates oodles of wonderful features, including a drag-and-drop page composer, ubermenu mega menus, parallax backgrounds, and many more. its powerful slider plugin gives your website and slideshows an extra appeal that will surely draw the attention of your target visitors or readers. more info / download demo impreza without a doubt, small details make a huge impression. impreza ensures that all its elements complement one another and create a positive impact on the viewers or visitors. this theme accomplishes this through a responsive and flexible design that makes certain that the theme looks wonderful and runs smoothly on different kinds of handheld devices. one of impreza’s best features is its strong support for bbpres integration. it also incorporates woocommerce compatibility, animated columns and images on any page, advanced typography options, extensive style options with unlimited colors, parallax effect backgrounds, and a slider resolution. impreza has a built-in drag-and-drop page builder as well to help you create a homepage that truly embodies your brand. more info / download demo couldn’t find the right wordpress forum theme for your project? let us know in the comment section below what features are you looking for and we’ll try to help the right theme for you. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. bbpressbootstrapbuddypresscommunityforumwoocommercewordpress themes share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts make a profit with these 10 best woocommerce themes for your dropshipping business drop-shipping business is gaining popularity all over the world. doesn't it sound luring that you… 31 best html5 wordpress themes for startup websites, magazines and blogs 2020 the world is a constantly shape-shifting place, where the only constant thing is change itself.… 30+ awesome wordpress portfolio themes to showcase your work with style 2020 looking for a wordpress theme to showcase your portfolio online? that's exactly what we'll look… top popular wordpress radio station themes for any genre radio station 2020 we’ve heard it countless times—the internet is the future. we’ve heard it so long it’s… 10+ best virtual assistant wordpress themes if you are a provider of consulting services, that is looking for ways to go… top 20+ city services wordpress themes 2019 big city life can be quite intricate. which is why it is so important to… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue 13 amazing paid wordpress advertising plugins 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (122) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 31 awesome technology news magazine wordpress themes 2020 next post: 13 best wordpress taxi booking themes 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×