skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 20 best handyman wordpress themes for handyman services & home repair 2020 20 best handyman wordpress themes for handyman services & home repair 2020 january 3, 2020 colorlib theme collections 0 comments frustrated with leaky sinks at home? or you’ve been currently distracted with a broken air conditioner? if you’re restless with these small but annoying issues in the home, office or school, then you probably need a hand from handyman! handymen are adept with trade skills, repair work, and maintenance work for both residential and commercial services. the skills of a handyman are valuable in many areas and while they vary in quality, professionalism and skill level the meticulous services they offer to home and firms are incredibly priceless! for that reason, a handyman must have websites that will exhibit a level of expertise, years of experience, skill set, awesome services and other essential details. instead of advertising on print media, as a handyman, you ought to have a web presence. in that case, these handyman wordpress themes are practically useful. wordpress platform has been gaining popularity over the years with its capability to make website building a breeze and management a piece of cake! today, wordpress powers 33.6% of all websites. and these people who trust their business to this platform never fails to acquire the best with quality performance and outstanding features. similarly, when you opt for handyman wordpress themes, you build a website easily and quickly without compromising the quality and function. so, improve your credibility as an adept handyman and pick your favorite theme from this list! betheme be the skilled handyman that offers both residential and commercial services. then pick the ideal theme from these handyman wordpress themes. built to provide the complete solution to every business, betheme comes with numerous 450+ demos for different concepts. equipped with a variety of tools, plugins, and flexible features, this theme can definitely improve business and individual’s web presence. this lightweight theme won’t give you hassle in the installation process as it utilizes the one-click install feature. betheme also comes with a variety of layouts such as full width, boxed, left sidebar, right and dual. as for the header, numerous styles are also added in the package to provide ample options for your handyman website. apart from plugins, there are also 200+ shortcodes that will help fortify the theme. you may also build a beautiful ecommerce with betheme as this integrates the woocommerce plugin. hence, setting up your online store is a breeze! you may also check the video tutorials if you have questions upon using the theme! more info / download demo constructo handyman services are well equipped and well trained, so you can expect a great level of expertise from them. if you’re a handyman who needs a theme for online presence, constructo is a great option. it’s a modern and professional theme that comes with 11+ ready-to-use demos all dedicated to construction and handyman services. this theme has ample plugins integrated into the theme, so it will stand out in the competition. specifically, constructo is compatible with the wpbakery page builder, for easy editing and creation of website pages. moreover, with the slider revolution plugin integration, constructo can help you craft amazing sliders with cool animation. thus, multiple contents will look graceful whether they’re images, testimonials, text or links. what’s more? it also integrates the woocommerce plugin for selling products within your website. with a huge collection of color pallet, this theme allows you to use your own color scheme. with the advanced admin panel, you have full control of your website from layout, fonts, and other elements. more info / download demo renovate handyman knows a wide range of repairs. thus, they ought to have the best website to advertise such skills on the web. here’s renovate, a construction theme that can make a wonderful impression of handyman’s capabilities and services. renovate has 2 amazing demos for handyman or repair/remodeling company. this theme is a top notch choice for robust, reliable, professional and responsive handyman website. it’s also fully responsive and retina ready so they look good on all devices. thus, you increase visibility on search engines and improve lead generation. with the slider revolution plugin, you can build modern and sleek sliders without hassle. renovate also has built-in cost calculator that helps your clients calculate the final cost of a particular job. what’s more? this theme uses a smart sticky menu for any column, color picker for the entire color scheme in just a single click. other useful features include isotope gallery, parallax backgrounds, google location map, social icons and more! more info / download demo construction flush all your worries over the home repairs as you call for the expertise of a handyman. and if you’re a handyman who wishes to build authenticity online, construction theme is a magnificent help. construction is a perfect choice for various business activity like painting, decorating, carpentry and handyman services. specifically, this theme has 6 unique and amazing demos all dedicated to construction services. as you opt for construction you can then start playing with the theme’s drag and drop editor as it utilizes the one-click install feature. bundled with wordpress plugins, this theme is ready to improve business and individual’s career. additionally, this theme lets you build and manage an online store with ease. thanks to the powerful woocommerce plugin, achieving your goal is just a few clicks away. for crafting stunning sliders, this theme also embraces the slider revolution. moreover, the yoast seo plugin also empowers this theme to be search engine friendly. more info / download demo renovation when disaster strikes in the home or any establishments, handyman services come like heroes! hence, an adept handyman ought to have a website to represent services and skills online. here’s renovation, a construction theme that fits to be in these handyman wordpress themes. it comes with clean and modern design along with cool features and functionality. renovation has a built-in drag and drop page builder to easily craft pages in no time! with such feature, building your website from scratch isn’t an issue at all. you just mix and match the elements and see which one fits the other! moreover, this theme integrates the boosted elements addon so you can create sliders, maps, pop ups and other useful plugins. in addition, you can craft slides that look beautiful and are innovative. having unlimited colors, this handyman wordpress theme enables you to change the look of the site and apply your own color scheme for branding purposes. it also has mega menu, sticky header, ecommerce support via woocommerce plugin and more! more info / download demo repair service renovation handyman advertises their works through flyers and mailings. that’s an awesome strategy to boost a career. however, you can be more competitive when you opt for a website that will showcase your skills and capabilities. here’s repair service renovation, a home maintenance, repair service theme that is a perfect choice for handyman website. this theme has 7+ amazing demos that awaits for your construction-related and handyman sites. it’s built with compatibility to elementor page builder for a speedy and fun page building even without skills in coding. however, if you prefer to use the wpbakery page builder plugin that’s also possible as this theme gives you the option to choose from those powerful and easy-to-use page builders. other plugins bundled in this theme includes slider revolution for beautiful and stylish sliders; essential grid for a highly customizable grid; and woocommerce for easy online store management. more info / download demo bluecollar as people typically look for brands to trust on the internet these days, a skilled handyman must adapt to this strategy to boost career path. if you plan to create your website, bluecollar is ready to lend help. it’s a handyman & renovation wordpress theme that has a clean and mobile-friendly design. it has 2 homepage layouts that you can take advantage of for your handyman profession. bluecollar has a unique design of the homepage where the services in grid style greet each visitors of your website. this straightforward, attractive and informative design will give your visitors or potential clients a clear view of what services and expertise you specialize. you may also display your portfolio nicely and professionally as each project can have several custom fields and gallery. it also has galleries to exhibit examples of works in a beautiful manner. for sharing useful tips, the blog page is ready to improve your online visibility. more info / download demo renovat renovat is a handyman wordpress theme for a quick website fix. with a modern home page design, you can start growing your business like a pro. it is the website that helps you push your services over and beyond. moreover, you can also offer potential clients to learn more about your pricing, as well as request a call back. along with the index page, there are also very many different inner layouts for you to mix and match accordingly. wpbakery page builder, slider revolution, online shop layout, sticky navigation and nifty animations are other specialties that every renovat user gets. even if you are super busy with running your business, you will still find enough time to build a professional page with renovat. enjoy the ready-made contents, introduce your branding and call it a day. more info / download demo smartman smartman is another stunning and resourceful handyman wordpress theme with all the necessities and then some. when you are in the process of building a new page or redesigning an existing one, with smartman, you can make an immediate difference. it is a tool that offers you loads of front and internal page layouts, as well as very many elements and components. one of the speediest processes of realizing a business website would be to mix and match the available, add you details and other custom content and that is basically it. of course, you can always step things up and customize smartman accordingly. with the use of king composer pro builder, you do not really need to be an expert coder nor designer to refine smartman. kick things off with the one click installation process and go from there. whether you go with the sample exactly as is or you plan to fine-tune it further, the outcome will always be top-notch with smartman. more info / download demo krafty krafty is a flexible handyman wordpress theme with twelve different samples. you can use the tool for anything from plumbing and electrical services to carpeting, flooring and wall painting, to name a few. of course, you can easily tailor each demo to your needs and expand krafty’s potential over and beyond. on the flip side, by using any of the ready-made solutions, you save yourself a ton of time and energy. in just a few customization tweaks, you get to alter krafty, so it practices your directions to a t. besides the twelve niche demos, krafty also includes all sorts of other goodness. with the use of the visual page building technique, you can start the process comfortably. additionally, in the krafty kit, you also discover a working contact form, slider revolution, different color schemes and multiple headers and footers. more info / download demo airpro simple repairs may cause inconvenience and distractions but not when you let handyman handle the job for you! so, for this type of profession, a good website will help a lot to improve career. airpro is one of the awesome handyman wordpress themes that will give you a competitive edge. it’s actually an air conditioning, cooling/heating and ventilation theme that has 2 awesome pre-built websites. aside from the clean, minimal and clutter-free design, this amazing package comes with powerful and useful wordpress plugins. specifically, airpro is fully compatible with the visual composer for easy, quick and modern page building. also, you have full control of your website as you have the option to mix and match elements. moreover, this theme integrates the woocommerce plugin for selling electronic products with ease. for the hero header, this theme utilizes cool slider, descriptive call-to-action, stunning images and comprehensive copy. with such elements, your website can well represent your capabilities and services. more info / download demo plumbing for minor plumbing works and repairs, you can entrust that to a handyman. and if you’re a handyman that doesn’t have the ideal website yet, plumbing is a great choice as an effective theme. it’s a wordpress theme that comes with 3 useful demos for plumbing, construction, carpentry or handyman services. this theme ensures that you can quickly and easily install the theme without hassle using the one-click install feature. moreover, the plugins, widgets and shortcodes never fail to enhance the theme’s overall performance. hence, this theme integrates the elementor page builder for creating the pages with ease. it also embraces the slider revolution for crafting excellent sliders that are fully responsive. meanwhile, the online booking appointment feature enables the clients to book an appointment easily using your website. for creating and managing multiple forms, this theme also integrates the contact form 7 and mailchimp. check out other features to see if this theme fits your taste. more info / download demo construction if you want to avail the services of a professional handyman, you can look for them on the web. meanwhile, a handyman must have a website to showcase works and portfolio online. here’s construction, a feature-rich wordpress theme that comes with various 4+ remarkable demos. each of these demos has different styles that are intended to boost your career as a handyman. in addition, you can install this theme using one-click install feature so you can head start and save much time in building your website. this theme also comes with a video tutorial to learn more about setting up the website using this theme. construction also integrates important and functional plugins. these include visual composer to crafts pages fast and easy; woocommerce for easy and secure management of online store; slider revolution for displaying contents the beautiful and elegant manner; contact form 7 for managing multiple contact forms within your website; yoast seo for an seo-friendly website and more! more info / download demo woodworker a residential and commercial building needs prompt services so they don’t cause problems or issues if left unfixed. that’s where a handyman can do the rescue! so, for individuals who work as a handyman, they must have an excellent website to tell potential clients what they can do. here’s woodworker, one of the handyman wordpress themes that’s worth to trust. this theme has 3 homepage layouts that a handyman can take advantage of for an awesome portfolio. it comes with a clean, minimalist and comprehensive design and is ready to impress potential clients. crafted using bootstrap framework, woodworker adapts to any devices so it can improve and widen the reach of handyman websites. it has a nice portfolio layout where you can display successful projects you’ve worked into. for clients to get a quick quote for services you offer, woodworker has a great form just below the hero section so it’s very accessible. other features include live customizer, mega menu, parallax sections, unlimited color and more! more info / download demo homefix a handyman can be described as “jack of all trades”. with the bunch of skills of a handyman, he deserves to acquire more leads using an excellent website. here’s homefix, a handyman and maintenance wordpress theme that has a modern design, cool functionality and innovative layout. this theme also has 3 unique demos that are best to use for plumbing, carpentry, refurbishment and other related services. packed with awesome plugins, bunch of widgets and shortcodes, this theme can serve best the needs of a handyman website. it also has numerous essential pages that include about, services, blog, shop, pricing plans, contact page and others. homefix has a beautiful and informative booking page. specifically, a potential client can select what type of services available for them, select the staff and the date of the appointments. since blogging effectively improves the ranks on search engines, homefix, ensures that each story will be published well without compromising the readability and typography. more info / download demo boldman when you opt for web presence, make sure you have the right themes to save you from tedious coding and will spice up boring designs. here’s boldman, one of the exceptional handyman wordpress themes that’s ideal for carpentry, home repair, air conditioning and other similar services. this theme has 6 amazing and ready-to-use demos that are all 100% responsive and cross-browser compatible. this bootstrap template can efficiently fulfill your dreams as it comes with the essential features you need to fully run and manage a handyman website. the theme is highly customizable and can be installed without hassle. moreover, its modern design, various blog layouts and portfolio layouts can well represent your expertise, experiences and successful works. what’s more? this theme is also jam-packed with 100+ shortcodes, 5 header styles and 30 inner pages. if you wish to use your color scheme for branding, that’s pretty easy to implement with this theme as it offers unlimited color options for setting up your website. more info / download demo handyman if you’re an entrepreneur who wants to create a job portal for handymen, this theme is just the right option for your journey! here’s handyman, a job board wordpress theme that is ideal for job listing, job directory website for electricians, plumbers, handymen, etc. it’s a magnificent solution for crafting job portals created with powerful wordpress plugins, widgets and shortcodes. handyman has 4 homepage versions that have visually appealing designs. it is built using bootstrap so it will have a consistent awesome user interface in diverse devices. for easy, quick and reliable job directory website, handyman integrates the wp job manager plugin for building and managing an organized job board site. it also embraces the resume manager for managing resume submissions and resume listings. another useful plugin included in this theme is the reviewer for inserting reviews and comparison tables in the posts. see other amazing features this theme has to offer for your job directory website. more info / download demo fixology find the best handyman you could hire for immediate repairs in the residential or commercial properties. for easy and quick results, you can look for them online. but for a handyman who isn’t visible online, you missed a lot and will miss even greater opportunities when you let these handyman wordpress themes slip out of your hand. here’s fixology, a handyman multi-service theme that comes with 3 useful and resourceful pre-built website along with a set of cool and functional pages. equipped with various plugins, this theme will help you efficiently manage an online presence. moreover, fixology ensures that you have a similar awesome privilege of other modern themes when it comes to page building. with the wpbakery page builder this theme has, you can now drag and drop elements to finish the pages of your website. it also integrates the slider revolution for a more creative and elegant display of multiple contents like images, testimonials, services and others. while that works well for the theme, it also integrates the events calendar, contact form 7, woocommerce and a lot more! more info / download demo handyman if you have the right skills and ample experience in handyman service, this collection of handyman wordpress themes is a must-see! here’s handyman, another repair and renovation theme that has a simple yet elegant design for renovation, plumbing, electrical works, carpentry and any other handyman services. this theme has 3 out-of-the-box demos and are fully responsive. powered by unyson framework and bootstrap, handyman lets you create countless pages using the drag and drop feature with a mobile-first design. knowing the importance of typography, this theme added the google fonts, icomoon and font awesome icons. now you can enhance the theme’s typography with these elements on it. aside from that, this theme also has 12 custom widgets, 22 psd files, accesspress social counter integration, mailchimp subscribe, instagram feed and more! more info / download demo handyman be more competitive with an outstanding website ready to impress clients and improve visibility. here’s handyman, a construction and repair services theme that has useful and practical design perfect for handyman services website. this theme has modern, functional and responsive design built with abundant plugins. this theme also has 3 stunning homepage layouts that you choose from. with the desire to generate more leads, handyman enables the potential client to book online appointments on certain services. with this theme, you can also create an online store without putting much effort as it is compatible with the woocommerce plugin. for creating sliders, you can make it more attractive and engaging with the slider revolution plugin this theme adapts. other useful features include shortcode builders, custom options panel, widgets and more to explore! more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. cleanconstructionhandymanrenovationrepair serviceswordpress themes share this share tweet pin it share related posts top 27 wordpress insurance themes for insurance agencies and lawyers 2020 let's have a look at the best and most popular insurance wordpress themes for insurance… 20 awesome purple website templates 2019 purple is one of the most mysterious colors, we often relate to magic. there is… top party making & celebration planning wordpress themes 2019 a little party never killed nobody. so, today we are going to celebrate a premium… 51 best responsive woocommerce wordpress themes to build awesome estore 2020 let's look at best woocommerce themes for any ecommerce category. we have selected themes with… the most popular gaming wordpress themes are you are an old good participant of the online gaming community that is burning… top 22 dark wordpress themes to make your website look serious and professional 2020 beauty is in the eye of the beholder, says the sage. yet some beauties are… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 18 best electrician website templates (html & wordpress) 2020 next post: 10+ best knowledge base, wiki, faq & support ticket wordpress themes and plugins – 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×