skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2019 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2019 april 19, 2019 aigars silkalns plugins 0 comments the footer of any website is usually a very much neglected space. this is not a good practice especially when every bit of design effort is geared towards attracting and holding a viewer’s attention. in such a scenario, can you really afford to ignore any area of the screen space on your website? these wordpress footer plugins will help you to optimize the footer region for maximum benefit. though the footer of a website contains a whole lot of useful information about the site, visitors tend to ignore it. usually a footer holds contact details, maps that help with direction or links to important information. you’ll also find a lot of boring legal stuff that no one really wants to read – website policies, disclaimers, copyright information. some website owners also look to monetize this space by placing ad banners. one reason that the footer does not receive as much attention as the rest of the website from web designers is that the conversion rate is generally low in the footer area. but there’s a whole lot of stuff that you can include in the footer to make it more interesting and useful to visitors. you can place links to your best content or a sample of your portfolio. or add logos of clients or writers’ bio to increase credibility. this can also be the place where visitors have one last chance to click to share on social media. from the footer, you can allow visitors to receive newsletters by presenting a signup form or to search your website. using shortcodes you can create attractive buttons to present information in the footer. make it easier for visitors to navigate by adding a scroll to the top option. of course, too much content in the footer will make it appear overcrowded. it’s up to us to decide what’s important to our website and make use of space in the footer to include this information. it would be best if you could devote some attention to the footer right at the start when you’re building your website, so everything falls into place neatly. let’s start on our list of plugins, free wordpress footer plugins there are a number of free plugins that help specifically to enhance utilization of the footer. many of the plugins in this list have one main function – they help to insert code snippets that carry out different functions. insert headers and footers almost inevitably, somewhere down the line, we’ll desire to add code relating to google analytics, facebook pixel, custom css or other code to the header or footer region of our website. to do so without having to modify the theme files, use the insert headers and footers plugin. this plugin offers a simple interface where you can input the code. it’s a straightforward, no fuss plugin that’s easy to set up and to use. more info / download genesis custom footer users of the genesis framework can rely on the genesis custom footer to insert code into the footer region. the default genesis footer credits can be modified by visiting the section that’s added to the genesis theme settings page. you also need to have an active genesis child theme to use this plugin. you can add shortcodes from within the genesis framework or use your own html or plain text. more info / download header and footer header and footer plugin offers a centralized location to add verification codes for many services like google analytics, alexa and bing. simply copy the codes generated by these services in one place, without modifying your theme. this means that you can change themes at a later date without losing these codes. not merely on the header or footer, you can inject these codes anywhere in a post or page – top, bottom or in the middle of content. you can also place these codes anywhere on a template using placeholders. moreover, you can inject code in amp pages. however, this plugin cannot change the menu or footer layout. you’ll need to fall back on your theme for those functions. more info / download ad inserter ad inserter supports many different advertisement services, including google adsense, rotating banners and contextual amazon native shopping ads. this plugin is not merely an ad management plugin, it also provides options to insert any javascript, css, html, php or any ad code anywhere on the page including footer. more info / download header and footer scripts the header and footer scripts plugin enables you to inject html tags, javascript and css codes into the header and footer directly. in practical terms, this means that you can add codes relating to web analytics and social media links into the footer area. there are not too many options or settings with this plugin as the author’s intent is to keep it simple to serve a single purpose. more info / download footer putter when you put the legal information related to your website for all to see, it imparts a credibility to your site. the footer putter plugin creates two widgets relating to copyright and trademarks. the copyright statement updates automatically every new year to avoid negative signals to google. details of accreditions, privacy statement, terms and conditions, nap (name, address, phone number) can be included to establish credibility. you can choose a single line centered footer or a multi line aligned footer. a hook allows you to fit in a footer in non-widget areas of your theme. you can choose to hide the widget on landing pages and hide the “powered by wordpress” line as well. more info / download addfunc head and footer code addfunc head and footer code is a lightweight plugin that helps to add code to the header and footer site wide or on individual pages and posts. this is particularly helpful when using any general or page specific javascript such as google analytics conversion tracking code or any other tracking snippet. more info / download sogo header footer sogo header footer is yet another plugin that does much the same job as the previous one, adding javascript code to the header and footer of individual pages and posts. after activation, open the page or post and simply paste the code to the header or footer, and save. you can add conversion code to thank you pages or even google re-marketing codes using this plugin. there’s also an option to include the code on all the pages or posts at a time. more info / download footer mega grid columns when you pick up a wordpress theme, chances are, there is only a single or, in other cases, two columns in the footer section. for some, this might be more than enough while for all the others, well, we need more columns! if that is the case for you, footer mega grid columns is the wordpress footer plugin that will do the trick. instead of running the default settings, you can now step things up with multiple columns/grids in the footer area of your theme. with footer mega grid columns, you can now add multiple columns, two, three, fours, you name it. also, the plugin works flawlessly with all the modern wordpress themes and even supports other widgets and plugins. there are many out there who do not really care about their footer, well, do not be one of those and pick footer mega grid columns. more info / download remove footer credit if you are looking to remove the footer section where it says, “powered by wordpress,” you came to the right place. while the plugin above adds new stuff to the footer, remove footer credit – hence the name – removes it. sure, if you are tech-savvy and know how to code, you can do it manually by changing the source code of your theme. however, to keep things as simple as possible, just install and activate remove footer credit and you are ready to roll. what’s cool about remove footer credit is not just the feature that allows you to remove footer credit. sure, you can keep it blank, but you can also add your custom text to it if necessary. and the setting and options it offers you are barely any, making sure that you cannot mess things up. more info / download header, footer & blocks for elementor this next wordpress plugin gives you loads of different options on how to improve your website further. however, all can happen under one condition: you must be using elementor drag and drop page builder. with the website builder and the plugin, you can now hammer out nifty headers and footers like a pro without the need to know how to code. thanks to the powerful elementor, you do not really need to do any programming to be able to perform customization tweaks. you can create the entire design of your spectacular footer by using elementor. from then on, the new layout you create, the plugin will automatically add to your website. and if you need additional information on how to set it up, make sure you first go through the step-by-step guide. however, you will soon realize how simple and quick it is. more info / download header footer code manager header footer code manager is a wordpress plugin that helps you add custom snippets to both header and footer. from now on, you will never again need to worry about adding different codes to your wordpress theme, worrying whether or not you will break something. header footer code manager is very user- and beginner-friendly, making sure the process of adding scripts and styles is always successful. on top of that, even if you are switching between different themes, the snippets will stay there intact. some of the goodies of header footer code manager are the ability to manage on which page or post the snippet loads, as well as full support for custom post types. also, the limit to how many snippets you would like to add is none. moreover, with header footer code manager, you also eliminate the number of plugins you run on your wordpress install. you do not need to install a new plugin just to add some code, with header footer code manager, you can do it all. more info / download scripts to footer some javascript based plugins like sliders require the loading of jquery even prior to html. this scripts to footer plugin was created to fix this issue by moving the scripts to the footer. using a filter, you can disable the plugin on specific posts and pages, and on specific archive pages. at the same time, you can keep specific scripts in the header. for this plugin to work, the theme you’re using should enqueue scripts as per wordpress standards. same is the case for the plugins on your site. more info / download storefront footer bar the storefront footer bar is a plugin intended for use along with the storefront theme, a wordpress shop theme based on woocommerce. it’s handy if you need a full width widget region above the default footer widget area in the storefront theme. you can customize this bar by changing the background or altering colors via the wordpress customizer. important to note, this plugin works only with the storefront theme. more info / download simple header footer html it often happens in wordpress networks that individual site admins need to modify their site using html / javascript or css. simple header footer html allows them to do so. at the same time it blocks any modifications using php code. this way site admins can add custom headers without modifying the theme file. more info / download personal admin footer if you’re not particularly fond of the generic “thank you for creating with wordpress” tag at the bottom of your website, use the personal admin footer to change it to anything you want on all your pages, except the network admin page. there’s no settings involved, simply install and activate. the plugin will automatically pull your site name and home url address from the general options page of your wordpress dashboard. more info / download compact wp audio player compact wp audio player allows you to embed an mp3 audio file anywhere on your website. the player is compact and takes up little space, so you can easily place it in the footer. it works with all major browsers and is html5 compatible. the player is responsive and can be added anywhere using shortcode. it’s a useful plugin for any website that’s into podcasting, selling audio files or the like. more info / download premium wordpress footer plugins while a free footer plugin should suffice in most cases, if you’re looking for feature rich plugins or plugins that come with a greater level of support, take time to go through these premium plugins. jetblocks to take the functions of elementor to a whole new degree, you need to get your hands on jetblocks. it is a powerful and practical plugin that adds new header and footer widgets for enhanced web space. speaking of widgets, in the jetblocks package, you will find logo, login form, registration form, hamburger panel, search and shopping cart to name a few. you can also make a section sticky so it follows your visitors while he or she scrolls down your page. to keep things as comfortable as possible, every jetblocks user also gets access to professional 24/7 support and in-depth documentation. however, if you are already using elementor, you know how simple the process of crafting new layouts is. well, with jetblocks, you just add another convenient feature to the experience. get your footer section sorted out in full and shine online. more info / purchase hayyabuild hayyabuild lets you create footers and headers for every page of your website individually. this intuitive drag and drop wordpress builder plugin lets you build unlimited headers and footers without using any code. or you can use one of several readymade modules that come with unlimited effects. you can add video backgrounds for header and footer, and export and import headers and footers from one site to another. it works with any wordpress theme and no other plugin is required. more info / purchase wp lefooter to get your footer to slide up smoothly, try lefooter. using this plugin you can have not one, but multiple slide in animation effects using jquery. the plugin is highly customizable offering five predefined themes and textures, and multiple color options. it integrates with all standard wordpress themes easily. the plugin allows up to four columns that can all hold widgetized content. if you wish, you can hide widgets on specific devices such as desktop, ipad or mobiles. more info / purchase footr you may have come across many websites which appear to have no footer at all, but the footer is revealed as you scroll down the page. with footr, you can have a similar footer on your website as well. the footer is both sticky and responsive, and you can simply drag and drop content into it. the color picker will help to customize, and the plugin includes a custom filter that will allow you to show or hide the footer on specific pages and posts. you can add any content using widgets, right from plain text to custom menus. using custom widgets, you can also build horizontal menus and adjust spaces, alignments and columns. it’s possible to set up to four columns and set the column size on the widget content, so that it aligns automatically when added in the footer. though it’s unlikely that you’ll need customization, you can use css to override any style. more info / purchase royal footer bar royal footer bar adds clean, responsive and professional looking bars to your footer. it’s designed to increase conversions by adding ad footer bar, opt-in footer bar and social footer bar. moreover, it supports ab split testing and generates daily reports about clicks and views. what’s more, you can add bars in only the pages you need and exclude others. this helps you to undertake targeted marketing. while being easy to configure, the bar allows a great deal of customization. you can make the bar transparent, choose buttons for display, disable the bar for a specified number of days, fix the time lag for appearance of the bar and also close the bar after a specified time. more info / purchase sticky footer nav sticky footer nav offers a mega footer that stays fixed at the bottom of the browser. it’s based on a flexible grid system that can be adjusted to hold your content. you can configure the plugin to set triggers and enable or disable the responsive feature. a scroll bar appears automatically when there’s a good amount of content in the panel. the plugin includes three types of drop down and can fit into any kind of layout. the columns of the grid are flexible and the menu items can be aligned to the left or right. it’s compatible on several devices and browsers. more info / purchase in conclusion the plugins in this list should inspire you to get innovative and create stunning footers that not only contain relevant information but also help improve conversion. however, take care that you do not go overboard and clutter the footer. visitors have come to expect certain content in the footer and it’s best to keep them there. but that should not prevent you from making use of the available space to highlight what’s important or to persuade your visitors before they leave your website to subscribe or like or purchase. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. wordpress footer pluginswordpress plugins share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts 17 best custom login page generator plugins for wordpress 2020 why do we buy a wordpress theme? because we don't want our site to look… top 7 responsive wordpress electronic signature plugins the great thing about technology today is that it improved a lot, making our lives… 30+ best free woocommerce plugins for wordpress 2020 woocommerce is a free plugin that teams up nicely with wordpress to help you sell… top 26 jquery form plugins and effects 2019 where would the web be today without forms? we might as well ask where the… 22 fantastic wordpress booking plugins 2020 you might be owning a chain of hotels, or you are a coach, with any… top 15 free customer service & support & chat plugins for wordpress 2020 it's no secret that customer service is a big part of a successful business. treating… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: toolset review: a suite of tools to extend the possibilities of wordpress next post: the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2019 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×