skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » website design » 20 best real estate website design inspiration to generate more leads 2020 20 best real estate website design inspiration to generate more leads 2020 march 27, 2020 colorlib website design 0 comments get more listings and more buyers when you build a strong web presence for your real estate business. having such a wonderful goal, you will definitely find this inspiration useful. so, discover the most ideal real estate website design to explore for your business. accordingly, 93% of people visit websites when searching for homes or property. so, you see how important it is to build your real estate website for career development or business growth? well, building a strong web presence isn’t a waste of time and resources at all. with a modern, high-quality website, you can provide more exposure to your properties, get recognition and stand out from the highly competitive market. additionally, crafting a good real estate website design will obviously build a reputable brand that will help you connect with prospective clients. fortunately, building a website in this modern era isn’t as hard as before. you can find various, aesthetically built premium themes to use for your business. or, you can let experienced and expert designers build it for you. nevertheless, these real estate websites will indeed serve as a great motivation. in this list, you’ll find different creative ways to build an online presence effectively. hence, the time you spare into this inspiration will never be a waste. get ready to jot down the best features you’ll find for your upcoming project. so, spend time browsing these websites and get inspired! the coloradan one of the effective ways to persuade a client is to impress them with a wonderfully-built website. in like manner, the real estate industry has embraced this scheme for more apparent exposure and wider reach. here’s the coloradan a practical real estate website design that will serve as a guide. the homepage has a simple design but contains the essential elements including clear ctas, logo, social icons, and more. specifically, it uses huge square photos with short details on its side. hence, the building, residences and the neighborhood menu are easily accessible on the homepage. preview city sales typically, most people use the internet to find brands to rely upon. hence, every brand must build a website to develop an online reputation. consequently, almost all industries have embraced this digital marketing scheme. if you’re planning to adopt it for your brand, you might want to check this inspiration. city sales has a stunning real estate website design that you should look into. it’s a leading apartment specialist in auckland. aiming to leverage its marketing scheme, the homepage is crafted with perfection in mind. from the advanced search, good and clear typography to ctas, these web components are well designed. in order to provide easy navigation, this website implements the sticky menu with a dropdown feature to display submenus. preview tbilisi gardens find the best and most inspiring real estate website design on this collection. then, learn what these websites can do to your upcoming projects. tbilisi gardens is the first new york skyscraper in tbilisi. its website aesthetically and creatively showcases the detailed description of the entire project. with the remarkable goal this project has – to create a convenient, relaxed place in the heart of the crowded city – its website is truly impressive. apparently, it allows the user to examine the technical details, safety, energy efficiency and build quality. it also comes with user-friendly navigation as it integrates the off-canvas menu as well as the sidebar menu. moreover, aside from the homepage, other pages also look creative with the clean and minimal layout. preview property club indeed, a good website can leverage the brand’s credibility and obviously unlock more opportunities. hence, this marketing strategy is a demand. property club has an awe-inspiring real estate website design that promises to provide a better home search. specifically, this firm offers total transparency and direct access to landlords, listing brokers and property managers. with this website, finding the best apartment, house for rent or for sale is perfectly quick and easy. the hero header bears the advanced search with bright and vivid colors as the background image. typically, magazines and brands that feature your product or services will help escalate your business. hence, this website ensures that such a feature will look aesthetically pleasing. so, don’t miss checking the features on this website. preview level barvikha property websites are a cost-effective way to get your property details online. moreover, it also drives traffic while generating quality leads. if you’re working with similar projects, skipping this real estate website design collection might be unlucky for you. so, better not miss them. here’s level barvikha, a modern residential estate that offers the comfort of luxury city apartment and countryside ambiance in the areas of the moscow region. specifically, the hero scene introduces the business via a resourceful video background. it also utilizes a nice and smooth transition effect as user scrolls the page. apparently, this site displays a split-screen layout with left and right portion of the screen shows up from opposite directions. preview rj investments when you build your own website for your real estate business, you can easily reveal your personality and your creativity. so, get a glimpse of these stunning websites and expand your business soon. rj investments is a cool real estate website design to explore. apparently, it brings luxury living to the rental market through bespoke renovations, at affordable prices with quality property management. it has a professional and modern design that accents the site with an asymmetrical layout. particularly, the homepage design shines with overlapping of web elements. furthermore, the black tone background enhances the elegance of the site. preview s&p streamline your real estate business as you adapt to the latest and powerful marketing schemes. it’s no doubt that the internet has influenced people a lot in terms of picking brands. in the same way, most people look for websites in finding real estate. no wonder why the real estate industry adopt this scheme. here’s s&p an international real estate boutique specializing in the design, marketing and sale of super-prime real estate and properties of distinction. in order to represent the firm at its finest, a well-built website is crafted. particularly, it uses black and white color scheme with uncluttered web components. the header bears the logo on the center and the menu spreading evenly on both sides. preview rich land dubai make this real estate website design a good inspiration to delve into. rich land dubai is one of the creative and modern real estate website that’s impressive. the homepage design utilizes the full screen layout with the necessary web elements on it as well as the integration of gsap animation. apparently, it presents the real estates aesthetically through a smooth slider along with ctas and background image. additionally, the user can easily filter the properties via type, neighbourhood, and developer. on each property page, the sophistication is apparent too. it implements clean and minimalist design with great emphasis to white space, cool animation upon hover, and another awesome slider. moreover, the user can also check the brochure, map and the floor plans. preview icon villas easily connect with your prospective clients as you build a reputable brand using a website. this way, your real estate business awaits more awesome opportunities. icon villas has a grandeur real estate website design. it’s a luxury private rental in cape town, south africa and further into africa. the best part of having a real estate website is you can add as many quality contents as you wish including photos and videos. with this website, the hero scene highlights fullwidth images that are captivating via a nice slider. it then provides a clean and simple advanced search so clients can easily access rental properties. furthermore, the content even looks warm with the grid layout it uses, awesome blog section and newsletter. preview newenham at the start of your web design process, you can take advantage of the practical inspiration to plan your website design ahead. newenham is a real estate agency in mount barker, australia. it has a welcoming homepage with a fullwidth image on the hero scene with a descriptive call-to-action button on the bottom image. particularly, the header bears a clear distinction of the subscribe button, register and book a tour, the logo and the off-canvas menu. obviously, the content is separated from images and brief descriptions of the properties. furthermore, the key dates and events, as well as the blog section, use the slider to highlight some of the featured content. in the same way, a slider is also used in the presentation of the instagram feed. preview mirabilis beautiful and quality properties need a good website to showcase them in a pleasing manner. so, make sure the real estate website design will be of value to your clients. whether you’re hiring a designer for your website or opt for a premium one, you surely have to see this awesome list. mirabilis is a property management company that strives to be remarkable in everything. they mean to pick incredible local properties, spacious serviced apartments, and dedicated people in the business. specifically, it embraces a video background with a useful menu and calendar for booking an apartment. for the property page, apartments are displayed using grid layout so they all look clean and modest. other necessary details are also visible on the page such as bakery, flower shop, and other establishments in the area. preview di jones a real estate website is never wasteful advertising. with excellent design coupled with good functionality, you will not just build a good reputation but will have more opportunities to taste. di jones has an experienced and trusted team of real estate agents and property managers offer sellers and investors outstanding results and service. it has the potential to grow its business on top of other brands. it welcomes the users to discover the best properties via the search function on the hero scene. while the layout is pretty clean and minimalist, the animation upon scrolling also enhances the look and feel of the site. furthermore, the success indicators empower the brand too. it also comes with a nice and sleek contact form with google map integration. preview jsk real estate real estate is truly a highly competitive business. so, always keep in mind that your website will represent your business excellently. in order to achieve your goal, you can check out these websites for inspiration. jsk real estate has a great website design that allows you to buy, rent or sell properties efficiently online. it has a remarkable design on the homepage with an advanced search on the hero header. particularly, this website displays the recommended properties using a card design layout. one of the best ways to improve credibility is to embed the testimonials. this way, people will have a good impression of your brand and will consider trusting it in their next transaction. additionally, the footer bears the find the property and lost your property buttons. preview ripco real estate set your brand apart from the highly competitive market. as real estate is a lucrative industry, many real estate agencies are trying to build a great website to represent their brands across the web. here’s ripco, a commercial real estate brokerage firm in nyc, ny, nj and ct that provides retailers and developers with world-class service and consultation. its website is tailored with respect to creativity, elegance and advancement. it welcomes the user with an advanced search on the hero scene and a little introduction of the brand next to that section. meanwhile, the featured listing is totally enticing with the slider that highlights them one by one. this website also provides quick searches so users can easily access the different listings filtered by places. preview akershus eiendom extend your local reach as you opt for a good website. to develop a strong online identity, make sure you have the finest tools and inspiration to examine before you finalize your design. well, why don’t you check akershus eiendom for outstanding real estate website design? it’s norway’s leading commercial real estate broker that assisted clients with advice and assist in analysis, valuation, transaction, tenant consulting and rental. the website ensures that the content will be compelling with the fullwidth layout, clear and captivating typography. in addition, the presentation of vacant premises is totally remarkable with the charming and smooth slider. check out other amazing features you can apply to your project. preview sanderson weatherall sanderson weatherall is the uk’s largest independent commercial property surveyors. it is owned and run by a group of commercial property experts. basically, it provides property consultancy services for owners, occupiers, investors, developers and financial advisors. knitted to its awesome goals, it has crafted a professional website with profitable features. the smooth and subtle motions of the web elements definitely enhance its look and feel. in the hero header, the video is integrated to introduce the firm distinctly. it also uses the asymmetrical layout to make the content more interesting and lively. furthermore, this website understands the importance of success indicators to empower the brand across the web. preview gizmo since most people are using smartphones these days, brands that embrace the online presence will surely reap awesome benefits. gizmo provides new solutions for real estate professionals and end-users. it offers 3d vr experiences, interactive maps and other practical features. the website is indeed magnificent, modern and professional. from the hero scene, different sections on the homepage to the footer, they are all exceptional as it integrates the gsap animation. as the site embeds entertaining videos coupled with subtle animations, the homepage is indeed visually appealing. moreover, it also comes with a nice and elegant contact form with bright and vivid call-to-action buttons all over the page. preview akoya boca west real estate websites have transformed into a modern, unique and innovative marketing. if you’re looking for effective and creative inspiration, you must not miss this collection. akoya is a luxury condominium located on the ground of the #1 private residential country club in the nation, boca west country club. like most of the modern websites, it uses a fullwidth layout all over the page. specifically, it utilizes a quality and clear images, big and bold headlines, hd videos, and smooth animation with gsap. hence, the overall look and feel are pretty impressive. in addition, the header and footer bear the necessary elements and at the same time look superb as it uses the sticky header for quick navigation. preview jonathan radford boost your real estate business as you craft a professional website. so, never miss exploring these real estate websites we’ve gathered on this post. jonathan radford is the #1 sales associate kit of more 4000 sales professionals at coldwell banker residential brokerage in new england. understanding the power of web presence, jonathan radford ensures that his website will represent well his personality as a real estate agent with vast expertise and experience in the field. the website has much to say about its credibility. in the hero header, the random display of videos welcomes every visitor with excitement. it also offers an option to watch the full movie resume, search for all properties or connect with him via contact number. other features are all charming and harmonious one to another. preview vasilkov realty whether you want to build a website for your real estate business or want to redesign it soon, these amazing collection is valuable. here’s vasilkov realty a real estate website that features 3 brand new houses. it has a simple but comprehensive homepage design. a full-screen layout that showcases the properties in an engaging manner. to highlight those houses individually, this website uses a slider that smoothly reveals each property. for each property page, the specific details are arrayed in a clutter-free manner. it’s a great combination of quality images, good typography, white space, and slider. aside from that, this site also integrates a super clean and neat contact form. preview thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. investmentpropertyreal estaterealtorswebsite design share this share tweet pin it share related posts 19 excellent wedding photography websites to look into for killer portfolio 2020 get a load of inspiration with this handpicked collection of wedding photography websites. whether you’re… 20 best school websites designs for extremely useful inspiration 2020 effectively increase admissions with a school website that can promote the institution’s best services and… 19 best dentist websites design inspiration to explore 2020 are you looking for the finest and perfect website inspiration for your dentistry profession? if… 18 best comedy websites for standup comedians, comedy clubs inspiration 2020 whether you’re a standup comedian or a web designer working with comedy websites, this set… 19 excellent art gallery websites to explore 2020 are you an established or emerging artist who wants to boost and market your creativity?… 19 best electrician website designs inspiration 2019 professional individuals need the power of digital marketing to stand out in their respective industries.… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (122) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 17 stunning dog grooming websites to stimulate brands 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×