barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up life 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest rachel crocetti writer shares share tweet pin the end of a year means it’s the beginning of various roundups. roundups of the best videos of 2015, the funniest tweets of 2015, the most awesome humans of 2015… etc. it also means you’re going to be getting tons of articles on predictions for 2016. as dog parents, if there’s one thing we care about more than anything it’s dog name trends. while some canine names still hold the reigning title as most-popular – we’re looking at you buddy and bella – others are brought about by cultural references. here are some fun predictions for popular dog names for the new year, based upon hot 2015 trends. **disclaimer: these are just some fun, silly predictions for doges and in no way relate to actual statistical numbers. 1.saint this year kim kardashian broke the internet, and then she had another baby. to no one’s surprise, the famous offspring of yeezus was named saint, and we’re sure that pup owners who believe that their dog is the chosen one will follow suite. 2. pinot “pinot noir” was a hilarious song in the new netflix show, unbreakable kimmy schmidt. it’s also a great name for a wine lover’s dog. 3. charlotte the second royal baby of prince william and kate middleton is sure to set off a whole new wave of four-legged charlottes (or charlies)! 4. matcha this green tea took over starbucks in 2015, when people realized it was a healthier way to consume a lot of caffeine. it was one of the biggest “food” trends of the year, and also makes the perfect name for a super energized, zany pup. 5. boo boo is the name of the instagram-famous pomeranian but it’s also the name of a character in the hit show, orange is the new black. not only is big boo an awesome character, but she’s also a dog-lover, so double-win there. 6. annalise another name from a hit show! annalise is the professor and main character in how to get away with murder, which absolutely blew up this year. while the name is adorable for a baby girl, we have to say that a cute little female pup would also wear that name well. 7. marnie another famous dog from social media, marnie stole the hearts of crowds everywhere with her hilarious photos, commentary, and little tongue sticking out of the side of her mouth. she’s a senior pup who’s just trying to have fun, and we can only hope that there are more marnies in store for us! 8. toast okay, so there were a lot of instagram dogs this year. toast is an nyc pup who’s getting married next year (yes, you read that right) and in celebrating the canine nuptials, we hope that others are named in her honor. 9. burrito when you think of food chains that were in the media this year, one chain should automatically come to mind. chipotle! we think burrito would be the most adorable name for a little pug or french bulldog. 10. shonda shonda rhimes has completely monopolized thursday night television with her three hit shows – grey’s anatomy, how to get away with murder, and scandal. shonda-fans, consider naming your pup after the great queen of primetime television herself. 11. katniss, peeta, prim, or gale the final hunger games movie came out this year, and while we were super sad, we know that this isn’t the last we’ll see of a katniss or a prim. fans of the trilogy are sure to name their brave, adventurous dogs after the strong characters in the films. 12. chewie furry dogs everywhere will continue to carry on the name of the legendary wookie in the star wars franchise. with the new movie having just come out, we’re assuming the name will be popular once again! the force is strong with these ones. 13. khaleesi the name of the beautiful and influential wife of the khal in the game of thrones series is still going strong as a popular name in the dog world. we think it’s unique and pretty! 14. drake (or bling, because come on) a perfect name for the dog who used to call you on your cell phone. just kidding, dogs can’t use cell phones, but they can be named after the influential rapper who came up with the viral hit, “hotline bling” this year. 15. jeter professional baseball player derek jeter retired in 2014, and fans of the athlete will probably be missing him so much in 2016, that they might just have to name their four-legged family member after him. 16. brady another major athlete, tom brady is always in the news for something (whether it be deflated balls or his model wife, gisele). patriots fans, claim that name for your next pup right now before one of your friends does! 17. brooklyn the new york city borough that’s officially the place to be has also been turned into a sure-to-be-nominated film. be the first in your crowd to name your dog this, and put brooklyn on the map. 18. comet one of tv’s most-famous dogs is back! with full house returning to the small screen, the family’s golden retriever is also making a comeback – as well as his name (we predict). 19. hazel grace the main character in john green’s hit book and film, the fault in our stars tugged at our heartstrings, and also made us think about how cute of a dog name it would be. 20. and a few names still going strong: elsa, thor, piper in 2015 you could have asked any little girl (or boy!) what they wanted to name their new dog, and they would probably have said “elsa” after the extremely popular disney film, frozen. other character names still going strong in the dog world – thor (after the movie) and piper (another character from oitnb). what do you think 2016 will bring in terms of pupular dog names? comment below! featured image via newsmag comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up rachel crocetti writer how do you prepare to bring a new dog home? "a grumble of pugs" - 18 perfect names to describe groups of dog breeds 15 things you should do with your dog before summer really ends 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go