about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ 20 diy pantry recipes (make your own marinara sauce & more) 29 comments earlier this week, i shared 50 pantry-friendly savory recipes and a printable pantry ingredient checklist. i hope you’re finding them helpful. today, i thought i’d share recipes that are simple diy versions of building blocks we often grab at the store. you’ll find salsa, salad dressing, pancake mix and more—even homemade cold brew coffee. you may be accustomed to making these recipes already, but if not, i think you’ll become a convert. since these homemade options are freshly made from scratch, they taste much better than store-bought options! you’ll be surprised by how easy they are to make. i hope this post saves you a trip to the store. let me know what’s missing in the comments, and i’ll get to work on a recipe solution. savory essentials breakfasts & sweet treats a couple of snacks to get you through how to stretch your pantry (easy baking substitutions) savory essentials creamy homemade hummus if you haven’t made this hummus recipe yet, you have really been missing out. it’s creamy, dreamy, as good as your very favorite mediterranean restaurant’s. enchilada sauce this enchilada sauce is easy to make with basic spices, tomato paste and vegetable broth. most store-bought sauces contain suspect preservatives and additives—you won’t find any funny business here. uses for enchilada sauce: make my veggie black bean enchiladas, spinach artichoke enchiladas, or red chilaquiles. red salsa i bet you have what you’ll need to make this restaurant-style salsa already. it’s made with canned tomatoes, yet tastes wonderfully fresh. easy refried beans got canned pinto beans (or black beans)? you can turn them into fantastic refried beans. serve them with (or on) quesadillas, nachos and so much more. marinara sauce this marinara sauce is beyond easy to make. you’ll need canned tomatoes, an onion, garlic, and about 45 minutes’ worth of patience (it makes your house smell amazing in the meantime). you can use it as pizza sauce, too. whole wheat pizza dough you can throw together this pizza dough in your food processor in no time. the best part? you don’t have to wait for the dough to rise. it’s ready to go, right away. how to make vinaigrette (plus 3 essential variations) homemade vinaigrette tastes so much better than store-bought, you’ll never go back. plus, you can make it with real olive oil (no processed ingredients here). it will keep in the refrigerator for 7 to 10 days. more easy salad dressings: try creamy tahini dressing, green goddess dressing (the perfect use for any leftover leafy herbs), and honey-mustard dressing. peanut dipping sauce this peanut sauce makes a stellar dip for spring rolls or plain veggies. if you don’t have fresh ginger on hand, you’ll find an option for powdered ginger within the recipe. easy romesco sauce this simplified romesco sauce is made with roasted red peppers, almonds, and a few more basic ingredients. it’s bold and tangy, and would make a great sandwich spread. spicy black bean soup this black bean soup recipe is designed for canned beans, so it’s ready in under an hour. you’ll also need carrot, celery and garlic. creamy tomato soup (lightened up) this ultra creamy tomato soup recipe is made with the simplest of pantry ingredients. you won’t believe how creamy it gets (no cream required). breakfasts & sweet treats cold brew coffee missing your favorite coffee shop’s cold brew in the morning? make your own! you’ll only need coffee, water, and some basic equipment. the very best granola homemade granola tastes so much better. make your own with oats, coconut oil or olive oil, maple syrup or honey, and any mix-ins you have on hand. healthy blueberry muffins do you have frozen blueberries? make these fluffy, naturally sweetened muffins. warm, homemade blueberry muffins are so comforting and delicious. view more easy muffin recipes here. whole wheat pancake mix out of pancake mix? make your own! or make a single batch of whole wheat pancakes (here’s a vegan/dairy-free/egg-free alternative). view more pancakes and waffles (several are gluten free). cherry pecan muesli muesli is an oat-based alternative to processed cereals, and a low-sugar alternative to granola. i toast my muesli in the oven with the tiniest touch of maple syrup. it’s worth the effort. muesli variations: toasted muesli with almonds, coconut and dark chocolate and bircher muesli. cinnamon toast breakfast quinoa if you have extra quinoa, make this fun breakfast option. it tastes like cinnamon toast! how to make almond butter have a surplus of almonds or other nuts? make nut butter. you can use my almond butter recipe as guidance. feel free to add pecans, walnuts, cashews or pepitas. i also have a recipe for pecan butter, which might be my favorite of all nut butters. a couple of snacks to get you through perfect stovetop popcorn popcorn is the original pantry snack! all you need is popcorn kernels and oil (i like to use coconut oil or even extra-virgin olive oil). stovetop popcorn is 1,000 times tastier than microwaved bags. fun popcorn variations here. almond coconut granola bars if you have oats, nut butter and honey or maple syrup, you can easily make your own granola bars at home. i’ve played around with several flavor combinations, and couldn’t possibly pick a favorite. more granola bar recipes: almond chocolate chip granola bars, pecan granola bars and cranberry orange granola bars. how to stretch your pantry how to make buttermilk 1 tablespoon vinegar + 1 scant cup milk of choice = 1 cup buttermilk (let rest for 5 minutes before using) how to make light coconut milk 1 can (14 ounces) regular coconut milk + 2 cups water = about 4 cups light coconut milk (extra milk can be frozen and thawed later) how to make flax “eggs” 1 tablespoon flaxseed meal or freshly ground flaxseeds + 3 tablespoons water = 1 flax “egg” (let rest for 5 minutes before using) how to make brown sugar 1 cup granulated sugar + 1 tablespoon molasses = 1 cup brown sugar (whisk together in a bowl, then use your fingers to squish out any lumps) how to make powdered sugar blend granulated sugar in a blender or food processor until it’s fine and fluffy. best used promptly, as it hardens over time. see a tutorial here. how to make oat flour blend old-fashioned or quick-cooking oats (certified gluten-free if necessary) in your blender or food processor until they turn into a fine, even flour. leftover flour stores well for later. how to turn old fashioned oats into quick-cooking oats throw some old-fashioned oats into a food processor or blender and blitz them a few times, until they’ve broken into thirds or quarters. how to make almond meal (warning, this is loud.) blend whole almonds in your food processor or blender until they are broken into a very fine flour, but stop before they turn into almond butter. 1 cup whole almonds = 1 cup packed almond meal. more resources you might appreciate: 23 healthy make-ahead breakfast recipes, 29 healthy comfort food recipes and 20 simple weeknight dinners. you might also like my monthly seasonal produce guides and essential kitchen tools. view all roundups and resource posts here. similar recipes food storage tips (make your food last longer) 50 pantry-friendly recipes & substitutions that work super simple marinara sauce share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories pantry friendly, tips and resources ↢ newer honey butter cornbread older ↣ quick chana masala by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) rebecca b. march 19, 2020 this is awesome – thank you! you and several other food bloggers i follow have done such an amazing job posting things like this. i know you all usually plan your posts out ahead of time, so i’m sure the interruption to your schedules isn’t easy. but getting emails of your new posts have been bright spots on these dreary days. thank you! reply kate march 20, 2020 you’re welcome, rebecca! i’m happy to do what i can to help at a time like this. reply hs march 19, 2020 you’re at it again, kate! these easy ways to make something usually store-bought are going to be fun to try while we all “shelter in place”. better than watching tv all day, even with cable/netflix/hulu/you name it! with your usual attention to detail and drive for perfection, you’ve given us some great recipes to work with and lots of inspiration to cook. thanks! reply kate march 20, 2020 thank you! i want to be able to provide something light during a time like this. i appreciate your support. reply gauri hurria march 19, 2020 wow this is so practical and useful!! thank you for sharing these tips. i have bookmarked this page and will try one of these for sure . my family is already a fan of your shakshuka reciepe :) reply kate march 24, 2020 you’re welcome! great to hear shakshuka is a family favorite. reply tisa march 19, 2020 hi kate! thank you so much for posting these delicious homemade pantry staples! i so look forward to your emails. they really do brighten my day and encourage me to go get busy in the kitchen. every recipe i have tried on your site has always been well balanced and delicious and i thank you so much for that. i was wondering if you have any experience with tvp? i stocked up on this product prior to the warning to shelter in place and i’m looking for tasty ways to use it. thanks so much! reply kate march 20, 2020 hi tisa, i don’t have much experience- sorry! i’m happy you are loving the blog and it’s providing you with such joy. reply amira march 21, 2020 i’ve used it in chili in place of ground beef. reply gina march 20, 2020 thank you so much for the time and effort you put into your posts. stay safe and have a blessed weekend. reply kate march 20, 2020 you’re welcome, gina! to you as well. reply suzy march 20, 2020 we can’t get eggs right now. is the flax “egg” actually a substitute for eggs in baked goods, waffles, meatloaf, etc? reply kate march 20, 2020 hi suzy! yes, flax egg is typically a good substitute in baked goods. reply greg march 20, 2020 many thanks for this, kate. invaluable over the coming weeks, or months. my best wishes to you and your loved ones. reply kate march 20, 2020 to you as well, greg! reply kristyn march 20, 2020 i love this. such a useful post and welcome change from the news! reply debs march 20, 2020 hey kate, just wanted to point out a typo in your post. “i hope this post *shares* you a trip to the store. ” other than that, thanks for all your awesome work!! -debs reply kate march 24, 2020 ah, thank you! i fixed it :) reply naomi godfrey march 20, 2020 how wonderful to see these posts! i was actually trying to figure out what to do with a lot of pepitas i have, that i put in your kale salad recipes. i don’t have any kale in the house and i am wary about going to the store. anyway i have enough food in the pantry and freezer to last a long time. but what to do with the pepitas? you can only nibble on so many of them as snacks, whatever spices you put on them. thanks and looking forward to your or anyone’s ideas. reply kate march 23, 2020 hi! you could use them in granola :) reply hannah march 21, 2020 i’ve already made your hummus! trying to keep healthy wfh snacks around for my fiancé. appreciate all you do – thanks for all of your hard work, nourishing our bellies & souls through all of this! reply kate march 24, 2020 you’re welcome! thanks for letting me know what you are loving. i still can’t get enough hummus. it’s so good! reply hayley march 21, 2020 my sister is a novice cook and she made your tomato soup last night. she loved it. i made it as well, and we facetimed on our laptops over dinner while we ate. it was great to do to keep in touch since it’s hard to get together with everything going on… your recipes and tips are a great help and comfort at this time. thanks, kate! reply kate march 24, 2020 what a fun idea! i’m glad you both loved it. thank you for sharing, hayley. reply curt march 23, 2020 thank you for your empathy and for doing what you can to help others right now. i know that roasting garlic reduces its antimicrobial properties, but we’ve been eating your garlic bread every night, anyway. :-) please take care. reply kate march 24, 2020 thank you, curt! i’m happy to do what i can during a time like this. reply jennifer march 23, 2020 thanks for putting together this great resource. several of these are already favourites in our house but i see a few more to try. much appreciated! reply kate march 24, 2020 you’re welcome, jennifer! reply shanice buckley march 26, 2020 list cookieandkate.com with a cbd shop directory to increase your online exposure and sales. simply google “cbd shop directory”. reply hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}