start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising health food and drink advertising published on march 27, 2020 20 easy smoothie recipes for weight loss katelyn delaney owner of revifi -- fitness training & life coaching read full profile share pin it tweet share email i’m sure you’ve heard of a million different smoothie recipes for weight loss, right? let’s be honest…they are quick, easy, flavorful, filling, and so delicious! on top of that, you can easily adjust smoothies to meet your macros. plus, they can make incredible low-calorie subs for some of those sweets you might be craving. maybe you’re wondering, are smoothies good for weight loss? yes and no. smoothies can be great meal replacements and a way to sneak in extra protein! however, they also can lead to lots of unwanted calories if used incorrectly. you’ve probably heard it said before: don’t drink your calories. in a lot of cases, that can be true. it’s not necessarily that smoothies or liquid calories are bad, but it can be hard to justify a smoothie as being a meal, even if it has the calories of one. for that simple reason, some people trying to lose weight might use smoothies more as a snack than a meal, and with that could come unwanted weight gain. that being said, smoothies are generally healthy and can be amazing at curbing cravings! on top of that, the macro profile (portion of carbs, fats, and proteins) can be spot on as well. sometimes it actually makes more sense to reach for a copy-cat smoothie version of your favorite dessert (made out of whole ingredients that will keep you satisfied) instead of reaching for a dessert that will spike your blood sugar. because of these differences, we need to make a distinction between smoothies that are used as a meal vs ones that can be snuck in as a snack: meal smoothies these should have a mix of fiber, protein, carbs, and fat. these types of smoothies should generally be used as a meal substitute. an 8 ounce smoothie of just fruit isn’t enough to satisfy most people for long. however, this blend of macro-nutrients will ensure your body feels satiated until your next meal. why is that? fiber, protein, and fat tend to be slower to digest, so your body gets a steady trickle of nutrients that will last a longer time. in contrast, pure fruit is easily digested and will quickly boost your blood sugar only to drop it soon after. snack smoothies these are lower calorie and nutrient dense. in contrast to meal smoothies, these light and fresh smoothies can give you a quick boost of energy. these smoothies are an amazing way to sneak in extra greens and super-foods. however, they aren’t likely to keep you feeling full for long. use snack smoothies between meals or when you need a pick-me-up. but be mindful! too much snacking of any kind throughout the day could still lead to too many calories. now that you know the difference between snack and meal smoothies, dig in to my top 20 smoothie recipes! with options ranging from decadent desserts to light and fresh pick me ups, you’ll find everything you need below! it’s time to satisfy your cravings the healthy way! 1. snickerdoodle smoothie is there anything better than that sweet and unique tang of a snickerdoodle cookie? i grew up with this cookie as an infamous family dessert (we even named our rabbits after this favorite treat). however, if you’re looking to bring back that taste without the calories, all hope is not lost! this snickerdoodle smoothie registers at under 400 calories and rings in 14 grams of protein. if your looking to lower calories and sugar, there are also modifications to use stevia or monk fruit as a sweetener instead! check out the recipe here! advertising 2. the best green smoothie okay, let’s be real. we all want to add a little more green into our lives. however, sometimes it can be hard to gag down. change all of that with this 5-star smoothie recipe. not only is this smoothie incredibly delicious, but it’s also packed with nutrients. chug those greens the easy way! check out the recipe here! 3. detox smoothie this smoothie is fresh, light, and green, giving your body the nutrient boost it needs. in addition to that, it packs a bonus boost of cilantro, which is said to aid in reducing heavy metal toxicity. check out the recipe here! 4. detox smoothie #2 this incredible smoothie recipe not only gives you the ingredients, but also a step-by-step guide to designing your own fantastic smoothie recipes! once you get a taste of this, you will never want to go back! check out the recipe here! 5. easy weight loss smoothie if you aren’t a fan of bananas, then this one is for you! instead, this smoothie uses zucchini as a thickening agent and buckwheat to keep you full and satisfied all day long! and for you celiacs out there…yes, buckwheat is gluten free! check out the recipe here! 6. creamy mint chocolate chip smoothie part of the struggle with trying to lose weight and create healthier habits is the struggle of having to give up some of your favorite foods, like chocolate. say no more. this chocolate mint smoothie is the perfect blend of protein and chocolate to satisfy your cravings for good! why avoid what you love when you can indulge the healthy way? check out the recipe here! 7. creamy cacao avocado smoothie advertising speaking of chocolate, give this smoothie a go! the blend of avocado and chocolate will keep you feeling satisfied and healthy all day long. not to mention, the creaminess of this one will blow your mind. check out the recipe here! 8. copy-cat starbucks mocha frappuccino have you ever gone to a coffee shop and felt the agonizing sting of realizing you can’t order anything but a black coffee? i feel your pain. personally, i am a huge frappuccino girl, and life without my blends sounds agonizing. is it a smoothie? technically no. but this recipe could easily double as one! it’s lower in calories, healthier, and still delicious. feel free to add some collagen for an added protein boost! check out the recipe here! 9. frozen fruit smoothie sometimes, you don’t need to venture far past the basics to find your ideal smoothie. with a base of apple juice and yogurt, this smoothie provides the best blend of sweetness and creaminess! check out the recipe here! 10. strawberry keto smoothie yes! you can still have smoothies while on a keto diet. as it just so happens, berries are very low-carb! in addition to that, this smoothie uses avocado to add an extra boost of creaminess and healthy fats. this one is sure to keep you burning fat all day long! check out the recipe here! 11. real fruit smoothie stick to the basics to get a maximum boost of nutrients! this smoothie gets straight to the point by using the best fruit medleys to blend you the ultimate weight loss drink. check out the recipe here! 12. citrus energy-boosting smoothie feeling tired and run down? instead of running to the coffee pot when you first wake up, try running to the blender instead! this amazing smoothie mix is an incredible way to give your body a nutrient boost while giving you the energy you need to get through the day. advertising check out the recipe here! 13. skinny strawberry shortcake smoothie this vegan recipe will have you drooling for more! it’s vegan, low calorie, and delicious! what makes it different than any regular strawberry smoothie? the secret is in a butter extract that gives it a rich pastry flavor while keeping it low in calories. if you feel like leaving your chair to blend this one up right away, you are in good company. check out the recipe here! 14. banana split smoothie this rich and decadent smoothie will have you feeling like you’re indulging at an old fashioned ice cream parlor. this recipe is absolutely delicious and will have our cravings flying out the window. it stays deliciously smooth and creamy with the banana base and dates for an extra touch of creaminess. fair warning: this smoothie does have a slightly higher natural sugar content. however, it is much lower than going crazy and diving into a tub of ben and jerry’s. of course, if you feel like having a lighter version of this same drink, you can always sub a little banana and dates for zucchini and stevia. check out the recipe here! 15. skinny oatmeal cookie smoothie and here we have it! yet another healthy smoothie version of your favorite dessert! if you’re getting sick of eating oatmeal in the mornings, try using it in a shake instead! because of the high fiber in oatmeal, it helps keep you feeling full and satiated longer while giving the smoothie a fun new texture. check out the recipe here! 16. pineapple kale smoothie if you’re looking to sneak some extra greens into your day (and let’s be honest, aren’t we all!) this pineapple kale smoothie is for you! not only are the ingredients incredibly nutrient dense, but they’re also light and fresh. pineapple is known for helping digestion because of an enzyme it contains called bromelain. just for that reason, this smoothie can keep you feeling light and energized after you sip! check out the recipe here! 17. healthy shamrock shake you don’t have to be irish to enjoy a good shamrock shake! also, it turns out you don’t have to be unhealthy for it either! this shamrock shake is made of entirely healthy ingredients and even sports greek yogurt for an extra protein boost. have a bowl of yogurt or a shamrock shake? it’s your choice, but i know which one i would go for! and the ingredients turn out to be almost exactly identical at the end of the day. advertising check out the recipe here! 18. cinnamon roll smoothie once again sporting greek yogurt for a good protein boost, this smoothie could make an amazing low-calorie meal replacement. it contains yogurt, oats, chia seeds, and fruit, offering a great blend of fiber, protein, carbs, and healthy fats. not only does it taste fantastic, but it could very well curb cravings while remaining relatively low-calorie and satiating. check out the recipe here! 19. golden glow turmeric smoothie the sound of having turmeric in your smoothie might make some of you cringe, but it is definitely worth trying. for one, pineapple has such a strong flavor in and of itself that the turmeric’s taste is almost completely masked. secondly, turmeric is a strong anti-inflammatory that everyone should try adding it to their diet. you might be surprised to find out that it is actually pretty tasty as well! check out the recipe here! 20. copy-cat disneyland dole whip smoothie if you really want to take a taste of magic home, try out this fantastic recipe! made with only two ingredients, you will get that creamy indulgent taste you love without the sugar or extra calories. curb those cravings the right way! check out the recipe here! bonus smoothie additions for an extra weight loss boost, try these fun additions! greens sneak in greens wherever you can! smoothies tend to be very flavorful, so you usually won’t even notice a few added greens in there. however, the nutrients will keep you feeling extra energetic throughout the day! protein add in a small scoop of protein powder to almost any smoothie. especially if you are looking for a meal replacement, the simple addition of protein powder will ensure you’re staying full throughout the day! frozen zucchini did you hear me right? yes you did! zucchini is actually a great thickening agent in smoothies. translation: less sugar and more fiber! since zucchini is so low in calories and almost flavorless, you can use it in smoothies for a rich and creamy texture while keeping things low-calorie. plus, the extra fiber will have you feeling like you had a full meal for way less calories. sweetener subs most smoothies use extra honey, syrups, or fruit for their sweeteners. however, that can add up very quickly to unwanted calories. instead, try subbing low calorie sweeteners like monk fruit or stevia once in a while to cut down on the high sugar count. that being said, avoid artificial sweeteners like splenda. they won’t do you any good. sub desserts try making healthy smoothie renditions of your favorite desserts. we’re only human, and it can be hard to stick to a healthy diet sometimes. instead of giving something up, find a sub for your favorite meals! in this case, getting that amazing flavor you are craving in the form of a low-calorie smoothie could be just the thing for you! more healthy recipes these 30 vegetarian recipes are so good, you might rethink meat 31 healthy breakfast recipes that will super boost your energy 25 easy fast healthy dinner recipes to try (and go paleo) this week featured photo credit: chelsea shapouri via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 25 easy fast healthy dinner recipes to try (and go paleo) this week 15 easy-to-make crockpot freezer meals for busy nights 5 savory ice-cream sandwiches every dessert lover can’t miss advertising advertising more by this author katelyn delaney owner of revifi -- fitness training & life coaching 20 easy smoothie recipes for weight loss does weight loss cleanse diet work at all? how to eat healthy on a budget (the definitive guide) 25 quick and healthy lunch ideas for work 17 healthy late night snacks for when midnight cravings hit advertising trending in food and drink 1 20 easy smoothie recipes for weight loss 2 the best refreshing morning routine: have a vegan breakfast 3 25 best weight loss breakfast ideas for busy people 4 8 best teas for weight loss and fat burning 5 27 healthy pressure cooker meals (with easy recipes) more by this author katelyn delaney owner of revifi -- fitness training & life coaching 20 easy smoothie recipes for weight loss does weight loss cleanse diet work at all? how to eat healthy on a budget (the definitive guide) 25 quick and healthy lunch ideas for work 17 healthy late night snacks for when midnight cravings hit trending in food and drink 1 20 easy smoothie recipes for weight loss 2 the best refreshing morning routine: have a vegan breakfast 3 25 best weight loss breakfast ideas for busy people 4 8 best teas for weight loss and fat burning 5 27 healthy pressure cooker meals (with easy recipes) read next 8 hearty soups that will surely keep you warm this fall 8 mouth-watering turkey stuffing recipes for thanksgiving 22 healthy breakfast recipes that fill you up without gaining weight 20 delicious and healthy breakfast for weight loss advertising advertising lifestyle health advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life leanne louie leanne is a passionate writer who shares lifestyle tips on lifehack. read full profile share pin it tweet share email when it comes to living long, genes aren’t everything. research has revealed a number of simple lifestyle changes you can make that could help to extend your life, and some of them may surprise you. so, how to live longer? here are 21 ways to help you live a long life 1. exercise it’s no secret that physical activity is good for you. exercise helps you maintain a healthy body weight and lowers your blood pressure, both of which contribute to heart health and a reduced risk of heart disease–the top worldwide cause of death. 2. drink in moderation i know you’re probably picturing a glass of red wine right now, but recent research suggests that indulging in one to three glasses of any type of alcohol every day may help to increase longevity.[1] studies have found that heavy drinkers as well as abstainers seem to have a higher risk of early mortality than moderate drinkers. 3. reduce stress in your life stress causes your body to release a hormone called cortisol. at high levels, this hormone can increase blood pressure and cause storage of abdominal fat, both of which can lead to an increased risk of heart disease. 4. watch less television a 2008 study found that people who watch six hours of television per day will likely die an average of 4.8 years earlier than those who don’t.[2] it also found that, after the age of 25, every hour of television watched decreases life expectancy by 22 minutes. advertising television promotes inactivity and disengagement from the world, both of which can shorten your lifespan. 5. eat less red meat red meat consumption is linked to an increased risk of heart disease and cancer.[3] swapping out your steaks for healthy proteins, like fish, may help to increase longevity. if you can’t stand the idea of a steak-free life, reducing your consumption to less than two to three servings a week can still incur health benefits. 6. don’t smoke this isn’t exactly a revelation. as you probably well know, smoking significantly increases your risk of cancer. 7. socialize studies suggest that having social relationships promotes longevity.[4] although scientists are unsure of the reasons behind this, they speculate that socializing leads to increased self esteem as well as peer pressure to maintain health. 8. eat foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids omega-3 fatty acids decrease the risk of heart disease[5] and perhaps even alzheimer’s disease.[6] salmon and walnuts are two of the best sources of omega-3s. advertising 9. be optimistic studies suggest that optimists are at a lower risk for heart disease and, generally, live longer than pessimists.[7] researchers speculate that optimists have a healthier approach to life in general–exercising more, socializing, and actively seeking out medical advice. thus, their risk of early mortality is lower. 10. own a pet having a furry-friend leads to decreased stress, increased immunity, and a lessened risk of heart disease.[8] depending on the type of pet, they can also motivate you to be more active. 11. drink coffee studies have found a link between coffee consumption and longer life.[9] although the reasons for this aren’t entirely clear, coffee’s high levels of antioxidants may play a role. remember, though, drowning your cup of joe in sugar and whipped cream could counter whatever health benefits it may hold. 12. eat less japan has the longest average lifespan in the world, and the longest lived of the japanese–the natives of the ryukyu islands–stop eating when they’re 80% full. limiting your calorie intake means lower overall stress on the body. 13. meditate meditation leads to stress reduction and lowered blood pressure.[10] research suggests that it could also increase the activity of an enzyme associated with longevity.[11] taking as little as 15 minutes a day to find your zen can have significant health benefits, and may even extend your life. advertising how to meditate? here’re 8 meditation techniques for complete beginners 14. maintain a healthy weight being overweight puts stress on your cardiovascular system, increasing your risk of heart disease.[12] it may also increase the risk of cancer.[13] maintaining a healthy weight is important for heart health and living a long and healthy life. 15. laugh often laughter reduces the levels of stress hormones, like cortisol, in your body. high levels of these hormones can weaken your immune system. 16. don’t spend too much time in the sun too much time in the sun can lead to an increased risk of skin cancer. however, sun exposure is an excellent way to increase levels of vitamin d, so soaking up a few rays–perhaps for around 15 minutes a day–can be healthy. the key is moderation. 17. cook your own food when you eat at restaurants, you surrender control over your diet. even salads tend to have a large number of additives, from sugar to saturated fats. eating at home will enable you to monitor your food intake and ensure a healthy diet. take a look at these 14 healthy easy recipes for people on the go and start to cook your own food. advertising 18. eat mushrooms mushrooms are a central ingredient in dr. joel fuhrman’s gombs disease fighting diet. they boost the immune system and may even reduce the risk of cancer.[14] 19. floss flossing helps to stave off gum disease, which is linked to an increased risk of cancer.[15] 20. eat foods rich in antioxidants antioxidants fight against the harmful effects of free-radicals, toxins which can cause cell damage and an increased risk of disease when they accumulate in the body. berries, green tea and broccoli are three excellent sources of antioxidants. find out more antiosidants-rich foods here: 13 delicious antioxidant foods that are great for your health 21. have sex getting down and dirty two to three times a week can have significant health benefits. sex burns calories, decreases stress, improves sleep, and may even protect against heart disease.[16] it’s an easy and effective way to get exercise–so love long and prosper! more health tips powerful daily routine examples for a healthy and high-achieving you make these 17 health goals into daily habits for better overall wellness how to work towards a healthy life balance featured photo credit: sweethearts/patrick via flickr.com reference [1] ^ wiley online library: late‐life alcohol consumption and 20‐year mortality [2] ^ bmj journals: television viewing time and reduced life expectancy: a life table analysis [3] ^ arch intern med.: red meat consumption and mortality [4] ^ plos medicine: social relationships and mortality risk: a meta-analytic review [5] ^ jama: fish and omega-3 fatty acid intake and risk of coronary heart disease in women [6] ^ ncbi: effects of omega‐3 fatty acids on cognitive function with aging, dementia, and neurological diseases: summary [7] ^ mayo clinic proc: prediction of all-cause mortality by the minnesota multiphasic personality inventory optimism-pessimism scale scores: study of a college sample during a 40-year follow-up period. [8] ^ med hypotheses.: pet ownership protects against the risks and consequences of coronary heart disease. [9] ^ the new england journal of medicine: association of coffee drinking with total and cause-specific mortality [10] ^ american journal of hypertension: blood pressure response to transcendental meditation: a meta-analysis [11] ^ science direct: intensive meditation training, immune cell telomerase activity, and psychological mediators [12] ^ jama: the disease burden associated with overweight and obesity [13] ^ jama: the disease burden associated with overweight and obesity [14] ^ african journal of biotechnology: anti-cancer effect of polysaccharides isolated from higher basidiomycetes mushrooms [15] ^ science direct: periodontal disease, tooth loss, and cancer risk in male health professionals: a prospective cohort study [16] ^ aha journals: sexual activity and cardiovascular disease share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to work towards a healthy life balance powerful daily routine examples for a healthy and high-achieving you 14 healthy easy recipes for people on the go advertising advertising more by this author leanne louie leanne is a passionate writer who shares lifestyle tips on lifehack. how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life 5 life lessons from game of thrones 12 ways to live more in the moment 10 brain boosting foods you should be eating 7 habits of highly effective hobbits advertising trending in food and drink 1 20 easy smoothie recipes for weight loss 2 the best refreshing morning routine: have a vegan breakfast 3 25 best weight loss breakfast ideas for busy people 4 8 best teas for weight loss and fat burning 5 27 healthy pressure cooker meals (with easy recipes) read next how do you meditate? 8 meditation techniques for complete beginners make these 17 health goals into daily habits for better overall wellness 8 surprising benefits of salmon (with recipe) 7 comics about periods that only women would understand about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.