skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 march 27, 2020 rokr plugins 7 comments looking for a gallery plugin for your wordpress website? we have showcased the best gallery plugins that you can download for free. depending on the content your website is all about, installing a tool from our best free wordpress gallery plugins collection is a wise decision to make. wordpress’ default installation comes with a gallery, however, it lacks features and functions. you cannot do any of the fancy stuff rather keep it as basic as it can get. if you truly want to impress your users with your wonderful media, this article is the right one for you. even if they are free, the plugins you will find below treat you with plenty of goodies. still, some are more on the minimal side while the other gets pretty complex. with this in mind, setting up most of the tools will take you little to no time. meanwhile, you might read the documentation to get the gist of it first with some. but this does not mean that all of you without the technical knowledge will struggle. far from it! everyone will have a blast creating outstanding galleries and portfolios for their wordpress websites. whether you have a photography website, a portfolio site or maybe you are a travel blogger, creating stunning galleries is inevitable. for the best user experience, before crafting a gallery, you should first optimize your images so the final piece of mastery will load extremely fast. no one is interested in flipping through a gallery if pictures take ages to load. without wasting too much of your time with the intro, let’s move on and check some of the best free wordpress gallery plugins. modula (trending) modula hands down our favorite gallery wordpress plugin. if you are looking for something a touch more creative and contemporary, then you should go with modula. the moment the dashboard opens, you will notice that modula is quite different compared to the majority of free wordpress gallery plugins. when creating a new gallery, you set the name, add a description, specify gallery width in percents and gallery height in pixels. you can even set the hover effect and pick images from the wordpress media library. each image can have a title and a subtitle, to give the viewer a better understanding of what the photo is all about. after that, modula creates a random grid inside the specified measurements. what’s refreshing about the plugin is that you can control the randomness. by switching it off, you will create a classic, everyday gallery. meanwhile, by keeping the “random factor” on, you can add a distinct look to the gallery. after pressing the save button, it generates a unique shortcode which you can then use in posts and pages. but you do not have to copy and paste it. you can simply choose the desired gallery you created in the editor. for a modernistic image gallery, modula is a terrific plugin to pick. why we love modula? it is the most customizable free wordpress gallery plugin out there. it comes with a image lighbox as standart, has many layout options and is completely mobile friendly. more info / download gallery photoblocks if you would like to spice things up on your wordpress website or blog with a stunning gallery, gallery photoblocks is the free wordpress plugin for you. instead of relying on the default feature, you can always level things up and make it stand out from the masses. and you can literally do magic with the powerful gallery photoblocks. it creates a stunning grid with justified edges that will definitely make your imagery pop. keep in mind, you can even zoom images, thanks to the lightbox. with the convenient drag and drop page builder, you can quickly set up the gallery of choice even as a newbie. other specialties include social sharing, hover effects, custom caption positioning and shuffle images. download, activate and enjoy all the amazing perks that gallery photoblocks brings to the table. more info / download final tiles grid gallery if you do not want your photo gallery or portfolio gallery to look like any other, you better consider final tiles grid gallery. it is a free wordpress gallery plugin that helps you out with crafting a nifty gallery to add to your website. what’s more, final tiles grid gallery is also entirely responsive and compatible with modern web browsers for flawless operation. you can use the plugin for all sorts of different intentions, both professional and amateur. with final tiles grid gallery, you get two styles, masonry (aka pinterest look) and tiles. along with photographies, final tiles grid gallery also supports video content for you to set yourself apart from the competition immediately. little work necessary on your end for speedy and spectacular results. on top of that, final tiles grid gallery costs you nothing! more info / download everlightbox gallery everlightbox is a stunning addition that you can add to wordpress’ default galleries, as well as final tiles and photoblocks gallery plugins. however, by activating custom css selectors, you can integrate everlightbox with pretty much any gallery plugin out there. the option is right at your fingertips, all set and ready for you to take it to your total advantage. what’s unique about everlightbox is the fantastic experience it creates for the end user, whether browsing from a desktop or a mobile device. of course, everlightbox is entirely compatible with swiping and even offers the user to comment on the particular image he or she is viewing. if you would like to see the plugin in effect, watch the short video presentation first and be amazed by its awesomeness. more info / download envira gallery a plugin that has a whopping number of downloads and plenty 5-star ratings must be absolutely fantastic, don’t you think? if you do not know where to start and how to pick the ideal plugin, you can easily go with the one which is the most popular. read the reviews and if people dig it, there is no reason why you would not like it, too. when it comes to free wordpress gallery plugins, envira gallery is a highly popular one. still, we have even more popular plugins (with over one million installs) ready for you. however, since this is no competition of sort, we listed all tools in no particular order. at the end of the day, this is a collection of the best plugins after all. envira gallery is a drag and drop gallery builder which requires zero coding and design knowledge. it is easy to use, yet your final product will look like an experienced professional built it. moreover, your galleries will load super fast what adds up to your site’s overall user experience. and keep your website’s search engine optimization intact. the simplicity of envira gallery will definitely hook you immediately when you start putting it to use. use it to its full potential and create the much-needed photo and video galleries your users will enjoy. more info / download nextgen gallery you are looking at the one million downloads big plugin for wordpress galleries i mentioned earlier, called nextgen gallery. it has been around since 2007 and keeps on growing and growing. while it looks very basic, nextgen gallery does not lack fantastic features even for the pickiest photographers and creative individuals. you will all be treated with a great solution for crafting stunning galleries full of your magnificent creations. nextgen gallery offers two options how to display your content; either as a slideshow or a thumbnail gallery. in addition, there are two albums available for you to go with; compact or extended. pick whatever suits your needs best and benefit from all the tweaks you can perform. you are able to have full control over size, lightbox effects, transitions and a whole lot more. you can also edit thumbnails, group galleries into albums, upload photos and rearrange pictures however you fancy. building, managing and maintaining unlimited galleries on your website will be hassle-free with nextgen gallery. that is a guarantee. if the free version is not enough for you, at any given time, feel free to upgrade to the pro version. but you do not have to if free’s features are more than enough for your needs. more info / download photo gallery by wd adding a responsive and mobile-friendly photo or video gallery to your wordpress page with photo gallery by wd plugin will take you only a few minutes. with hundreds of thousands of active users, the plugin is one of the most popular ones out there. there are many advanced features that photo gallery by wd supports. this makes it very flexible in regards to covering as many different webmasters’ needs and requirements as possible. photo gallery by web-dorado gives you the opportunity to add photo galleries and albums to posts and pages smoothly. it also supports multiple widgets which help you bring your delightful galleries to even more locations on your website. you can display content in a range of different views, like thumbnails, mosaic, masonry, blog-style and slideshow. there are no limits on how many images you can upload, not even how many albums you can create. there is nothing photo gallery by wd would shy away from. it can face even the toughest challenges. some of the coolest add-ons of photo gallery by wd is the ecommerce integration. photographers and other creatives can now sell visuals using their freshly designed gallery. but that, my friends, you can unlock only by paying a fee. more info / download foogallery straightforward and efficient wordpress plugin for creating eye-catching galleries. it is responsive, retina ready and does not slow down your page loading speed. while foogallery plugin is ideal for all levels of users, from newbies to advanced, it is also developer-friendly. use it out of the box and customize it to follow your requirements to a t. with the available features, plenty is possible with this free gallery building tool. it fully supports video galleries and the creation of albums. the latter comes as an extension that you can enable on the extensions page. when enabled, a new menu item will appear where you can add albums in a similar fashion compared to adding galleries. foogallery supports lazy loading, custom css for galleries and albums and visual shortcodes in the text editor. rearranging images and galleries is done with the simple drag and drop organization. with the built-in media library, you can access and manage all your content and create galleries using beautiful templates. foogallery is an extensible free wordpress gallery plugin that will help you integrate attention-grabbing galleries to your websites. more info / download photo gallery by supsystic photo gallery by supsystic is a free product with which you will not have a single issue designing grid photo galleries. with various layouts and features, you can easily create the precise look of the gallery you want to rock on your page. users will enjoy clicking and checking out the photographies which will keep them on the page for longer. and you just scored yourself a few extra points by google. the longer the visitors stay on your site, the more likely your website’s seo will improve. the layouts you can choose are fixed, horizontal, vertical and mobile. speaking of mobile, photo gallery by supsystic is optimized for all mobile devices to appear beautifully and readjust to the screen size in an instant. you can benefit from the polaroid, full-width and mosaic gallery along with watermark function and additional caption builder. although there are limitations with the free version, you are still able to create impressive galleries. your blogs and business websites will look even more professional than they did so far. with easy integration of a top-notch gallery, you can have a great impact on your visitors. get them intrigued and turn them into returning visitors and even loyal clients. more info / download video gallery some plugins are just for images, some for videos and there are the third ones that support both. video gallery is the middle one. it is a free wordpress gallery plugin that supports videos from youtube, vimeo, wistia and mp4 formats. the setup process of the plugin is quick and simple, making sure you create stunning video galleries without hassle. in other words, even if you are a beginner, you will still succeed at it. video gallery supports all modern wordpress themes and does not have a problem acclimatizing to different types of websites. whether you run a blog, a business page or an entertainment website, video gallery works with all of them flawlessly. it rocks sixteen templates, nine gallery layouts, hove effects, lightbox effect and catchy animations to name a few. you can customize the look, and fine-tune the features so it blends perfectly with your theme. more info / download image gallery by ape image gallery by ape is another cracking free wordpress gallery plugin that will beautifully decorate your websites and blogs. and it is one of those plugins that supports both image and video content. you can now craft intriguing galleries that will keep your visitors around for longer. deliver a spectacular experience for both desktop and mobile users and make a difference. indeed, it takes little time to install, activate, configure and bring your fresh gallery to your page. also, image gallery by ape makes sure that newbies and pros get the most out of it with ease. while the plugin might be free, it comes with countless valuable features. it supports multiple categories, has a gutenberg block, load more function, hover effect and shortcode. there are also social media buttons for sharing, but you can enable or disable them if necessary. create a gallery that will knock everyone’s socks off with image gallery by ape today. more info / download photonic photonic is a highly versatile free wordpress gallery plugin that will help you realize outstanding galleries. if you always wanted to have more features in the wordpress default gallery function, make it happen with photonic. along with adding your custom content, photonic also supports 3rd-party image platforms, like instagram, flickr, google photos and smugmug. on top of that, you can also use photonic for building video galleries. what’s more, photonic indeed works smoothly with the new gutenberg block builder. in fact, even if you have some content created with gutenberg and some without, photonic still works like a dream. there are also multiple different layouts to choose from for displaying your content exactly how you want it. editing and adjusting the photonic gallery is also a piece of cake, for everyone to use it without a hitch. more info / download robo gallery to skip using the default wordpress gallery and move to something way more proper, use robo gallery. if you are looking for a quick and efficient solution, again, use robo gallery. with our free wordpress gallery plugins, you can effortlessly boost your website’s appearance, making it look first-class. plus, for the most part, every tool is uncomplicated, what makes its use a child’s play and newbie-ready. from the installation of robo gallery plugin to having your first gallery live on your website will pass just a few minutes. to reach the same results even quicker, watch the installation and setup guide video and get the gist of it in advance. robo gallery has nice hover animations (fifteen in total), flexible thumbnails layout and adapts to any screen size promptly. its media manager has an option to upload images in bulk with just one click. advanced cache options, manual resizing tool, lazy loading and customizing text style are some of the key features of robo gallery. the plugin also supports swipe effect, videos and social sharing. you will undoubtedly be amazed by the number of features robo gallery comes with. and all the mentioned above come with the free version of the plugin. more info / download vimeo and youtube gallery hence the name, if you are looking to add a video gallery to your website, vimeo and youtube gallery is the free plugin to go with. you can always spice things up on your page or blog with different plugins and extensions. and to add even more visual content to it in a beautiful and attention-grabbing way, create a gallery. this plugin brings about a 100% responsive gallery that works flawlessly on smartphones, tablets and desktops. there are also several designs available for you to find the one that resonates with you right from the get-go. no need to do any complicated work, vimeo and youtube gallery has done all that for you anyway. some more features of the plugin include content slider, blog-style view, justified design, pop-up, view counter, titles and descriptions. also, you can use vimeo and youtube gallery to add as many videos as you want, as there is no limitation to that. more info / download portfolio gallery for a quick gallery or portfolio fix, all you need is a free wordpress gallery plugin, portfolio gallery. first and foremost, there is no need for you to be tech-savvy to be able to use all the amazing perks of this great tool. with portfolio gallery, anyone can create a stunning addition for their website or blog in the form of an enticing content presentation through a gallery. beginners and pros, you are welcome. as for the free features that portfolio gallery comes with, there are quite a few that will get you going strong. from filters and bootstrap lightbox to titles, spacing, grayscale effect, masonry style and a multiple-column layout, it is all at your fingertips. for more, you can upgrade to the premium plan at any time you want and experience the features all of a sudden become never-ending. more info / download wordpress portfolio builder wordpress portfolio builder is a powerful and multi-purpose free wordpress plugin for creating a striking gallery. the plugin fully supports both image and video content, and you can add as many as you want! the layout of the design is also entirely mobile-ready, making sure that the performance is of the highest degree across all devices and platforms. wordpress portfolio builder is no joke, that is for sure. you can add and create as many portfolio galleries to your website as you want. moreover, you can use your own content or go with youtube or vimeo videos. with the automatic shortcode generator and widget, you can then quickly add the freshly crafted gallery anywhere on your site you want. as easy as that! before you go live, perform any last customization and styling tweaks and tailor the look, so it fits your theme ideally. more info / download grand flagallery grand flagallery is a versatile free wordpress gallery plugin which can do a whole bunch of things for you. it is not only for building image galleries. you can also use grand flagallery for audio and video galleries. use it to showcase your latest photo shoot or take your users on a journey through your recent trip to berlin, germany. each gallery, photo, audio or video, you publish is search engine optimized and ready to accept mobile and tablet users. for mobile users, grand flagallery supports touch controls for flawless browsing. there is a full how to guide available which you can go through to check how grand flagallery works. there are also different skins available for you to use upon install. no need to come up with your own styles if you dig the ones already available. one day, you feel like creating an image gallery while the other day, you finally have all the video material ready to put it in a slideshow. with grand flagallery plugin, you can realize it all in next to no time. more info / download gmedia photo gallery an all-in-one media gallery for your gorgeous photos and fascinating videos, gmedia photo gallery plugin covers it all. indeed, if you are putting together audios of all sorts, the plugin will be happy to help you out with inserting a music player into your website. almost all media files can be managed with gmedia photo gallery. it is a very powerful tool which, at the same time, is fairly basic and simple regarding setting things up and making it work for you. adding and managing content with gmedia photo gallery does not require any skill. you can upload as many photos and audio files as you want. videos, too. creating as many galleries and playlists as you need will be a fun work to do. you can group items in albums and help save yourself a lot of time using tags. upon uploading the files, assign relevant tags to them and you can add pictures and audios to various groups in unison. gmedia photo gallery smoothly integrates with wordpress and looks like a regular post. moreover, you can use the search bar in the admin to find albums and galleries in a snap. create something fresh for your website and make users hungry for more. more info / download easy media gallery easy media gallery plugin’s name speaks for itself. it is a free wordpress gallery plugin which you will not need to take much time setting it up for you. on the other hand, it comes with many features for creating much needed galleries. with easy media gallery plugin, your site’s visitors will enjoy browsing and flipping htrough your content even more. no matter the device they are using, galleries and portfolios put together with easy media gallery will adapt to the screen like a dream. no need to worry about the user experience since it will be intact. as a matter of fact, it might even get improved after placing an eye-friendly gallery on your page. from photo and video to audio galleries, easy media gallery supports all formats. in the easy-to-use control panel, you can change colors, reposition media, adjust grid and size of the content and much more. if you already have images in your media library, you can use those. no need to upload content one more time. pick the media you would like to put into a gallery and with the easy media shortcode generator place it on the pager or in a post. for your information, with the free version, you can create up to three albums or galleries with no more than 15 photos per album. more info / download portfolio wp bringing into being a grid photo gallery with portfolio wp plugin will be a piece of cake. the key features of the free version are responsiveness, layout composer, shortcode, customer support and comes with one layout style. for a basics user, these might be more than enough to display their work in a way to magnetize even more visitors. you can use it for your photographies, your creative projects, youtube videos and even to introduce clients and team members. portfolio wp is an all-around plugin that you can use for a variety of intentions. whatever you believe will work best if displayed in a grid, portfolio wp plugin will make it happen for you. there you have it, another splendid wordpress product to use for building galleries and portfolios. to create a fully working portfolio website, the best portfolio wordpress themes are the ideal way to go. more info / download thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. free wordpress pluginswordpress gallery plugins share this share tweet pin it share rokr rok is a professional content creator and an enthusiastic marketer who spends most of his day behind the screen, drinking coffee and listening to black metal. but he never misses a daily workout to get the blood flow going. he goes by the quote, "only a fool worries over what he can't control." related posts 11 best anti-spam plugins for wordpress to keep your site clean as a website owner, isn’t it exhilarating to see a growth in incoming traffic? sure… top 14 image lossless compression plugins for speeding up wordpress lossless image compression is a big deal, more often than not it is the actual… 13 amazing paid wordpress advertising plugins 2020 your website is growing steadily, which means that the time has come to look into… 23 best free wordpress slider plugins for a better user experience wordpress slider plugins have to be one of the best types of wp plugins. in… top 7 responsive wordpress electronic signature plugins the great thing about technology today is that it improved a lot, making our lives… 21 best free wordpress quiz plugins for 2020 need to run a quiz or survey on your website? these wordpress quiz plugins are… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue 13 amazing paid wordpress advertising plugins 2020 the best free wordpress font plugins to change fonts with ease 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (122) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii next post: 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×