skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 20 most stunning full-screen wordpress themes 20 most stunning full-screen wordpress themes may 4, 2019 julia starlark theme collections 0 comments in this collection, we have gathered the most stunning full-screen wordpress themes that would help different niche representatives to improve the appearance and functional capacity of a website. among these themes, you will find examples that support parallax effect backgrounds, feature astonishing post animations, allow the use of a variety of post types, and show the fastest load speed. needless to say, all full-screen wordpress themes in this collection are designed by means of a drag and drop content composer. that way, you can avoid interaction with code. these full-screen wp themes are responsive. the highest quality of the code and absolute responsiveness ensure a conducive online performance for your project. we wish you success in your web activities and present for your pleasure the list of most stunning full-screen wordpress themes. aldo | gutenberg blog wordpress theme aldo is a fresh, contemporary, and functional full-screen wordpress theme that is built with one of the most powerful content composers: gutenberg. the theme supports all gutenberg blogs. thus, you can easily change the appearance of your website. as aldo is quite new, it is ready to work with the latest wordpress version. also, it meets the general data protection regulations, which is a huge plus for any website. it has several page layout variations and offers white or black skins to choose from. more info / download demo especio | gutenberg food blog wordpress theme especio is an incredibly beautiful theme and one of the most remarkable full-screen wordpress themes made with gutenberg. it is dedicated to food-related websites. this theme is a feature-rich solution for any website, as it is compatible with such plugins as slider revolution, essential grid, woocommerce, themerex addons, and much more. to boot, the theme features flexible color and typography options so you could make your website look unique and stylish. also, this theme is great for mobile performance as all layouts are responsive, retina-friendly, and support swiper and revolution sliders. more info / download demo gutentype | 100% gutenberg wordpress theme for modern blog gutentype is one of the most effective full-screen wordpress themes. it is dedicated to bloggers and offers advanced options for content representation. it offers to choose from the following layout options: classic, masonry, grid, minimalist, lifestyle, news, creative, store, agency, and more. the theme has a versatile design as it is made by means of gutenberg builder. a clean and valid code ensures a cutting edge mobile performance and perfect website seo. it allowed using different post types including links, audio, video, photo, gallery. no coding knowledge is required so you can create a professional design without difficulty. more info / download demo artrium | creative agency & web studio wordpress theme if you are an artistic person that likes extraordinary solutions, artium theme is just for you. it has lots of prebuilt pages with a responsive and retina-ready design. this is one of the most multi-purpose full-screen wordpress themes as its clean and clever design would improve any e-project. artrium theme features parallax effect backgrounds and beautiful blog post animations. this is the theme for those who need a tool that would help you to establish a top-notch online performance. it allowed using different post types including links, audio, video, photo, gallery. no coding knowledge is required so you can create a professional design without difficulty. more info / download demo yungen | modern digital agency business wordpress theme create a stunning website for your business with yungen theme. this is a perfect solution for an online portfolio as all images adapt to different screen sizes. it features diverse pages and demos that cover different topics. yungen theme is flexible in terms of color scheme so you can adjust the website look in compliance with color psychology recommendations. also, there are fontello, image icons, and google fonts available for use. this theme is made with elementor which supports tons of content modules. the greatest part is that you don’t need to be a professional developer to create a website by yourself as availability of a drag and drop composer excludes any interaction with the website code. yungen theme is optimized for seo. what is more, it features widgets for the most popular social media, such as twitter, instagram, flickr, soundcloud, and more. all these features allow dragging more traffic and boosting the efficiency of any e-project. it is one of the newest full-screen wordpress themes on the market so you should definitely check it out. it allowed using different post types including links, audio, video, photo, gallery. no coding knowledge is required so you can create a professional design without difficulty. more info / download demo rhodos – a colossal multipurpose wordpress theme for business & portfolio want to provide your clients with the most impressive full-screen experience? then you need rhodos theme. it features 10 niche demos that different niches representatives would find useful. this theme comes with a huge pack of shortcodes. what is more, rhodos theme is bundled with elementor page builder which is one of the most comprehensive customization tools on the market. apart from that, it features such plugins as woocommerce, slider revolution, essential grid, mailchimp for wp, contact form 7, themerex addons, events calendar, and much more. more info / download demo vixus | startup & mobile app wordpress landing page theme vixus theme is the best option for a mobile app. its design is not only stylish but also responsive, which is a must for a mobile app. actually, it adapts to different screen sizes and looks spotless in all popular browsers. its functional capabilities provided by the most powerful wordpress plugins you can find on the market. vixus theme allows you to play with color settings and typography options. among all full-screen wordpress themes, this is the best option for a mobile application. more info / download demo bonko | safari & zoo wordpress theme bonko is a bright and modish wordpress theme that includes all you need to launch a fully-fledged zoo website. fast and effortless content creation is provided by such plugins as slider revolution, essential grid, and wpbakery page builder. there are 2 ready-made homepage layouts available. this theme comes compatible with useful plugins that are great for business management. for example, there is the events calendar that helps to organize a schedule and keep the audience aware of future events. also, you can raise funds for animals using themerex donations plugin. more info / download demo meals & wheels | street food festival & fast food delivery wordpress theme meals & wheels theme offers 3 stunning homepages that won’t be a problem to set up and customize. it is built with elementor so you can change the website appearance playfully. header and footer are also configurable and supported by elementor page builder. you get advanced blog functionality and can your food delivery services using different blog styles and astonishing post animations. like other elements of the theme, blog feed is fully-customizable. meals & wheels provides you with an opportunity to use over 750 customizer options and build a website that demonstrates all good sides of your business to a client. more info / download demo katelyn | gutenberg blog wordpress theme this roundup of best full-screen wordpress themes is full of themes made with gutenberg. such themes have a professional design and meet the latest standards of website design. this theme can be used for a blog as well as for an e-commerce project. katelyn theme has a high loading speed which allows visitors to have the best online experience. this theme is a combination of a professional design and superb functionality. it is packed with countless customizer options and features the most forceful wordpress plugins. more info / download demo rumble | boxing & mixed martial arts wordpress theme rumble is a dynamic wordpress theme that is dedicated to sports websites. you can get is in no time using the one-click installation option. the customization process is as simple as its installation as rumble theme is bundled with elementor page builder and themerex add-ons plugin. you will be able to change any aspect of the theme on a drag and drop basis, including header and footer areas. this theme is made with clean, valid, and seo-friendly code. if you need a remarkable full-screen wordpress theme for a sports project this is a perfect option for you. more info / download demo partiso | political wordpress theme for party & candidate partiso will help you to establish a decent and reliable public image. when launching a political website partiso theme is the first investment to make. it covers all needs a political candidate might have. there are 3 homepage variations, 20 portfolio and blog layouts, and over 80 shortcodes and widgets. what is more, this theme is customizable by means of a drag and drop content composer. the theme is built with a powerful framework and has a 100% responsive design which guarantees a cutting-edge website look on all devices. partiso theme supports such plugins as essential grid, themerex addons, wpml, contact form 7, elementor, mailchimp, the events calendar, give – donation plugin, and much more. another point that worth mentioning is compliance with wordpress general data protection regulations. as political candidates need to make potential voters survey it is crucial to operate people personal data on a legal basis. this versatile wordpress theme suitable all non-profit organizations so we recommend keeping this option in mind. more info / download demo avventure | personal travel & lifestyle blog wordpress theme avventure is a fresh, vibrant, contemporary wordpress theme full of graceful designs for a blogger website. this theme is powered by such plugins as woocommerce, elementor, essential grid, give – donation, and the events calendar. this theme was carefully crafted by a team of professional developers and designers in order to narrow your path to the web. its extra fast load speed is the features that any blog needs. also, the fact it is retina-friendly and fully responsive you can be sure in the success of your online performance. there are some unique and highly-customizable inner website pages that are full of relevant content. as you can guess, this theme requires no front-end knowledge as elementor page builder consists of pre-made content blocks which you can play around with using drag and drop mechanism. there are lots of other advantageous features for a travel and lifestyle blog this theme comprises so you should check the demo version of this theme to explore it. more info / download demo fc united | football, soccer wordpress sports theme fc united is one of the best full-screen wordpress themes made for sports websites. its colorful layout won’t go unnoticed. there are unlimited color options and 2 ready-for-use skin options – black or white. fc united supports all popular wordpress plugins, including elementor drag and drop page builder. this theme offers the functionality of a unique sport, such as match report, league tables, team and player profiles. fc united can be used for a sports gear e-shop as it is compatible with a woocommerce plugin. with this theme, you get detailed theme documentation and professional assistance. more info / download demo nazareth | church & religion wordpress theme nazareth has a vibrant design that suits a religion website or any other non-profit organization. it comprises all option a non-profit organization might have: a plugin for donations, timetable, and events schedule tool, events calendar and management plugin. nazareth theme has lost of prebuilt pages that you can modify by means of the elementor page builder. all pages and different content bits are adaptive and look spotless on all devices. more info / download demo maxify | startup & business blog wordpress theme maxify is a trendy full-screen wordpress theme that will turn any startup into a successful business. it offers not one but 10 homepages. all skins are responsive and made by means of a handy content composer. maxify theme supports different post types, including links, gallery, audio, video, image, etc. you can display full-screen video in order to stun your visitors with a remarkable content representation. as other premium full-screen themes maxify is made with clean and valid html5 and css3 code. this theme will meet the best response in all search engines. if you feel maxify theme suits your project use one-click installation option to import the demo without difficulty. more info / download demo corredo | bike race & sports events wordpress theme corredo theme certainly one of the coolest full-screen wordpress themes one can use for a sports event promotion. it offers 4 creative demos and lots of inner website pages. you can showcase photos from events in stylish galleries made by means of the essential grid plugin. corredo theme comes with a huge collection of google fonts which you can use to make your website stand out other sports websites. the pack of the documentation contains more than 200 pages that will clarify all processes for you. more info / download demo lingvico | language center & training courses wordpress theme lingvico is a full-screen theme made for education purposes. it is bundled with the most powerful education plugin – learnpress. this plugin turns a regular website into a robust learning management system and allows the creation of online courses. this theme will help you to spread your authority worldwide as it is bundled with the wpml plugin, so you can translate the content to all supported languages. lingvico theme has outstanding navigation which ajax search and mega menu establish. more info / download demo justitia | multiskin lawyer & legal adviser wordpress theme looking for a functional full-screen wordpress that you could use right away? justitia is a stylish, responsive, retina-friendly wp theme that works great for business and blogger purposes. its elegant design is based on a powerful framework. what is more, this is the theme that has a high-quality seo-friendly code in its code, which means it is perfect solutions for those who want to drag more traffic. more info / download demo emojination | night club & concert wordpress theme emojination comes compatible with wpbakery page builder and features over 750 customizer options. it offers lots of pre-made pages and homepage variations which you can get in a single click. there is parallax support, full-screen menu, sticky menus, google map, google fonts, wpml support, and lots of other features that make this theme worthy of the title one of the most stunning full-screen wordpress themes. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. food blogfull screenfullscreengutenbergthemerexwordpress themes share this share tweet pin it share julia starlark julia is a creative writer at themerex, she's in love with wordpress themes and knows how to pick the best design for any niche and purpose. related posts 25+ selling and producing alcohol wordpress themes 2019 whether you have a winery, vineyard, whiskey bar, pub, brewery or another kind of establishment… the most alluring extreme sports wordpress themes are you going in for sports on the edge of danger excite? or maybe you… the best adsense optimized wordpress themes 2019 to make money with your site want to double efforts of making money online? providing an optimum user experience to your… 22 stunning massage salon wordpress themes 2020 today we'll have a look at the best massage wordpress themes and website templates for… 10 ultimate lms wordpress themes to create your online course website have you ever wondered why one online course website succeeds while another one fails? chances… 16 best wordpress themes video background 2020 undeniably, videos are more captivating and engaging than mere text. likewise, videos can convey more… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: the most fruitful agriculture wordpress themes to start your own farm website next post: what wordpress theme would the characters of your favorite tv show select? we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×