start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 17, 2020 20 things life is too short to worry about leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email sometimes my life feels like it’s stuck in neutral – like i’m stuck in an endless loop of introduction with no progress. it’s during these times in my life that i stop, sit down, close my eyes, and reset my brain for 10 to 15 minutes. in doing this, i drop my so-called “problems” from my mind and awaken feeling fresh and energized. i am a nerd with a penchant for numbers and tech, so i tracked my worries as i released their grip on me. here are some problems i found myself worrying about far too often before i discovered how to meditate and refocus. life is too short to worry about any of these 20 things: 1. bills death and taxes are far from the only guarantees in life. you’ll repeatedly have your heart broken; enjoy the sun, the moon, eat drink, and be merry – and you’ll have a hard time in life without paying bills. whether monthly, quarterly, or annually, bills are relentless. if you ignore them, they only get bigger, louder, and more destructive. the thing is: we all have bills…and letting them run your life isn’t going to improve its quality any time soon. it’s easy to say not to worry about bills. everyone knows it’s not a good idea to worry about them, but when you’re drowning in debt and have minimal to no income, it’s a little harder to keep wipe those pesky bills off your mind. being told life is too short to worry about bills is one thing; having the confidence to stand tall despite insurmountable debt is an entirely different beast. i can assure you that losing your house, car, cable, gas, etc. won’t kill you. stop fearing your bills – you’re letting them control your life. here’re some tips: create a budget for yourself and stick to it. put your budget over anything else. this will help you get a better view of your bills and how they affect you. cut unimportant bills. if you’re struggling to make ends meet, cut some of your nonessential bills. cable tv is one of the easiest bills to cut. there’s a plethora of entertainment options out there, and even if you subscribe to netflix, hulu, and amazon prime, you’ll be spending less annually than a cable bill. pay back any debts to family and friends first. they’re the people who will be there for you at the bottom, not your bank and utility companies. keep your collateral loans (i.e auto loan and mortgage) current. the last thing you want to lose is your home and car. if you have to choose between the two, sacrifice your home over your car. in a worst case scenario, it’s better to be mobile. 2. money money is the cause of and solution to life’s most unnecessary problems. we need bread – there’s no denying that – we just don’t need to allow cheddar to be the source of undue stress. always remember that currency is imaginary, and economies don’t exist in nature. since moolah is imaginary, all of your worries about said funds are in your head. people do some strange things for paper, and i’ll never understand why. material wealth doesn’t equate to happiness. instead of stressing about your supply of coinage, try focusing on the things that make you happy. if you pursue a job that satisfies your desire for greenbacks, you risk ending up in a career you hate. dinero won’t solve that problem, nor will it help you find like-minded friends. people who pursue their dreams and passions always have more fulfilling stages than those motivated by loot. 3. the past the beef-witted among us who don’t learn history are doomed to hear it repeated over and over by those who do. most of humanity’s violent wars were waged because of conflicting beliefs over what happened in the past. the past is important to learn from, but you shouldn’t let it get in your way and become a burden. instead, face forward, and brush that dirt off your shoulders. we all faced obstacles in our past. there’s no need to run from or be ashamed of who you are or where you came from, but don’t let what happened to you distract you from your personal goals. learn from your hardships, and fight harder next time. the only way you can continue being harmed by something that already happened is if you let it. 4. gossips gossip is the worst. i don’t mind talking to my friends or partner about what’s going on in their lives, but i’m entirely uninterested in hearing about everyone’s personal lives. advertising what are you gaining – a conversation starter? you’ll end up looking like the work gossip, who nobody likes nor trusts. instead of joining the grapes on the vine, worry about you. while we’re on the subject, there’s really no need for everyone to know about your personal life either. it doesn’t need to be in your repertoire of icebreaking conversation fodder. life’s just too short to worry about what others are doing. 5. haters think about all the celebrities you don’t like or don’t care about: kim kardashian has no business being famous, justin bieber is overrated, lebron james is no michael jordan… regardless of how you feel about any of these people, they have successful careers. although they get their share of hate mail, successful people continue doing what they’re doing. now apply this concept to your own life. people aren’t always going to like what you do; there’s haterade in the water everywhere. whether you’re a local celebrity or a virtual unknown, you’re going to step on some toes. i’ve met people who are the absolute kindest, compassionate, most thoughtful, and likable human beings, and they still have had haters say and do some of the most despicable things to them. if i stopped and stressed out every time someone didn’t like my decisions, i’d never have accomplished anything in life. don’t stress the haters. 6. work there will always be projects, chores, errands, and emergencies at work. nobody has a career that’s without stressful situations. it helps to love what you do, but even if you don’t, work is a silly thing to get uptight about. if you’re not at work, there’s nothing to worry about. if you are at work, then stop crying over spilt milk, roll up your sleeves, and be productive. the less you worry about work, the quicker it goes by. never be ashamed of who you are or what you do to earn a living. you’re not defined by your career; you define it. 7. aging getting old is a difficult and scary task – there’s no denying that. we all go through the same stress, anxiety, fear, worry, and doubt. it’s understandable to feel a little bit stressed about aging, but you have to keep in mind there’s nothing you can do about it. you’re going to age whether you like it or not. there’s nothing you can do to stop the process, but you can embrace it and make the most of your time. aging is a part of life. instead of worrying about your impending geriatric state, enjoy the present you exist in right now. you’ll only be this old once, so do all the fun things you always wanted to do at that age. stop wishing you were younger. don’t waste your time worrying about not being old enough yet either. being young has its advantages. you get small punishments for making mistakes at school or at home, admission prices are cheaper, and bills are usually free. you can’t speed or slow time. enjoy your life the way it is right now. 8. death sooner or later in your life, you’re going to have to face the inevitability of your own death. you can’t dodge the grim reaper, and hiding is only going to hinder you from living your life to the fullest. you won’t give your all when you’re holding back. advertising after you face death, you’ll find it easier to face over and over throughout life. you’ll have more courage and tenacity. death isn’t easy to face; religions have spawned throughout the human history in an attempt to soothe people’s fears of oblivion. if you go to sleep, you may not wake up, and even if you do wake up, no matter how safe you are, we could be nuked by another country or a meteor could fall out the sky and kill us all. unless you’re reading this from a professional shelter, you have no chance of surviving an extinction-level event. now face mortality, and go live your life. 9. what people think when i was younger, i always said i didn’t care what people thought of me, but the reality is very different. in my late 20s, i started to find my passion and what i’d love to do for my life. so i started being me, regardless of what my friends or family thought about it. fitting in is an advantage in certain situations, but it’s certainly not the end-all, be-all for every situation in life. there are times when you need to keep a low profile, but for the most part, unless you’re a secret agent or political leader, feel free to do what makes you happy, regardless of what people think of you. 10. celebrities paparazzi follow celebrities everywhere they go, snapping pictures, videos, and sound bites to feed to the convoluted masses. they’d have no reason to take pictures if there weren’t hordes of people hungering to learn the latest celebrity gossip. why does it matter, though? there’s plenty more going on in the world outside the lives of celebrities. stop worrying about their drama. 11. what other people are doing it’s not just celebrities – some people get into everyone’s business. what can you learn about life from other people’s business? i’m reminded of times as a kid where i would say “but ___ is going to the movies” as a way of convincing my parents to grant me permission to go. their answer was a useful lesson: don’t worry about what other people are doing. they’re not paying your bills or putting food on your table. their problems aren’t yours, and there’s no reason to take them on. if you’re constantly following the example of others, you will never get ahead in life. people who get ahead don’t emulate their peers. they walk their own path and inspire others to follow suit. don’t worry about where everyone else is going or what they’re doing – focus on you. 12. safety and comfort it’s nice to have somewhere safe and comfortable to lay your head at night. comfort foods and our comfort zone are important aspects of our life, and it’s difficult to feel comfortable if you’re not safe. this is why some aspect of safety and comfort is necessary. you can’t get too comfortable in that shell though. sooner or later, you’re going to have to break out of your comfort zone and experience life. taking chances is important in life. if you never take chances, you’ll never stand up for yourself, and you’ll likely not have very much fun. instead of being meek and introverted, stop worrying about living to be 100, and start worrying about having a little bit of fun. after all, you only live once. 13. mistakes don’t worry too much when you make a mistake – nobody’s perfect. when you make a mistake (especially a string of them), it’s easy to get frustrated and feel like everything is falling apart. stress can compound as you race toward deadlines, and the inkling to throw in the towel starts to build up inside. advertising it’s okay. you may need to pay some sort of retribution for your mistake, but that which doesn’t kill you only gives you an opportunity to prove who you really are. figure out what caused the mistake and what you can do next time to avoid it or improve the outcome in at least some minor way. remember what thomas edison said about mistakes being the key to innovation; we stumbled upon some of our greatest inventions by mistake. it’s not the end of the world. learn more about the 40 things you learn from making mistakes 14. your luck there’s nothing wrong with occasionally throwing a couple dollars down on the lottery wanting to win one. someone has to win, and it very well may be you. but you’re not waiting for this pivotal moment to occur in your life before finally taking action. why would you wait for some imaginary (and highly unlikely) windfall before giving life your all? while it’s okay to play the lottery, don’t put all your chips into that. don’t depend on the lottery, or some other unlikely external factor to come swoop you away from your life – work with what you have. by pursuing your dreams and goals, you won’t have to worry about the lottery; you’ll feel like you already won. this article may help you understand more about this: why do i have bad luck? 2 simple things to change your destiny 15. what can go wrong i’m not going to drive to the store today. i may run out of gas, traffic will be busy, the store’s probably closed or crowded, they won’t have the item i’m looking for or it’ll be too expensive, i’ll forget my wallet, my car will get hit in the parking lot, someone may shoot up the store while i’m there, my car will break down, i’ll lose my key, and my house will get robbed while i’m gone… because of these possibilities, i’m going to sit home all day and do nothing instead. if you don’t start something because you’re scared of all the things that may go wrong, you’re probably better off; because you can’t be successful if you don’t know how to react when faced with adversity. no matter how well you make your plans, something is going to go wrong. stop letting what might go wrong stop you from doing what might go right. start taking actions and stop procrastinating. i know that fear is hard to conquer, so you must face it, and this guide can help you: 7 ways to overcome your fear of the unknown and get more out of life 16. worrying after a while, your worries start to pile up to the point that you begin to even worry about worrying. once you’re stuck in this cycle, it’s very difficult to get out. although you’re better off not doing it, there’s nothing wrong with worrying – worrying about worrying is a good sign you need to stop and take a minute. if you ever find yourself in this position, the first thing you need to remember is to breathe. now stop getting frustrated with yourself. advertising if life is too short to worry about death, it’s certainly too short to beat yourself up over being human and having a natural reaction. 17. the price tag price isn’t everything. worry about the quality and value of the product you’re getting. mcdonald’s dollar menu won’t cut it when you’re in the mood for a good steak. i hate to sound bourgeois, but quality is an important aspect in life. if you want a really nice jacket, work hard, sell a few things, and save up the money to buy the one you really want instead of settling for a product you’re not happy with simply because it’s cheaper. 18. the small stuff don’t sweat the small stuff. little things go wrong every day in our lives. you woke up late, a dollar short for your lunch, got splashed by a car walking through the parking lot, tripped going up the stairs, and your zipper was down for a really important meeting… if you consider that a bad day, you’re archiving your life the wrong way. instead of getting frustrated by the little things, focus on all the positives. the sunset, cloud formations, the smell of the trees and flowers around you, food, drinks, love, passion – there are entirely too many great things happening on a day to day basis to worry about the little annoyances in life. 19. anything else outside your control a friend of mine’s mantra when life gets too stressful is, “this too shall pass.” i mix it up between “this is only temporary.” the general idea is to stop yourself from getting annoyed about that which is outside your control. i can’t control the weather, the gas prices, the traffic or natural disasters. but i can control my own attitude and perception on these things. the easiest way to reduce stress is to stop thinking about all the stuff you can’t control so you can focus on whatever task is at hand – whether it’s good or bad, focusing on your present is the easiest way to either resolve or enjoy what’s happening to you. 20. being perfect at the end of the day, you need to accept yourself for your own faults. life’s too short to dwell on anything for too long unless it makes you feel happy and fulfilled. sure, you’ll make mistakes along the way, but that’s part of the fun. stop wasting your time trying to be faultless. test your own boundaries, and you’ll begin to enjoy life so much more. if you think you’re prone to having a perfectionist mindset, this article may help you: how perfectionism secretly screws you up (and how to change your perfectionist mindset) featured photo credit: jake thacker via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how not to let perfectionism secretly screw you up is it really better to step out of your comfort zone? 7 ways to overcome your fear of the unknown and get more out of life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next what is resilience and why is it important? think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.