skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search bootstrap templates the best bootstrap templates that you will ever find shared for free. mainly based on bootstrap 4 to get the most out of your website or upcoming project. we have covered virtually any category such as ecommerce, business, portfolio, blog, education, photography, one page, landing page and many more. we release a template every single day and we are committed to make the biggest selection of free bootstrap templates ever made. bootstrap has taken over the world and millions of developers are using but we made one step further and took bootstrap template development under our umbrella. with 700 free templates and dozens of premium ones we have changed the game forever! developing a website for yourself or your clients has never been easier thanks to our free bootstrap templates. home » bootstrap templates neos neos is a remarkable and free agency business website template with an impactful design that will instantly set you apart from the competition. the appearance of this nifty site skin is modern and creative, making sure all your content comes into view beautifully. startup 2 startup 2 - as the name suggests - is a remarkable free startup website template for building a striking online presence. make an immediate difference and stand out from the masses easily. snipp if you are in the artistic field, running a fresh brand, you better look into snipp free creative business website template. boost your brand through the roof and thrive. wordpress app themes have you built a mobile app and now need a website to showcase it? this mobile app wordpress will help you to set up a professional website in less than a day. wordpress business themes thanks to wordpress and this business wordpress themes, building a website has never been easier. drag and drop page builders are integrated by default. what better and faster way to build a site than with these themes? wordpress dentist themes a wide selection of dental wordpress themes for dental clinics, dentists, odontologists, and orthodontists. building a professional-looking medical website has never been easier thanks to wordpress and these outstanding themes. portfolio wordpress themes a huge selection of the best portfolio wordpress themes for freelancers, designers, businesses and any digital or creative agency. all these wp themes come with many different portfolio options to choose from. blog wordpress themes looking for a wordpress blog theme for lifestyle, fashion, food, personal or any other blog? we have made a list of the best blog themes available today and this list is always up to date with the best options out there. landing page wordpress themes looking for landing page wordpress themes for your app, service or business? here you will find all the best landing page website design examples in form of wordpress themes. cargo cargo - as the name suggests - is a striking, modern and adjustable free cargo website template. if logistics and transportation are something you specialize in, get your word out there with cargo. energen energen is an excellent, eye-catchy and interest-grabbing free beauty business website template. it is a site canvas that suits spa and beauty centers best, but you can use it for other intentions, too. europa europa is a free accommodation website template design for hotels, resorts, motels and other luxury stays. if you would like to raise your business' potential, do it now with the use of europa. industrial industrial is a high-end, modern and sophisticated free steel company website template design. if you are ready to start on the web like a professional, do yourself a favor and download industrial now. loans2go hence the name, loans2go is a free loan website template design that will help you trigger interest in loads more potential clients. it is a bootstrap framework tool that follows all the latest trends and regulations. warehouse warehouse is the number one free real estate listing website template for everyone pushing properties online. you can now put on display all the houses, apartments and other real estates in the best possible light with the use of warehouse. mondy mondy is a sophisticated free property website template design for real estate agencies and agents. starting on the web need not be complicated nowadays. solmusic solmusic is a modern and trendy free music streaming website template for striking online platforms. if you would like to connect artists with fans, start your project strong with the implementation of solmusic. stamina stamina is a remarkable free bootstrap gym website template for fitnesses, personal trainers and everyone else in between. this feature-rich tool is full of amazingness that will put you right on track. findstate findstate is your number one free real estate listing website template. it is a modern, professional and sophisticated tool that will speed up the process of building a top-notch web space. marga marga is an outstanding free modern architecture website template for a killer online presence. whether you are launching a new business or redesigning your existing page, make it happen with the help from marga. the quest the quest is a spectacular free gaming blog website template for all the enthusiasts out there. if you are a fan of video games and would like to start your own online project, create a strong impact on the industry with the quest. violet violet is a modern, trendy and stylish free bootstrap clothing website template for online fashion and apparel stores. speed up the process of launching an ecommerce business now and enter the industry with a bang. xgym xgym is a free modern gym website template that helps you reach a broader audience and grow your business. have in mind, your website is your online brand ambassador that pushes your services and facility to new heights. slim2 slim2 is your outstanding free fitness business website template solution that will raise your potential through the roof. it is a pack full of amazingness that will put you right on track. nissa create a strong and memorable first impression with the use of a free personal photography website template, nissa. this tool is clean, modern and creative, capturing everyone's attention in a snap. unapp with unapp free business app website template, you bring your big project online and share it with the masses. use your imagination, have no limits and set up an extraordinary web space for your product. negotiate negotiate is a top of the line free html5 consulting website template. if you are looking to raise your business' potential, you better not miss checking out negotiate. locals directory locals directory, as the name suggests, is the best free local directory website template. if you would like to create a directory for restaurants, hotels, spas, fitness centers, cinemas, you name it, do it with style and fashion now. legalcare legalcare is your number one free legal practitioner website template for lawyers, attorneys and law firms. if you are ready to scale your business, do not lack an online presence. fancy fancy is a professional looking and completely free creative business website template for medium and small businesses in any industry. page 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 … page 7 next disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×