home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum playlists 2018% solid pop music january 1, 2018 popjustice we update this every week, chucking the best bits of new music friday. at the end of 2018, the playlist will be renamed 2019% solid pop music and the tracklist will reset to zero. a new playlist will be created for the 2018 archive. this playlist is one of popjustice's big four. the big four are: 2018% solid pop music, big hit energy, new music friday: the popjustice edit, and 21st century pop. spotify playlist previous article features the top 45 singles of 2017 december 31, 2017 popjustice have a read next article playlists the popjustice in-store playlist january 1, 2018 popjustice have a read pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits kylie minogue interview: "it took until now for me to be myself." madeon interview: "i say one funny weird thing and that becomes the headline." mutya keisha siobhan: their amazingness is legally binding further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled