skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: home / broadband / shop spectrum internet plans near you shop spectrum internet plans near you by blake hughes on march 4, 2020 in broadband collect this idea image: fizkes/shuttershock spectrum internet service spectrum, also known as charter spectrum, is a subsidiary of charter communications. spectrum offers residential cable tv, internet, voice over ip (voip) and fixed-line phone service and entertainment packages. for businesses, spectrum offers internet access, data networking, fiber connectivity and phone service. spectrum’s partnership with verizon enables them to offer mobile phone service as well. spectrum is one of the largest internet service providers (isp) in the united states, serving 28 million customers in 41 states. spectrum internet: what you need to know spectrum offers internet service starting at $44.99 per month for 12 months for new residential customers in most areas. perks include a free modem, no cap on data transfer and free antivirus software. spectrum internet speeds start at 100 mbps and data transfer speed will vary depending upon where you live, so you may want to check spectrum internet availability and offers in your area. if you are using another provider, spectrum may buy out your existing cable tv or internet contract, up to $500. another benefit of having spectrum internet service is that you get access to their network of wifi access points throughout the u.s. to help you save money on your wireless phone bill. spectrum has attractive packages that combine internet with phone, cable tv and mobile phone offerings. refer to the table below as a quick reference guide to spectrum internet speeds, prices, availability and more. spectrum products spectrum tv, spectrum internet, spectrum voice home phone, spectrum mobile, mi plan latino, spectrum sports networks and spectrum premium channels. spectrum internet speeds 30 mbps, 60 mbps, 100 mbps, 200 mbps, 400 mbps and 940 mbps. spectrum internet prices the current promotion price is $49.99, but prices vary depending on your location and the mbps. spectrum internet availability spectrum internet is available in 41 different states. contract? a contract is not required. spectrum availability with internet service in 41 states, there’s a good chance that you’ll be able to find a spectrum plan in your area. charter communications purchased time warner cable in 2016 and all time warner cable packages were converted to spectrum service offerings, so if you used to be a time warner subscriber, you can now find a spectrum internet deal to meet your needs. spectrum internet is available in alabama, arizona, california, colorado, connecticut, florida, georgia, hawaii, idaho, illinois, indiana, iowa, kansas, kentucky, louisiana, maine, mississippi, montana, nebraska, nevada, new hampshire, new jersey, new mexico, new york, north carolina, ohio, oregon, pennsylvania, rhode island, south carolina, tennessee, texas, vermont, virginia, washington, west virginia, wisconsin, wyoming and more. spectrum internet plans spectrum internet service, rates and promotional pricing vary by address. depending on where you live, you may be able to choose from these spectrum internet deals: standard service spectrum internet ultra spectrum internet assist spectrum internet gig speed of internet speeds vary from 30 mbps, 60 mbps, 100 mbps, 200 mbps and 400 mbps. 400 mbps 30 mbps 940 mbps package features spectrum offers high-speed internet with plenty of bandwidth. speeds can start at 100 mbps, there are no data caps and they’ll never throttle your speed. 20 mbps upload speed with unlimited data. spectrum’s affordable, high-speed internet service with no monthly data caps. to qualify, your household needs to be either on the national school lunch program (free or reduced-cost lunch), or the community eligibility provision of the national school lunch program. you may also qualify if there are senior citizens in the household who are over the age of 65 and who are receiving supplemental security income. this fast connection is perfect for viewing movies, streaming music, uploading and downloading large files for work or school. for optimal speed, you’ll need a docsis 3.1 modem. the connection speed may vary since it’s also determined by your wifi connectivity. starting price prices vary depending on location, speed and more. packages typically start around $45.00. starts around $94.99 per month. $14.99 per month. $129.99 per month. spectrum features free modem – spectrum customers will get a free modem that can be easily installed themselves or with the help of a professional. free antivirus software – you will automatically receive antivirus software to help protect you from cybersecurity issues. in-home wi-fi – connect all of your devices to the in-home network so you’ll have the range and speed to stream and upload. spectrum wi-fi hotspots – get free and unlimited access to spectrum wi-fi hotspots around the nation. these hotspots can help you stay connected while on the move and save data. also read broadband best high-speed internet providers of 2020 broadband wow! internet plans popular stuff give your brick fireplace a facelift - reader story don't stockpile: what to buy for home quarantine during coronavirus bedroom windows buying guide heat pump troubleshooting and repair bedroom windows buying guide popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss