live chat 24/7/365 support toll free: customer login | support | affiliates toggle navigation if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the hostgator website, or otherwise have difficulties using the hostgator website, please call 855-435-0974 and our customer service team will assist you. web hosting website builder wordpress hosting vps dedicated domains pricing support affiliates need help? call us! customer login toggle navigation if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the hostgator website, or otherwise have difficulties using the hostgator website, please call 855-435-0974 and our customer service team will assist you. menu sign into hostgator portal sign into website builder give us a ring at (866) 96-gator hosting shared hosting easy, affordable and awesome. website builder all you gotta do is drag and drop. wordpress hosting their flexibility + our amazing hosting. compare all features pro hosting dedicated hosting the best in both power and performance. vps hosting complete control without the expense. reseller hosting work for a boss you trust: you. compare all features domains register domains claim your perfect name. transfer domains bring your name over to our game. what's a domain name? support live chat have a question? we're here 24/7/365 call us give us a ring at (866) 96-gator knowledge base know what the pros know. commonly asked questions how do i purchase an ssl and what type is it? how do i point my domain to hostgator? hostgator website transfers? affiliates become an affiliate call 24/7/365 at (866) 96-gator sign in → portal head to the customer dashboard. website builder go right into the builder live chat → go where the pros host. web hosting that scales from easy to expert. a ton of website hosting options, 99.9% uptime guarantee, free ssl certificate, easy wordpress installs, and a free domain for a year. yeah, that's how we roll. starting at only $2.75/mo* get started! hosting for every website from small business to enterprise, we've got you covered! website builder easy drag and drop fully customizable mobile friendly starting at only $3.84/mo* get started! wordpress hosting built for speed advanced security free migrations starting at only $5.95/mo* get started! vps hosting dedicated control full root access scalable resources starting at only $19.95/mo* get started! dedicated hosting total control full management tools the ultimate in performance starting at only $119.00/mo* get started! why choose hostgator as your hosting provider? you're different. so are we. let's be different together. we are with you every step of the way. whether you are looking for a personal website hosting plan or a business website hosting plan, hostgator is the perfect solution for you. our powerful website hosting services will not only help you achieve your overall website goals, but will also provide you with the confidence you need in knowing that you are partnered with a reliable and secure website hosting platform. we are one of the easiest website hosting platforms to use, and remain committed to providing our customers with one of the best hosting solutions on the market. get started quickly & easily. for example, our own website builder provides an incredibly convenient drag-and-drop building experience. you can choose from a wide selection of themes, and even pre-built sections, to craft your own amazing website and publish it in no time! let us transfer your existing site for you. our migrations team is standing by to transfer your existing content from your prior host and configure it to perform optimally on our platform. we are happy to transfer domain registrations as well, so you can manage your entire online portfolio in one convenient place! view details our guarantee to you. 24/7/365 support our support staff is available 24/7/365 to assist you via telephone or livechat with any hosting-related questions. 45-day money-back guarantee try our services at no risk! if you're not completely satisfied, you can cancel your hosting plan within 45 days for a complete refund. 99.9% uptime the availability of your website is our top priority. we stand by that fact with our uptime guarantee! which best represents you? select from the following and we'll provide the solutions that are ideal to your specific needs: personal user business owner website pro award winning web hosting our service is top-notch, but don't take our word for it see all awards » sign up for web hosting today! starting at only $2.75/mo* get started! hostgator hosting web hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting reseller hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting application hosting windows hosting website builder domains register domains transfer domains manage domains services codeguard web design ppc seo affiliates become an affiliate affiliate portal support customer portal support portal video tutorials network status live chat company about hostgator awards & reviews press & media company blog contact us careers partners do not sell my info global directory sitemap terms of service privacy copyright 2016 hostgator.com llc. all rights reserved. *prices reflect discount on first term x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.