home speakers login venue register home speakers venue login register the ultimate ecommerce learning conference the 2020 sellers summit live event postponed - virtual event is on! reserve your spot the live sellers summit has been postponed but we're going virtual! due to the corona virus, we had to postpone our live event in may. but just because you can't travel doesn't mean that you can't attend our event! on may 6-8, you can catch all the conference sessions live from the comfort of your own home! that's right! we are holding our entire conference virtually by streaming all of the live sessions direct to your device. you will have the opportunity to ask our speakers questions live as well as participate in all of our virtual networking events. not only that, but every session is also recorded. as a result, you’ll get full access to the replays of every session. yes, every keynote, all the breakouts, workshops and every great session. you can watch playbacks or join us live from your computer, tablet or smartphone at your leisure. reserve your spot we're also holding a virtual mastermind around the time of our virtual summit from may 6-8, we'll also be running a special "virtual" mastermind meeting composed of sellers making at least $100k in revenue. there will be 3 tiers of mastermind groups sellers making over $1m in revenue sellers making over $250k in revenue sellers making over $100k in revenue this will be a very intense virtual event with only 6-8 attendees in each mastermind group. each participant will come away with brand new insights about their business from another entrepreneur's perspective. many people attend the sellers summit just for the mastermind alone! join our virtual mastermind... if you like the idea of spending an afternoon with other enthusiastic, growth-oriented entrepreneurs and working "on" your business rather than "in" your business... if you appreciate the benefits of stepping away and bonding with other ecommerce entrepreneurs in a highly productive environment if you see the value of getting another pair of eyes on your business to find new ways to grow and expand reserve your spot not your ordinary feel good event at the 2020 sellers summit, we're here to teach and for you to learn. in fact, i wouldn't call the sellers summit a "normal" virtual event. it's more like an intense 3 day ecommerce workshop after all, would you rather listen to a bunch of random entrepreneurs tell inspiring stories about their past or would you rather come away with real, actionable strategies that will actually make you money? the sellers summit is the ultimate "ecommerce learning experience" where you will get inspired not by stories, but by gaining all of the knowledge required to run your own successful ecommerce business my goal is to teach you in 3 days what most people struggle to learn in months, if not years. reserve your spot a curriculum based experience that covers how to build a physical products brand the 2020 sellers summit offers a curriculum-based experience where you will learn practical, up to date and actionable ecommerce strategies that actually work. and you'll have access to successful entrepreneurs who are deep in the trenches and proficient at their craft. just imagine coming to an event and having access to a team of experts who will help you find profitable products to sell online import or manufacture goods from asia or source product domestically improve your ecommerce sales run effective advertising campaigns develop a high converting website create email funnels that generate sales on autopilot implement up to date strategies that are working today take your existing business from 6-7 figures to 8 figures and beyond. reserve your spot who this event is for in order to accommodate all types of sellers, the event will be divided into content that covers both amazon and running your own branded store. in today's competitive ecommerce landscape, it is crucial to establish your own brand and sell on amazon as well as on a platform that you control. if you are looking to grow your own branded ecommerce website... you will learn techniques to take your ecommerce brand to the next level whether it be through creating sales funnels, seo, social media, ppc advertising, conversion optimization, email marketing or copywriting. you will have the chance to see how other experienced sellers are executing their sales campaigns and improve upon your own. and most importantly, you will have the opportunity to ask questions live and network virtually with successful sellers with established online brands. if you are looking to grow your amazon business... sellers summit virtual event will give you a clear cut strategy to increase your sales. you will come away with strategies to boost your amazon rankings, increase your conversion rates and drive external traffic to your products. our speakers will also share exclusive strategies they are using to grow their brands. in addition, we're also offering a special virtual mastermind for experienced sellers making at least $100,000, $250,000 or $1,000,000 in revenues. reserve your spot if you make $100,000 or more selling online the sellers summit viritual mastermind is reserved for sellers making at least $100,000 in revenues and have been selling for at least one year. there will be 3 tiers of mastermind groups sellers making over $1m in revenue sellers making over $250k in revenue sellers making over $100k in revenue by taking part in the mastermind, you will focus on breaking through current limitations or struggles in your "own business", while forging relationships with other highly successful ecommerce entrepreneurs who have walked or are currently walking in your shoes. this will be an intense event with only 6-8 attendees in each mastermind group. each participant will come away with brand new insights about their business from another entrepreneur's perspective. in short, this could be the most valuable component of the conference... if you like the idea of meeting with other enthusiastic, growth-oriented entrepreneurs and working "on" your business rather than "in" your business... if you appreciate the benefits of stepping away and bonding with other ecommerce entrepreneurs in a highly productive environment if you see the value of getting another pair of eyes on your business to find new ways to grow and expand how the mastermind will be structured the mastermind day will be divided into two sections. first, each participant will be given 5 minutes to share the specific details behind something that is working really well in their business. even though we are all successful, there are always strategies that are being employed that you may have no idea about. for example, i took part in recent mastermind that influenced me to redesign my entire ecommerce store. as a result, my conversion rates have increased over 46%. second, each participant will participate in a "hot seat" where the other members of the group will give specific feedback and suggestions for how you can break through your current challenge. you will come away with new insights, clarity, and relationships with the other attendees - all of whom are going through, or have gone through, the challenges you are experiencing. you will have a new group of friends on your speed dial who you can depend on to help you as you continue to grow your ecommerce business. sellers summit 2020 session list the secrets to you tube marketing that drive 40% of our sales with eric bandholz the important elements that you need to know to successfully run a youtube channel that grows organically and generates sales. 250,000 orders in 2 years - how to captivate customers with story with derek halpern derek launched his ecommerce company in february 2018. in less than 2 years, he's gotten over 250,000 orders. the secret? storytelling. and in this session, he'll break down how he did it. how the top ecommerce businesses scale up (and what you can learn from them) with austin brawner in this session, you'll learn: how the fastest growing ecommerce brands scale up quickly, and how you can apply the lessons from their growth. how to simplify your business so you can scale up without the stress that normally comes from increasing revenue and overhead. how to avoid getting suckered into a zero-sum game with the “sexy” ecommerce companies in our space who are playing a different game than you. how to scale up your advertising without getting sold down the river by an overpromising agency. how to avoid the 9 pitfalls i’ve consistently seen founders fall into at different points in their growth stages. mastering ecommerce seo in 60 minutes with jeff oxford in this jam-packed session, you’ll learn exactly how you can leverage seo to drastically improve your rankings and organic search revenue. i’ll be sharing the exact techniques i’ve used to rank dozens of ecommerce websites on page 1. we’ll be covering topics such as page optimization, technical seo improvements, link building, and content marketing. expect to walk away with an actionable list of seo improvements you can make to your own website this week. how to 3x your conversions with a chatbot campaign with natasha takahashi more than 20 billion messages are exchanged on facebook messenger every month, between businesses and 1.4 billion active users. if you aren’t one of the 40 million businesses using this platform the right way as a communication, marketing, and sales channel for your business... you’re missing out big-time. in this fast-paced, no-bs session, school of bots cmo, natasha takahashi will share a messenger bot campaign formula that has generated consistent, predictable results for 100+ brands including billy gene is marketing, mindvalley, matthew hussey, and social media examiner. after this session, you’ll be ready to create a high-converting chatbot campaign immediately — whether it’s your first or next bot. scaling facebook through hidden audiences with nick shackleford everyone knows that facebook is getting more and more difficult.. but what if you put in a little extra work in working with content creators to find audiences that were never previously open to you... i'll show you what happens when influencers meet facebook at scale. a low-cost strategy to protect against chinese knockoffs with steven weigler in this session, steven will show you a proven strategy for protecting your intellectual property and preventing chinese knockoffs from being sold on amazon mastering google ads for amazon and sponsored brand video ads with brett curry in this session, brett will teach you how to run google ads to boost both your amazon and ecommerce store sales. how to create a team in the philippines to manage operations with mike jackness in this session, you'll learn how to outsource vital parts of your team to the phillipines and drastically cut your employment costs. selling on amazon - what's working in 2020 with brad moss in this session, former head of seller central brad moss will teach us what's working and what's changed for amazon in 2020 and beyond. how to use the power of storytelling to boost your brand with michael jamin michael has been writing for television since 1996. his many credits include just shoot me, king of the hill, beavis & butthead, wilfred, out of practice, rules of engagement, lopez and tacoma fd. by applying his knowledge of storytelling, michael grew twirlygirl into a multi-million dollar girls clothing brand. how to grow your revenue and repeat sales with direct mail marketing with drew sanocki most online store owners rely on ppc platforms like facebook or google for their advertising. but direct mail marketing is a powerful advertising medium that is often neglected. in this session, you'll learn how to apply direct mail marketing to drastically increase your sales. understanding the big picture when managing your supply chain with elizabeth mercer after this session, you'll understand the big picture: how suppliers, amazon, and your freight forwarder all connect elizabeth will share her complete checklist with suggested dates on the supply chain for each product- when to get labels, when to send box designs, etc. you also learn how she negotiates with suppliers to extract the lowest prices possible. the latest amazon ppc strategies to scale for growth with ed ruffin in this session edward will teach you the latest strategies to scale growth through your ads. he'll also share up to date tactics for running your own ads and how to recognize when you may need to hire an expert. how to get massive results in your business and do what truly matters! with scott voelker when it comes to running your business, it's easy to get overwhelmed with strategies and tactics. in this session, scott will go over his methodology for prioritizing tasks and focusing on what matters how to use sms marketing to grow your business with klaviyo in this session, you'll learn sms marketing strategies you can use to engage your new leads and convert them into high lifetime value customers. getting amazon reviews in 2020 with greg mercer product reviews can make or break an amazon fba seller. it is important that you know how to get product reviews on amazon - and how to get them quickly and legally. join greg as he talks about the most effective ways to get product reviews on amazon, utilizing both the amazon way and seller methods. 2020 speakers more to be announced soon steve chou (host) founder @ mywifequitherjob.com bumblebeelinens.com profitableonlinestore.com steve started selling online when his wife wanted to quit her job to stay at home with the kids. he now runs several 6 figure businesses which include an ecommerce store, a blog, a podcast and an ecommerce training class. learn more austin brawner founder brandgrowthexperts.com founder ecommerce influence austin brawner is the host of the ecommerce influence podcast and chief fixer at brand growth experts. he’s a sought after email marketing consultant, and popular speaker on marketing for ecommerce and business learn more drew sanocki ceo @ nerdmarketing.com ceo @ autoanything.com 9 figure seller drew founded his first ecommerce company, designpublic.com, shortly after receiving his mba from stanford and went on to sell it in 2011. since then, he's started 2 other agencies, consults regularly with fortune 500 ecommerce companies and runs autoanything.com. learn more toni anderson founder @ the oil collection pinterest expert content marketing expert having run pinterest advertising campaigns for multi-million dollar companies such as savings.com and working with brands such as kraft, musselmans, smuckers and arm & hammer, today toni runs her own media company and ecommerce store. learn more ezra firestone ceo @ smart marketer zipify a veteran in the ecommerce industry, ezra has sold millions of dollars worth of products, real estate and training courses online and is thought by many to be one of the world's leading experts in ecommerce learn more brett curry ceo @ omgcommerce.com ppc expert 7 figure ecommerce agency brett is the author of the ultimate guide to google shopping published by shopify. his ecommerce agency has helped over 125 companies with their ppc advertising and he speaks and writes for major publications all over the world. learn more mike jackness ceo @ colorit.com ecomcrew.com 7 figure store owner mike created colorit.com and grew it into a 7 figure business in 4 months. he's owned a variety of other ecommerce stores including icewraps.com and cuttingboard.com and runs an awesome podcast over at ecomcrew.com learn more eric bandholz founder @ beard brand beardbrand.com eric is a husband, father, entrepreneur and the founder of beardbrand.com, one of the largest beard care brands in the world. what started out as a simple blog has turned into a full-fledged 8 figure business and a revolution. learn more natasha takahashi founder @ school of bots schoolofbots.co natasha is the chief marketing officer and co-founder of school of bots, the trusted chatbot resource for marketers and entrepreneurs. with school of bots having taught chatbot strategies to 6000+ people in 30+ countries, natasha is a leading authority on chatbot marketing. learn more jeff oxford seo expert @ 180 marketing ecommerce seo specialist jeff has helped large and small online retailers increase revenues through effective search engine optimization campaigns utilizing specialized, proprietary methodologies. he's also the resident seo expert at ecommercefuel.com learn more derek halpern co-founder @ truvani truvani.com derek is the chief marketing officer and co-founder of truvani, a health and food products company that has quickly grown to an 8 figure business in less than 2 years. derek is also known for teaching entrepreneurs how to start and grow companies. learn more brad moss former head of seller central @ amazon founder productlabs.net as a former amazonian who headed up seller central, brad has intimate knowledge of the inner workings of amazon and the seller central platform. his company productlabs.net offers innovative software that allows sellers to extract demographic information from amazon customers learn more michael jamin founder @ twirly girl brand story expert michael jamin has been writing for television since 1996. his many credits include just shoot me, king of the hill, beavis & butthead, wilfred, out of practice, rules of engagement, lopez and tacoma fd. by applying his knowledge of storytelling, michael grew his wife’s company twirlygirl into a multi-million dollar brand. learn more greg mercer ceo @ jungle scout 7 figure amazon seller greg makes $400k/month selling on amazon and is also the creator of the popular tool jungle scout, the leading amazon product research tool online. greg is a master of finding profitable products to sell on amazon. learn more edward ruffin ppc expert @ seller labs amazon ppc veteran known as "ppc ed", edward is well versed in all things amazon advertising and his specialty is sponsored products ads. he routinely helps sellers with the most-limited budgets as well as those working with ad spends in the tens of thousands of dollars. learn more elizabeth mercer ceo @ sleekform 7 figure amazon seller a specialist in building remote teams, productivity, and team organization hacks, elizabeth has built a 7-figure physical product business as well as co-owning and helping run jungle scout, a suite of tools for amazon sellers. she is passionate about creating remote teams having experience going from 2 to over 100 employees learn more scott voelker founder @ the amazing seller podcast 6 figure amazon seller scott runs the amazing seller podcast, a top 25 business podcast on itunes, and is known for making 47k in 90 days selling on amazon. scott is an incredible teacher and runs his own amazon selling training class as well. learn more steven weigler founder @ emergecounsel ip protection lawyer steven specializes in protecting intellectual property and information technology law. his years of entrepreneurial experience give him a unique insight into emerging companies, and he strives to be the legal “go-to” legal counsel for his clients’ growing businesses. learn more alexandra edelstein klaviyo.com senior product manager alexandra is an expert in data-driven & results-oriented lifecycle marketing. she is currently a senior product manager at klaviyo, where she is leading development of klaviyo's core marketing automation software. learn more chuck mullins quiet light brokerage partner chuck is regarded regarded as one of the foremost experts on the acquisition of online assets. his specialty is in assisting other business owners in entering and exiting their online businesses. learn more alumni speakers brad moss former head of seller central @ amazon founder productlabs.net as a former amazonian who headed up seller central, brad has intimate knowledge of the inner workings of amazon and the seller central platform. his company productlabs.net offers innovative software that allows sellers to extract demographic information from amazon customers learn more molly pittman ceo @ digital strategy bootcamps marketing expert molly pittman is a digital marketing expert and the co-host of perpetual traffic, a digital marketing podcast that has been downloaded 3mm+ times. she has certified thousands of marketers in paid traffic and customer acquisition and personally spent $8mm+ on paid traffic channels like facebook, google, and twitter. learn more matt sanocki ceo @ mineral.io email marketing expert a 15 year ecommerce veteran, matt runs mineral.io, a hybrid consulting agency, creative design and email marketing services provider. prior to mineral.io, he and his brother drew both ran two 7 figure companies, design public and karma loop. learn more ezra firestone ceo @ smart marketer zipify a veteran in the ecommerce industry, ezra has sold millions of dollars worth of products, real estate and training courses online and is thought by many to be one of the world's leading experts in ecommerce learn more nathan resnick trysourcify.com manufacturing specialist nathan resnick is the ceo of sourcify, a platform that makes manufacturing easy. in the past, nathan has brought dozens of products to market, ran three ecommerce companies (sold one), and been a part of projects on kickstarter raising over seven figures. learn more edward ruffin ppc expert @ seller labs amazon ppc veteran known as "ppc ed", edward is well versed in all things amazon advertising and his specialty is sponsored products ads. he routinely helps sellers with the most-limited budgets as well as those working with ad spends in the tens of thousands of dollars. learn more trent dyrsmid brightideas.co 7 figure amazon seller sop master trent dyrsmid is a serial entrepreneur, husband, and father. his 3 private companies (tlksourcing.com, flowster.app, brightideas.co) generate millions a year in revenue; all thanks to an intense focus on standard operating procedures. learn more casey gauss founder viral-launch.com casey is the founder and ceo of viral launch, a tech company offering innovative software for amazon sellers. he has intimate knowledge of the amazon product niche finding and launch process and has helped thousands of sellers launch successful products on amazon. learn more ilana wechsler ceo @ green arrow digital google ads expert ilana is a former data analyst, turned ppc expert. she is the founder of a boutique digital agency called green arrow digital which specializes exclusively in pay per click marketing. her agency manages well over $1 million / year in ad campaigns across multiple platforms. learn more pam cail rpc consulting freight forwarder/logistics specialist with over 30 years in the logistics industry, pam recognized the growth in the e-commerce industry early, and established a specialized team in her organization dedicated to the e-comm customer. learn more alexandra edelstein klaviyo.com senior product manager alexandra is an expert in data-driven & results-oriented lifecycle marketing. she is currently a senior product manager at klaviyo, where she is leading development of klaviyo's core marketing automation software. learn more craig gentry gotfreshbreath.com founder craig runs a 7 figure ecommerce business selling mouthwash in a machine that he invented to dispense it. his customers are all b2b and he basically makes his money off of 2 main skus. learn more rachel miller ceo @ moolah marketing facebook brand page expert rachel is known for creating facebook pages that reach millions of fans. in the past year one of those audiences has brought in over 250k in revenue, with high profit margins. her most recent product launch generated 90k in sales in a single week. she will share how to make your products get viral attention. learn more reza khadjavi shoelace.com founder and ceo facebook retargeting expert as the cofounder and ceo of shoelace, reza is an expert at running facebook retargeting campaigns and battling ad fatigue. his company helps thousands of businesses supercharge their retargeting by taking visitors through an engaging sequence of ad experiences. learn more jason katz cmo @ gen.video influencer marketing expert with over 25 years of agency experience in digital & influencer marketing, social media, cause marketing, ecommerce and retail marketing, jason is passionate about building high growth, innovative companies/teams with compelling points of difference and amazing culture. he is also an adjunct professor of ecommerce at nyu. learn more manuel becvar ceo @ importdojo.com mandarin-gear.com 7 figure store owner manuel has worked with some of the biggest retailers in the world including wal-mart, lowes,sears and home depot to find and source products for them. he's an expert when it comes to working with factories in china and he's well versed with the standards and product requirements involved. learn more cynthia stine ceo @ egrowthpartners.com amazon suspension expert blogger & author cynthia stine is the founder of egrowth partners the industry’s leading consulting firm dedicated to helping amazon sellers get reinstated and avoid suspensions from the platform. she has a team to help sellers get their accounts back, asin reinstatements, feedback repair, suspension prevention and more. learn more brian johnson founder @ ppcscope founder @ sponsored products academy brian has been selling physical products online for over 10 years, including ebay for seven years, and amazon for three years. in 2015, he began consulting for brands with high revenues and now specializes in amazon’s pay per click advertising platform. he is co-founder of ppcscope and the sponsored products academy training course learn more andrew youderian founder @ ecommercefuel.com rightchannelradios.com trollingmotors.net andrew is the founder of the incredibly popular blog/podcast at ecommercefuel.com and a 7 figure dropshipped online store at rightchannelradios.com. in addition, he runs a private membership forum catering specifically to ecommerce merchants. learn more lars hundley founder @ cleanairgardening.com yoyoplay.com lars has been selling online since 1998 and is the founder of several 7 figure ecommerce stores. not only has he been featured in inc and entrepreneur magazine but he also owns a youtube channel with over 4.5 million views and a facebook page with over 700k fans, learn more steve weiss ceo @ mutesix.com facebook ads junkie customer acquisition expert steve weiss is a life-long entrepreneur and ceo of mutesix a leading performance marketing agency specializing in ecommerce and has helped numerous companies scale profitably into 8 figures ad spends on facebook. steve is also a contributor on huffington post, adage, and numerous other industry publications. learn more spencer haws ceo @ longtailpro.com nichepursuits.com 6 figure amazon seller spencer is the founder of the widely used keyword research tool, long tail pro. in addition, he blogs and podcasts at nichepursuits.com about seo strategies, building niche sites, and the success of his recent amazon fba business. learn more autumn wyda ceo @ shineweddinginvitations.com 7 figure store owner a specialist in online selling, design, and photography, autumn has utilized both her technical and creative sides to build a 7 figure e-commerce business. in addition to selling through shineweddinginvitations.com, autumn is also a top seller on etsy.com and manages a semi-virtual team of employees. learn more ben turcotte feinternational.com digital marketing expert an executive broker at feinternational.com and former account manager at social fulcrum, ben has managed millions of dollars of ad spend for large, multi-million dollar companies. today, ben leverages his experiences in the digital marketing space to help investors maximize the value of their acquisitions learn more kurt freytag fmr head of product @crunchbase ecommerce director @the body shop web analytics expert former head of product at crunchbase and the founder of two web tech consulting firms, kurt is an expert with web analytics and a master of finding insights, trends and outliers that are hidden in visitor data. he was also responsible for the global rollout of ecommerce for the body shop learn more eric siu ceo @ singlegrain.com growtheverywhere.com eric is the ceo of digital marketing agency single grain and the founder of the entrepreneurial podcast, growth everywhere. he was previously the head of growth at online education startup treehouse and contributes to entrepreneur magazine, forbes, fast company, time magazine and more. learn more xiaohui wang ceo @ essenceofemail.com email marketing expert x has extensive experience in email marketing for ecommerce shops, handling ranges of accounts from mom & pop stores to ir500 retailers. he started essence of email at the beginning of 2014 to help independent ecommerce store owners excel within this effective marketing channel. learn more austin brawner founder brandgrowthexperts.com founder ecommerce influence austin brawner is the host of the ecommerce influence podcast and chief fixer at brand growth experts. he’s a sought after email marketing consultant, and popular speaker on marketing for ecommerce and business learn more jared stark lawtrades.com stark business law llc jared is a business attorney for startups and ecommerce entrepreneurs. he founded stark business law pllc, where he dedicates his practice to helping people start, grow, and protect their businesses online. learn more jeff cohen partner @ seller labs 14 year ecommerce veteran jeff and his partners at seller labs started with a 7-figure amazon business and turned it into a software company which serves thousands of amazon sellers who did over 2.3 billion in 3rd party sales in 2015. seller labs was named #1 young tech start up in atlanta for 2015. learn more zach smith ceo funded.today crowdfunding specialist zach is the founder of funded.today, america's leading crowdfunding marketing agency. over the years, he has raised millions for various crowdfunding campaigns and is a master of his craft. learn more daniel solid ceo @ solidstrategic 7 figure amazon seller a seasoned amazon seller and ecommerce strategist, daniel specializes in product selection, sourcing & packaging, and launching profitable private label products sold on amazon. he leads a virtual team in the philippines, china, and the usa that runs the operations side of his business so he can focus on strategy. learn more drew sanocki ceo @ nerdmarketing.com founder @ designpublic.com 9 figure seller drew founded his first ecommerce company, designpublic.com, shortly after receiving his mba from stanford and went on to sell it in 2011. since then, he's started 2 other agencies and consults regularly with fortune 500 ecommerce companies. learn more bernie thompson ceo @ plugable tech founder @ efficient era 8 figure amazon seller bernie is the founder of a multi-million dollar private-label electronics brand on amazon, that has grown every year since 2009. he is also the founder of efficient era, a saas platform that provides automation and analytics tools for amazon sellers. learn more michael paulson jungle scout chief product officer michael paulson is the chief product officer at jungle scout. previously he has led product teams in the commerce technology space at amazon, microsoft, decide, ebay and most recently bazaarvoice. learn more dana jaunzemis ceo @ homehealthtesting.com 7 figure store owner dana specializes in acquiring existing stores whose sales have plateaued and reignites their growth. she is a master of uncovering the strengths of a business and strategically growing with a laser focus on profits. she recently tripled the profit of her last acquisition within a year. learn more bill d'alessandro ceo @ elementsbrands.com rebelceo.com 7 figure store owner bill owns several ecommerce brands in the beauty and skin care space. his products can be found online and in big retailers such as whole foods and other national chains. learn more current pricing all-access virtual summit pass $497 $349 grand opening virtual party video recordings of all sessions live q&a for all sessions all demos + expert panels access to speakers & case-studies register now virtual mastermind pass pricing (must earn > $100k) $999 $699 grand opening virtual party video recordings of all sessions live q&a for all sessions all demos + expert panels access to speakers & case-studies special private virtual mastermind workshop special private mastermind virtual hangout (space is extremely limited) register now 2020 sponsors please contact toni(at)sellerssummit.com for more information reserve your spot address 1050 kiely blvd #3495 santa clara, ca 95055 contact (650) 691-5345 steve(at)sellerssummit.com copyright © mwqhj llc 2020