skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: home / broadband / find verizon internet plans in your area find verizon internet plans in your area by blake hughes on march 4, 2020 in broadband collect this idea image: fizkes/shuttershock about verizon internet verizon communications is a global communications company that was formed on june 30, 2000, from a merger of bell atlantic corporation and gte corporation. through its bell atlantic origin, verizon can trace its lineage all the way back to alexander graham bell, who invented the telephone in 1876. today, verizon is a leader in wireless communications, having made $110 billion investment in network infrastructure, spectrum purchases and previous mergers and acquisitions of alltel, mci, aol and yahoo. known for its mobile phone service with 4g and 5g network coverage available throughout the u.s., verizon also offers tv and internet service packages in the northeastern u.s. verizon internet service: what you need to know with speeds ranging from 100 mbps to 940 mbps, verizon offers services to fit the needs of any household. verizon home internet plans are available in the northeastern u.s. and mid-atlantic region, where verizon serves 15.6 million customers. you can use this table as a quick reference to learn more about verizon internet. for more information, visit allconnect.com. verizon internet products fios gigabit connection, verizon dsl, and fios tv. verizon internet speeds from 100 mbps to 940 mbps. verizon internet prices verizon prices range from $39.99 to $79.99 per month. availability verizon internet is available in eight states however, their services are only available in select cities and washington dc. contract verizon offers contract and month-to-month options. verizon availability verizon fios gigabit high-speed internet service is available in new jersey, new york (new york city, albany, buffalo, long island, plattsburgh, staten island and syracuse,) maryland (baltimore and salisbury,) delaware, massachusetts (boston,) pennsylvania (harrisburg, philadelphia, pittsburgh,) rhode island (providence,) virginia (norfolk and richmond,) washington, dc. verizon dsl is available in new jersey, new york, pennsylvania, delaware, massachusetts, maryland, rhode island, virginia and washington, dc. you can search ‘verizon internet in my area’ if you’re unsure if verizon is available in your location. verizon internet plans verizon offers various packages within both the fios (fiber optic service) and dsl (digital subscriber line) internet options. they also offer packages that bundle tv, internet, and phone. if you’re looking for internet at even higher speeds, verizon provides that too. if you live in some parts of boston, ma, new york, new jersey, philadelphia, pa, norfolk or richmond va, you can enjoy fios connection speeds up to 940/880 mbps. other fios areas offer symmetrical speeds as fast as 500/500mbps. you can search ‘fios internet in my area’ if you’re unsure if fios is available in your location. fios internet plans internet package internet speed package features starting price fios internet speeds range from 100 mbps, 300 mbps, 500 mbps, 880 mbps and 940 mbps. the fios internet option is a 100% fiber-optic network that offers the fastest speeds. it’s great for streaming, browsing and bundling with other services for even more value. verizon internet prices start from $39.99 per month and go up to $79.99 per month. dsl dsl speeds range from .5 mbps, 15 mbps, 100 mbps, and 300 mbps. dsl connects you to the internet over your telephone network. it’s great for those who want to use a modem to connect to the internet, don’t want to share speed with neighbors and want to use phone and internet at the same time. dsl offers higher speed and performance than dialup. dsl prices range from $39.99 per month to $69.99 per month. verizon features if you subscribe to either fios or verizon dsl standalone internet service, it includes one email address per connection. anti-virus software is available for an additional $15.00 per month. depending on where you live, you may also qualify for special offers check with verizon for promotions in your area for free equipment, such as modems, or to see if they will waive the installation fee. wireless router – after purchasing your equipment from verizon, they’ll provide you with a wireless router that offers firewall protection and a fast connection to multiple devices. home network support – verizon customers will have access to the support network, which offers tips and advice on using the service. learn how to add devices to your network and keep everything secure. safeguard features – features such as virus protection, 24/7 tech support, and parental controls will help protect you from hackers, viruses and other threats. with access to support 24/7 you will always have someone to help you with any issues that may pop up. also read broadband best high-speed internet providers of 2020 broadband wow! internet plans popular stuff give your brick fireplace a facelift - reader story don't stockpile: what to buy for home quarantine during coronavirus bedroom windows buying guide heat pump troubleshooting and repair bedroom windows buying guide popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss