skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: home / broadband / find at&t internet plans near you find at&t internet plans near you by blake hughes on march 4, 2020 in broadband collect this idea image: wavebreakmedia/shuttershock at&t internet service for fast speeds, nationwide hotspots and customer rewards, at&t internet is an affordable option for consumers looking for a service powerful enough to connect and support all of their favorite devices. downloading, streaming and gaming are made easy with high-speed internet and fiber-powered plans, while solutions like the smart home manager lets customers monitor and manage their wi-fi network right from their smartphone. at&t internet is available in 21 different states. at&t internet: what you need to know whether you simply want to stream video or you have multiple family members using the internet simultaneously, at&t provides internet services for every household type. refer to the table below as a quick reference guide to at&t internet speeds, prices, availability and more. at&t products at&t high-speed internet, fiber internet, u-verse tv, at&t tv, at&t watch tv, digital home phone and landline, hd dvr, at&t wireless at&t internet speeds 100 mbps, 300 mbps and 1000 mbps (1 gig) at&t internet prices the current promotion price for the 100 mbps internet is $50 per month and the regular price is $60 per month. the current promotion price for 300 mbps internet is $50 per month and the regular price is $80 per month. the current promotion price for the 1000 mbps internet is $70 per month and the regular price is $100 per month. at&t availability at&t internet is available in 21 different states. you can visit allconnect to discover if at&t services are available in your area. contract? a contract is not required to purchase at&t internet. however, a contract may be required to be qualified for certain at&t internet deals. at&t availability at&t internet is available in 21 states, including alabama, arkansas, california, florida, georgia, illinois, indiana, kansas, kentucky, louisiana, michigan, mississippi, missouri, nevada, north carolina, ohio, oklahoma, south carolina, tennessee, texas and wisconsin. you can call 1-833-630-3736 to find out if your address is serviceable for at&t internet. at&t internet packages internet 100 internet 300 internet 1000 speed of internet 100 mbps 300 mbps 1000 mbps (1 gig) package features the internet 100 package is ideal for streaming hd videos, online gaming, and sharing large files. you can upload a four-minute hd video in two seconds on this plan. the internet 300 package is great for multiple users, streaming, gaming, and sharing large files. you can upload a four-minute hd video in one second on this plan. the internet 1000 package is ideal for connected homes, multiple users, serious online gaming, telecommuting, and creative collaboration. upload a four-minute hd video in less than a second on this plan. starting price regular prices for the internet 100 package begin at $60 per month. regular prices for the internet 300 package begin at $80 per month. regular prices for the 1000 internet package begin at $100 per month. at&t features nationwide wi-fi access – at&t high-speed internet gives customers access to wi-fi hotspots across the country. the at&t wi-fi hot spot network provides on-the-go access so you can respond to that important work email from anywhere. this is great for customers who travel and need access to the internet at all times. powerful online security – the at&t internet security suite gives customers the tools they need to protect themselves from online scams like phishing, cyberattacks and fraud. qualifying customers receive the security suite for free, which includes firewall, anti-virus, anti-spyware and more. whole-home connection – all at&t internet plans come with a wireless router for a whole-home connection. this means you can access the internet from any device, whether you need to check email on your phone or stream videos from your laptop or tablet. a whole-home connection allows for strong signal no matter where you’re accessing the internet in your home. 24/7 customer support – all at&t internet customers have access to a 24-hour, seven days a week support line that connects to an at&t expert who can help with technical issues, troubleshooting and account assistance. you can call this number at any time for quick customer service. also read broadband best high-speed internet providers of 2020 broadband wow! internet plans popular stuff give your brick fireplace a facelift - reader story don't stockpile: what to buy for home quarantine during coronavirus bedroom windows buying guide heat pump troubleshooting and repair bedroom windows buying guide popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss