skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 21 best free wordpress booking plugins 2020 21 best free wordpress booking plugins 2020 march 27, 2020 rokr plugins 4 comments your reservation- and appointment-based businesses are fully sorted with free wordpress booking plugins. while you can sign up with some of the world’s leading online websites to do the booking and promotion for you, sometimes, it is better to have it all in-house. it gives you way more control and helps you go on a more personal level with the people interested in your services. not to mention, you can capture the information and contacts of your clients, too. you can then use a wordpress newsletter to stay in touch with the customers and further promote to them your goodies. for local businesses, from hairdressers, dentists, consultants, and even hotels, a booking plugin for your wordpress sites is helpful. it is not always that people have the time to give you a call to arrange the perfect appointment or book a room. also, not everybody will be comfortable calling you. not only that, it makes it easier for you, the owner, to avoid manually checking at what time and date your services are free. you can all customize it with a dedicated tool. a huge advantage of offering to book on your website is that you avoid the fees. there is no middleman. all in all, it comes down to what your long-term plans are for your business. moreover, it depends on the size of your business. however, to gain some quick recognition, you can sign up for a service and later on migrate to a self-served platform. the options are endless. if you’re just starting out, check out our complete collection of wordpress themes with booking forms integrated. on the other hand, if you want to expand your existing sites and make them look more professional, keep on scrolling and find the best free wordpress booking plugins below. hotel booking lite as the name suggests, hotel booking lite is a wordpress booking plugin for everyone who is in the accommodation business. it is a tool that simplifies the process of bookings, keeping your business as organized as possible. regardless of the theme you use, hotel booking lite integrates seamlessly. that said, you can now easily and quickly create an online booking system for your hotel, motel, hostel and even real estate. hotel booking lite has no problem handling tons of properties, as well as allows all sorts of extras. it sports real-time search availability form, custom pricing, taxes, shortcodes, widgets, supports multiple currencies and more. have in mind, hotel booking lite is already localized to fourteen different languages, as well as comes fully compatible with the wpml plugin. take your business to new heights by sorting out a sophisticated online booking system. more info / download booking calendar shall we begin with the oldest available plugin on the market? why not? booking calendar comes with a calendar and a booking option for your online services. well, it could be offline, too; it’s just that the reservation process happens on the internet. complicated? not really. booking calendar is flexible in function and allows every business that works on a booking basis to benefit from it. you will blend it into the style of your site and make it look like it is part of it from the get-go. it is fully responsive so every user, mobile, tablet, and desktop can check availability and make a booking smoothly. you can freely customize the design of booking calendar and make it follow your branding. in just three steps, users will finish their reservation and you will receive an email notification. from then on, you have an option to approve or decline the reservation in the user-friendly admin panel. you also have a complete overview of the bookings by day, week or month. download booking calendar, it is free, and start making adjustments so it perfectly fits your needs. you can even import .ics feeds via booking calendar’s booking manager from sites like airbnb, tripadvisor, booking.com and any other service that uses .ics format. more info / download sagenda for project owners and freelancers working with clients, whoever needs an online reservation solution, sagenda is a free wordpress booking plugin that will take care of your needs. at no cost, you can have your web appointments sorted or help a client out. you are not limited to any number of bookings, and you can take care of as many customers as you would like. treat yourself right to a free booking system, and have your business as organized as possible. to activate sagenda, create an account first to get you an authentication code to use later to validate the plugin. when you install and adjust sagenda to your needs, new and existing clients can start choosing the time and date per their request. when ready, they can pay via paypal or even use a credit card. all the major credit cards are supported to offer your customers as many purchasing options as possible. also, sagenda is translated into many languages already, like chinese, danish, french, hindi, polish, russian, and spanish, to name a few. of course, by default, the plugin comes in english. are you prepared to ditch sticky notes and have all your appointments available online? more info / download booking calendar contact form the booking calendar contact form plugin is a contact form, a calendar, plus a booking process, all blended into one tool. with this plugin, you can create both the classic contact form or add a reservation calendar to it and have an online reservation ready. it is easy as pie. moreover, this plugin connects with paypal to offer your clients a way to seal the deal. after clicking on the booking button, customers get redirected to paypal to complete the reservation. from then on, three emails are sent out: the paypal notification, the booking confirmation to the client, and an email notification to the website owner. once completed, a confirmed booking appears in the list and calendar. the selected dates are then blocked from the calendar, so reservations cannot overlap. however, you can disable the “booking overlap” option in case you are hosting a webinar where an unlimited amount of users can join. booking calendar contact form also allows you to set different prices for different times of the year. this can be for hotels where high-season prices are higher compared to low-season ones. there is also quite a bunch of things you can do with the free version of the plugin. there is always the premium upgrade available, though. more info / download wp simple booking calendar for a quick and simple solution for the apartments or rooms you are renting, pick wp simple booking calendar. it is one of the most basic plugins on the market. still, it’s powerful enough to cover the essentials. you can also upgrade to the premium version at any time. here, though, we speak only about the free option that you can test right away. you can use wp simple booking calendar for basically any type of bookings and reservations. with just a few clicks, visitors can check the availability of your bed & breakfast. this saves time when chatting with them and picking the exact dates when they would like to book. it is called “simple” for a reason. it’s useful when you still want to do part of the reservation process manually. the free version of wp simple booking calendar allows you to build one calendar and display availabilities. also, it features language translation options with po files, but this is essentially it. i told you it is called “simple” for a reason. it is a calendar that displays the availability of your holiday apartment. more info / download pinpoint booking system by picking any from our collection of the top free wordpress booking plugins, you can fully organize your business. scheduling, renting, booking, and reserving are done easily with pinpoint booking system. just as much as you will enjoy editing it, so will your clients be amazed by its simplicity. thanks to the one-page booking process, your site’s user experience will be of high standard. it also allows you to keep the customer from leaving your page early without finishing the booking process. simplicity is key to success. add all the extra and unnecessary clutter, and you might miss a ton of business opportunities. pinpoint booking system is great for both small and big business owners. the latter might use the pro version straight away. the main feature of pbs is woocommerce integration for the ultimate solution. this brings you all the extras that one of the biggest e-commerce tools supports. for example, you can benefit from the shopping cart and the big range of payment methods. however, these are just a couple of options that you can take advantage of. plus, there are many payable add-ons available in full flexibility for your web booking. like any other plugin for bookings and appointments you find on this list, pinpoint booking system is original in its own way. more info / download appointment hour booking appointment hour booking is a free wordpress booking plugin that offers to set up a start time and specific duration. with its visual configuration, you will never need to touch a single string of code to edit and adjust appointment hour booking according to your business needs. you can preset your working hours so the end user knows immediately at what times you are available to make an appointment. moreover, each calendar you add to your website can have multiple services, durations and pricing. appointment hour booking allows you to link booking form to different payment methods, like paypal, stripe, skrill and more. there are also multiple add-ons for integration with 3rd-party platforms and to set up extra features and functions. adding an appointment/booking system on an hourly basis to your website is easy as pie with appointment hour booking. more info / download booking package whether you would like your visitors to book a room or an event or make an appointment for a service, you better utilize the terrific booking package. this free wordpress booking plugin creates an entire system that you can add to your existing page and sort out bookings in full. it also ensures that your bookings and appointments are fully organized. skip the old-school approach and move over to digital appointment management once and for all. booking package unlocks a ton of options and features to make sure you get the most out of it effortlessly. along with the obvious, booking package also comes with a shortcode which you can insert into any page or post. additionally, you can accept unlimited bookings, confirm bookings quickly from the admin dashboard, send out notifications and set a different schedule and pricing for holidays. more info / download advanced booking calendar advanced booking calendar is ideal for hotels and other accommodation businesses. it is a convenient and easy to use free wordpress booking plugin with all the must-haves and loads of other goodies. you can now manage and maintain all your bookings hassle-free. if you were doing it manually up until now, the time has come to follow the trend and move online 100%. this way, all your potential customers can play around with the booking calendar and find the dates that suit them best from the comfort of their sofas. the web design of advanced booking calendar is 100% mobile-ready and cross-browser compatible. all the bookings you generate are stored in your wordpress’ database so you will never lose them. also, for each reservation, you get an email with more information, as well as an option to accept or reject bookings. on the other hand, guests will receive email notifications whether the booking is approved or declined. fine-tune your new booking calendar accordingly and boost your business through the roof. more info / download webba booking lite for service providers, webba booking lite is one of the best free wordpress booking plugins you can get your hands on. it will save you a ton of time and effort by taking over the bookings and appointments part of your business. with that in mind, you can keep refining your craft and marketing your business to reach new heights. it is a win-win situation for both parties. the owner needs to input very little work while the client has an option to comfortably pick the dates and time that fit him or her best. webba booking lite rocks over eighty customization options, well over seventy predesigned layouts, unlimited custom fields and the ability to add unlimited services. the final layout will also be mobile-friendly, smoothly adapting to any device they use. while the free version already has a ton of features, webba booking lite also comes with many more pro functions if you would like to upgrade. more info / download awebooking if you have an accommodation business of any kind—hotels, motels, hostels, etc.—and lack online booking, try awebooking. you can complete the setup process and have a workable reservation process available on your website. on the user’s end, he or she will be impressed by how easy it is to use. it is only a matter of clicking and picking the preferred time and date, and the booking request is ready. easy could be awebooking’s last name, heck, even first name. awebooking comes with room types and number of rooms, locations, pricing management, and room availability administration. it also works with bookings by request and provides availability widget. place it wherever you want on your page for visitors to quickly check the free dates. when the client finishes with their reservation, you, as the owner, will receive an email notification. also, before you take the plunge, you can check both the front- and the back-end demos and see how awebooking works in real time. if you are yet to launch a website for your hotel or a chain of hotels that you manage, do not miss our collection of hotel booking wordpress themes. more info / download appointment booking calendar appointment booking calendar does exactly what it says in the title. it is a free wordpress booking plugin that shows your available dates in a calendar and is linked to paypal as a payment method. use it for whatever business that requires appointments and bookings—transportation, personal coaching, health consultation, etc. with appointment booking calendar, you can not only show the calendar with free and booked dates but also set how many bookings you allow per specific time and date. when the user completes his or her booking, you will receive an email notification with all the information. you can choose more than one email where you would like to receive these notifications. moreover, the user also automatically gets a confirmation email after finishing the payment. with appointment booking calendar, you can show your working hours and exact times and the booking capacity of each time slot. the settings of the plugin allow you to show several months at once, and the user can book as many time slots as he or she wants. it comes with different date formats and an option to export appointments in the ical format for google calendar and outlook. more info / download booking calendar in just a few minutes, you can have your entire booking system arranged and organized to start taking new clients. the simplicity, yet great features, is what booking calendar is all about. it helps you create a clean and responsive calendar with all the needed options for a complete and fully working booking calendar. just like all the other free wordpress booking plugins on this list, bc also has its own gems. it gives you the ability to create unlimited booking calendars, forms, and all required extras. it works smoothly with all wordpress versions, and due to its responsiveness, mobile and tablet users will enjoy it, too. you can easily modify the price, date, and weekdays format, the availability and unavailability, and much more. further optimization allows you to set required fields, add multiple options, and change the currency. you can play around with colors and change the default text as well. booking calendar comes with an easy to understand admin section where it will be a breeze setting things up for your company. be as picky as you want, and booking calendar will most certainly take care of it. still, at any time you feel to upgrade, there is a pro version of the plugin awaiting you. more info / download booking ultra pro booking ultra pro comes ready for all kinds of businesses and organizations. you can use it for students attending your classes, or you can benefit from it if you are a barber. it can handle big numbers steadily, so there is no need to worry whether it will manage hundreds, if not thousands, of attendees to your seminar. booking ultra pro simply will. while there is a pro version available, many will be satisfied with the free plugin just as well. it comes with all the important characteristics and then some. to complete the booking, the client undergoes a simple four-step process. he or she picks the services and time, adds details, and chooses a method of payment. the last step is already the thank you page, which you can fully customize. technically, it only actually takes three steps. it’s a quick, simple, and efficient process that your new and existing customers will enjoy using again and again. for your information, the clients’ information is stored in the back-end, which you can later use for running promotions and sending newsletters directly. more info / download amelia offering to book online will definitely boost your business professionalism, as well as organization. thanks to amelia, you can now get the job done without breaking a single drop of sweat. regardless of the services that you offer, with amelia, you can tailor the online booking to your needs and wants precisely. in short, if you would like to keep bookings and appointments fully automated, now you can with the practical amelia. still, this is a free version of the tool that comes with a few limitations. however, it will surely do the trick, getting you going swiftly. amelia comes with a handy calendar view in the back-end, offering you to have total control over all the appointments and their statuses. to add a booking wizard to your website, you simply copy and paste amelia’s shortcode to your existing post or page or create a new one. more info / download wp booking system whether you run an accommodation business or you rent bikes and boats, let customers complete a booking online, using nothing but your website. with wp booking system, a free wordpress booking plugin, you can now do just that and take your business to new heights. no need for sticky notes and no need for picking up phones and reading emails, wp booking system does all the heavy work for you. even if you are not a tech-savvy person, wp booking system is still perfect for you, as it is super effortless to use. create a convenient calendar on your website that your customers can use to check availability and complete a booking. you can also create custom forms and use wp booking system with various languages. the plugin is compatible with gutenberg, too, works with a shortcode or widget. more info / download booking activities booking activities is a more niche free wordpress plugin that specializes in activities primarily. you have amazing customization functions to tailor the online booking form for any type of activity or several that you offer. thanks to the drag and drop technique, you do not need to touch a single string of code when performing tweaks and improvements. you can either copy and paste the shortcode to integrate it to your website or even use booking activities with woocommerce products. the customer then gets to pick the activity and desired date and books it. as simple as that. great availability options, notifications, woocommerce payments, entirely translatable and fully fluid and responsive design are just a few of the specialties that booking activities has in store for you. let enthusiasts book your activities via your website and completely automate the process, thanks to booking activities. more info / download appointment booking and online scheduling plugin this is a software that will expand your website with a scheduling system for you to have bookings organized and automated. no need for you to do it all by phone calls or emails anymore. let the appointment booking and online scheduling plugin do all the work for you. there is more it can do for you than just the scheduling part. the plugin also covers reminders, confirmations, and follow-ups. you can also set an option where a client can request a callback if necessary. one great benefit of having an online booking system on your website is that it works even when you are out of office. customers do not always have time to book within your working hours. they like checking and browsing in the evenings or super early in the morning. when you get back to the office, you can check all the appointments that were generated when you were away. with this plugin, you can reply to clients’ requests in real time and assign different clients to different staff members. there is even a mobile app available for both iphone and android users for the owner to have it all under control at all times. more info / download woocommerce easy booking if a plugin is woocommerce-compatible, you know it must be flexible and packed with features. additionally, it is also probably very simple and easy to use so that improving your page with a solid new feature is as simple as pie. roughly said, that is what you get with woocommerce easy booking. it is an appointment and scheduling plugin that perfectly integrates with the e-commerce toolkit. with the plugin, you can add an additional option to your woocommerce products for clients to book or rent them. this could mean just about anything since you can sell, rent, and offer memberships with woocommerce. this new section that the free wordpress booking plugin adds to your products allows you to set the start and end dates and calculates the new price. you can set custom pricing based on a daily, weekly, monthly, or even nightly basis. the plugin uses pickdate.js, which is a mobile-friendly date and time picker. however, to really get the most out of woocommerce easy booking, there are several add-ons available. of course, these do not come free of charge but sell at a certain fee. however, if you are satisfied with the free version, use it for as long as you want. more info / download salon booking system the salon booking system is perfectly suited for all types of salons, from hair dresser salons and barber shops to beauty shops and spa and massage salons. there will be no need to pick up new reservations during your work schedule. instead, you can focus on the work 100% and let your online booking and appointment system do its thing for you. all you need to do is to later check how busy you will be the next day and the days and weeks that follow. in the back-end, the administrator can quickly check the upcoming sessions and never miss a business opportunity. feeling disorganized? it is time to step up your game and focus on online bookings rather than receiving calls and checking tons of emails. specifically developed for one-on-one appointments, the salon booking system is a great feature that your website should not miss. you can connect it with google calendar and have all reservations synced. there is truly a lot you can do with this easy-to-use and free wordpress booking plugin. style the calendar according to your needs; offer clients to book as guests and even pay later. ready, set, and go! more info / download 10to8 online appointment booking in our collection of free wordpress booking plugins, we surely could not miss 10to8. it is a large online appointment scheduling software with many premium plans. starting with a free one is possible, too. it is limited to 100 appointments on a monthly basis. however, if your business is new or small, this might be just enough. 10to8 automates the process of booking and scheduling, and that is what you should be upgrading to if you aren’t yet. in the modern age, tools and software can do so much for you and your business. it takes a little time to set them up, and then they can run (almost) forever and ever. booking is one of the processes that you can let machines handle. you only receive notifications of new and upcoming reservations. organized? indeed! to activate 10to8, create a free account that gives you a 30-character code. paste this code on the special tag that you can use on any of your pages. you will get all the information on how to make things happen in the documentation. when all is set and ready, a pretty booking service will appear on your website. then, as the reservation system on your site does its thing, you can freely focus on your business’s growth. more info / download thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. bookingsfree pluginswordpress booking plugins share this share tweet pin it share rokr rok is a professional content creator and an enthusiastic marketer who spends most of his day behind the screen, drinking coffee and listening to black metal. but he never misses a daily workout to get the blood flow going. he goes by the quote, "only a fool worries over what he can't control." related posts 21 best free wordpress quiz plugins for 2020 need to run a quiz or survey on your website? these wordpress quiz plugins are… 10 best wordpress document management plugins plugins are essential to make your website user-friendly letting them navigate on your page smoothly.… 14 awesome drag-and-drop plugins for building wordpress pages how often have you felt the need to make improvements to your website? perhaps you… top 5 responsive wordpress google reviews plugins with the following wordpress google review plugins, you can show these comments on your site,… the best wordpress plugins to optimize images 2020 images are an integral part of most websites. no doubt, a striking image helps to… top 24 jquery plugins for social media sharing 2019 if you're not running a wordpress blog, then social sharing plugins might be out of… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: top 28 free wpbakery page builder (visual composer) addons & extensions for wordpress 2020 next post: 29 most popular premium and free social sharing plugins for wordpress 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×