skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 21 best cryptocurrency wordpress plugins, widgets & scripts 2020 21 best cryptocurrency wordpress plugins, widgets & scripts 2020 march 13, 2020 rokr plugins 1 comment if you are building a website for the coin market, then you most certainly need a selection of cryptocurrency wordpress plugins. maybe one is enough, but you might be in need of two or even three. while some cryptocurrency wordpress themes have loads of features and extensions, the others might need to undergo some additional improvements. we prepared a collection of the finest and most promising cryptocurrency plugins for wordpress and even versatile scripts. with the current crypto hype, an immense call for websites related to the industry occurred. not only is everyone talking about bitcoin and altcoins, many are expanding their businesses to accepting cryptocurrency payments, others are becoming traders while the third ones offer consulting. along with the themes and plugins, there are also plenty cryptocurrency website templates available to cover an even broader specter of users. in short, creating a website for the virtual currency industry is way easier than you think. with the tools that are at your hand, plugins, scripts, themes and templates, your business idea becomes a reality in little to no time. below, you will find cryptocurrency wordpress plugins for calculators, rates, visual composer widgets and more. there is even a plugin for bitcoin affiliate system, as well as one that expands woocommerce payments to cryptocurrencies. with hardly any work, you can have the ultimate crypto website all set to hit the online world. take to your advantage these amazing bitcoin and cryptocurrency plugins and make outstanding wordpress websites. coin table shall we begin with something that goes slightly against the grain the main topic? or better said, entirely? i bet no one will be mad since the product that we have here for you is a terrific one. coin table is a content management system that was exclusively built for the cryptocurrency real-time information. it supports over one thousand currencies and all their information with 24/7 automatic updates. you do not need to do anything manually, let coin table do the work for you. along with the cryptocurrencies, coin table also fully supports 156 other currencies, like dollar and euro. coin table comes with its own admin panel where you can manage all the settings and even create multiple admins/users. you get four customizable pages included in the package; home, table, currency and converter. did i mention already that coin table is not really a cryptocurrency wordpress plugin? more info / download demo premium cryptocurrency widgets for wordpress to enhance your wordpress websites, this set of premium cryptocurrency widgets will help you out tremendously. it gives you the opportunity to effortlessly add a broad range of widgets to your sites with cryptocurrency quotes. 1500 coins are supported, from the most popular ones to those less known. predominantly, all currencies are updated real-time, without the page refresh. moreover, all cryptocurrency prices can be transformed into fiat currencies for your users to better understand their value. meaning, let them know the value of ripple in dollars, euros, yens and rubles. all premium cryptocurrency widgets come with various templates and color options for you to find the ideal one to fit your branding. you can operate all widgets from the native wordpress administrator. more info / download demo coinpress coinpress is a cracking cryptocurrency wordpress plugin that creates over 3500 coin detail pages automatically and in real time. yes, through this simple to use add-on, you can gain a ton of information and material, offering your users to get the most out of their search. all the information about each coin is generated and updated without you doing any manual work. indeed, super convenient. coinpress also comes with an advanced table with features like search, currency selector, watchlist, drop-down menu to buy and sell, as well as an option to change the default order. you can also fully customize the information about each coin and even modify the default order and style of the layout. in brief, if you are interested in constructing a similar website to coinmarketcap, you can do it quickly and efficiently with the use of coinpress. more info / download demo massive cryptocurrency widgets when building a cryptocurrency website, you probably need a bunch of widgets to add to your site to level up the experience. you came to the right place. massive cryptocurrency widgets is a fantastic pack of tools that will skyrocket your website’s online appearance and make it come into view ten times more professional. in the massive cryptocurrency widgets bundle, you get tickers, tables, lists, charts, cards and labels widgets to name a few. of course, there is also a widget that lets your users convert different currencies and get instant price calculation. there is a ton of content that you get with one kit of widgets so make sure you look into it and consider spicing up your crypto website or blog with some fine features. and no, you do not really need to do any advanced coding tasks to add the widgets of choice to your page. more info / download demo tradex for all the traders out there who would like to create your own trading platform with wordpress, tradex is the cryptocurrency tool that will do the trick. instead of hiring a programmer and spending a hefty price tag to make it happen, with a simple item like tradex, anyone can create a professional cryptocurrency trading platform. and to see how the outcome can look, feel free to head over to the live preview page and see tradex in action. tradex supports over 55 altcoins with a straightforward feature of buying and selling. the entire process is fully automated, secure and the transactions executed instantly. tradex also automatically updates altcoin information and supports eight different payment methods. other features of the tool are live trade view, coin wallet statistics, unique user dashboard and deposit log to name a few. more info / download demo cryptocurrency search addon first and foremost, you have to be using a crypto plugin already to benefit from the striking cryptocurrency search addon. three of the plugins this tool is compatible with are: coin market cap & prices, cryptocurrency exchanges list pro and crypto ico list widget pro. from then on, if you would like to add a super sophisticated search box to your wordpress page, you can now make it happen with cryptocurrency search addon. with this cryptocurrency wordpress plugin, you can offer all your visitors and members to search over two thousand coins, more than two hundred crypto exchanges and additional four thousand icos. what cryptocurrency search addon does, it shows combined ajax based search results for, like mentioned in the previous sentence, crypto coins, icos and exchanges that base around your target keyword. more info / download demo cryptoniq if running an online store or pushing any type of products or services on your website is your business, now you can offer your customers to pay with cryptos. thanks to cryptoniq, a cryptocurrency wordpress plugin, the integration happens seamlessly. note, cryptoniq supports four of the most popular cryptocurrencies, like btc, eth, ltc and doge. what is also super cool about cryptoniq is the fact that there are no 3rd-party service providers between the user and the admin. the payments are processed instantly and go from the buyer straight to the owner. meaning, no withdrawal fees! to cut a long story short, cryptoniq uses decentralized payment method. in other words, all you need to do is to add your wallet address to plugin’s settings and you are pretty much ready to go. yes, it truly is as simple as it sounds. more info / download demo cryptocurrency exchanges list pro for everyone who would like to add an advanced cryptocurrency exchanges list to their website, we have a top-notch crypto wordpress plugin for you. hence the name, cryptocurrency exchanges list pro is the one tool that will do the work for you. with the ability to create over two hundred cryptocurrency exchanges and over 11,000 market pairs, you can easily put your web platforms on top. offer your users a fantastic experience and customize the list accordingly. with a ton of features that cryptocurrency exchanges list pro treats you to, you can start right away. needless to say, you will not really need to perform any hard coding tasks to make it work on your page. cryptocurrency exchanges list pro is beginner-friendly, ensuring everyone to get the most out of it. some of the features are exchange markets, coin price comparing, custom content and loads of smart shortcodes. more info / download demo crypto ico list widgets pro crypto ico list widgets pro is a cryptocurrency wordpress plugin with a huge ico database. with over three thousand ico information pages, you can create an online hub where virtual coin enthusiasts will enjoy spending their time at. since the tool is linked to coinexchangeprice.com, all the data is updated automatically without the need to perform any manual refreshing. the ico list displays active, upcoming and past details and also provides all the financial information. other goodies of crypto ico list widgets pro are yoast seo friendliness, twitter ico feed, add a custom ico and push featured icos. as for the latter, three options are available; featured, premium and sponsored ico. you can now have your own and customized ico database on your website, providing all the necessary stats and data to the end user. more info / download demo coinbase you can now add a new payment method to your woocommerce store with help from coinbase. indeed, it is accepting cryptocurrencies. there are literally two things that you need to do to make it happen. first, you need a coinbase commerce account and, second, you, obviously, need to install the coinbase plugin for woocommerce on your ecommerce page. how simple was that? all the payments are then handled through coinbase what protects both the owner of the website and the customer. coinbase supports five of the most well-known cryptocurrencies, bitcoin, bitcoin cash, litecoin and ethereum. display prices in cryptocurrencies and follow the trend. lastly, if you need any additional support, the team of experts is always at your service. comfortably add coinbase to your online store and make a difference. more info / download demo multi-currency crypto wallet multi-currency crypto wallet is a simple and powerful cryptocurrency wordpress plugin that adds a new layer of sophistication to your website. the tool supports all sorts of assets that one can add to his or her wallet with ease, from bitcoin to others. of course, it is the user who has complete control over their coins and other information. for this, they need to have their keys stored locally; otherwise, it will not work. you also get a widget with an exchange option that supports exchanging to and from bitcoin. for a wallet that does all the hard work for you, multi-currency crypto wallet is the one. there are also a bunch of examples of real clients who are using the tool (someone even raised $40 million with it! that’s how legit they are). more info / download demo crypto portfolio tracker crypto portfolio tracker is a cool wordpress plugin that offers all your users to create and track their cryptocurrency portfolio. of course, they can also share it with others and enjoy all the real-time statistics. this cryptocurrency wordpress plugin supports over three thousand coins. along with that, the user can create a portfolio in any fiat currency that he or she wants. also, each user has an option to create as many portfolios as he or she needs and even add an unlimited number of transactions. the options and possibilities truly are enormous. moreover, you can translate the plugin, too, and benefit from any of the eight built-in color skins. needless to say, crypto portfolio tracker is 100% responsive, flexible and cross-browser compatible, working on all modern devices and platforms flawlessly. more info / download demo coin market cap rankings coin market cap rankings is pretty self-explanatory. it is a cryptocurrency wordpress plugin with real-time information that will greatly benefit your site’s visitors. with a simple shortcode, you can add this tool to any wordpress page or post without breaking a sweat. that said, coin market cap rankings is very simple to use, perfect for someone who is installing a plugin for the first time or for advanced users. core features of coin market cap rankings are support for over four thousand coins, twenty color schemes, multi-currency, translatable, fast performing and an option to search for coins. the individual coin page shows a description, historical stats, different quotes and google trends. spice things up on your website with an all-inclusive coin market cap rankings now and make a difference, leveling the overall performance of your page up. more info / download demo ultimate crypto widgets with ultimate crypto widgets, you get a solid bundle of add-ons that you can add to your website and boost its presence to new heights. the tools that you get will help you create a very similar style of a website compared to the coinmarketcap.com. of course, with your added touch of creativity. the features and functions of ultimate crypto widgets are very many so keep on reading and get the hype going. over two thousand currencies and coins, live prices, responsive and retina-friendly layout, multi-language support and optimized for search engines, ultimate crypto widgets kit is a serious deal. enjoy adding box, table, spark charts, comparison, inline, calculator and leaderboards widgets to your page and then some. with little work and no programming involved, you can now hammer out a professional and sophisticated cryptocurrency website. more info / download demo coin market cap & prices coin market cap & prices is a cryptocurrency wordpress plugin which is pretty self-explanatory, don’t you think? it does the job when in need to creating a 100% automatized crypto coins price list website. coin market cap & prices shows live prices, percent-base price changes, historic data, 24h volume and, of course, marketcap. additionally, it also displays charts and other useful data. you can now push over 1,700 coins on your website without the need to do much work yourself. coin market cap & prices does things automatically to save you loads of time and energy. you can then sort cryptos by rankings, prices, volume and any other ranking factors that you find beneficial. last but not least, each coin also links to a single page which coin market cap & prices generates by default. you can specify which data to display and allow users to get exactly what they are looking for. more info / download demo fat coincap fat coincap is a nifty cryptocurrency wordpress plugin that helps you create a live shortcode which you can add anywhere on your website. for instance, display it in header or footer, in the sidebar, post or even custom locations, the choice is yours. with fat coincap, you get five different layouts to choose from: table, chart, leaderboard, ticker and box. fat coincap is also 100% cross-browser compatible and in tune with mobile devices. moreover, fat coincap supports more than 1,300 cryptocurrencies and 32 fiat currencies. other features are real-time updates, weekly charts, no api key, filterable results and compatibility with elementor and siteorigin page builders. set things up in the wordpress admin section, add the shortcodes where you would like add-ons to appear and you are ready to go. sometimes, the most complicated things turn out to be super newbie-friendly. more info / download demo cryptocurrency widgets pro creating a cryptocurrency website is way easier than you think. while you can utilize a dedicated wordpress theme, you can take things to an entirely new degree with the use of various cryptocurrency wordpress plugins. cryptocurrency widgets pro is a set of amenities that will get you going in little to no time. it comes with multiple widgets for displaying price ticker, market cap, live prices, real-time updates and loads more. cryptocurrency widgets pro supports over two thousand coins, from the most popular to the lesser known ones. through a shortcode or widget, you can showcase different coin information all across your website. you can also modify the layouts and brand them according to your needs. once you set things up, all that follows gets done automatically. take your online crypto project to new victories with cryptocurrency widgets pro. more info / download demo coincompare whoever plans to run a website similar to coinmarketcap.com or add an extension to your existing page, use coincompare cryptocurrency web app. for each coin, you can display a set of data, like last trade price, 24h absolute change, high/low, price in btc and market capitalization. of course, more information is available for you to add to your coin comparing spreasheet. coincompare plugin is mobile friendly, search engine optimized and supports google adsense for monetization. for each coin, you can create an individual page with more helpful information and data. moreover, the news ticker on the home page allows you to fetch and rotate news from any rss feed. the tool is also multi-language friendly and already translated into many languages which you can select from the admin panel. more info / download demo virtual coin widgets ten widgets are always at your service when picking up virtual coin widgets. besides, you are also treated to a practical builder with which you can create shortcodes in a snap and see them in action using the preview page. now you can showcase information about the crypto market on your own website for over one thousand cryptocurrencies. on top of that, all data is automatically updated every ten minutes. manual updates are a thing of the past. virtual coin widgets are change label, price card, table, converter and full card to name a few. 21 color presets are also part of the gem so you might find the right one out of the box. boosting your website with extra widgets and custom built shortcodes is easy with virtual coin widgets. more info / download demo cryptocurrency charts of course, there is a plugin for all of you who would like to add an interactive and entirely customizable cryptocurrency charts to your wordpress websites. now you can create and embed a custom version with cryptocurrency charts plugin. you can craft the exact chart you want straight from the wordpress admin dashboard. you can then add it to a page or blog post by copying and pasting the code into the section of choice let users further investigate the preferred coin with help from your amazing and super handy chart. cryptocurrency charts supports all the major coins and then some, like bitcoin, dash, waves and monero to name a few. the historical performance of all the coins can be compared against each other and displayed in any major fiat currency. more info / download demo virtual coin widgets for visual composer exclusive for visual composer builder are a set of virtual coin widgets. since the drag and drop page builder is already as simple to use as possible, now you can lift it up with widgets that cover the cryptocurrency market. you can share more than one thousand coins which all update automatically every ten minutes. make your website rich with crypto information and keep visitors up to date with what is going on in the industry. did bitcoin drop? or maybe ethereum went up 27%? but how much does ripple cost in dollars or euros? all this and more is what you can do with the amazing virtual coin widgets. get busy, pick your preferred color scheme, add the widgets that will do you good and rock the coin market. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. cryptocurrencywordpress plugins share this share tweet pin it share rokr rok is a professional content creator and an enthusiastic marketer who spends most of his day behind the screen, drinking coffee and listening to black metal. but he never misses a daily workout to get the blood flow going. he goes by the quote, "only a fool worries over what he can't control." related posts the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 a directory website is one where the names, addresses, contact and other details of like… top 28 free wpbakery page builder (visual composer) addons & extensions for wordpress 2020 wpbakery page builder was the first-ever wordpress plugin for building pages that support addons/plugins. wpbakery… 21 best free wordpress quiz plugins for 2020 need to run a quiz or survey on your website? these wordpress quiz plugins are… top 20 custom font plugins for wordpress 2020 in the early days of web design, there weren't many great choices for fonts. however,… the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress if your business depends on showcasing your abilities or your past work, then surely you… 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2019 the footer of any website is usually a very much neglected space. this is not… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 16 wordpress marketing plugins to help you earn more 2020 next post: top 17 wordpress plugins for monetizing a blog 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×