barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up life 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest etsy writer shares share tweet pin ***looking for a gift to blow your pup’s mind? spoil them with a barkbox! every month barkbox delivers 2 original toys, designed in-house, 2 full bags of all-natural treats, and a chew. our treats are made in the usa and canada, and our recipes never contain any wheat, soy, or corn. because we want #barkboxday to be incredible for pups and their parents, every box is wrapped in a fun surprise theme that changes monthly. sign up here and receive a free extra toy every month. <-- this deal is worth up to $120 in value if you sign up for a 12-month subscription! :) the unconditional love and joy that a canine companion can bring is endless – not to mention universally inspiring. and nowhere is that inspiration more apparent than on etsy; from pendants designed in romania to greeting cards dreamed up in hong kong, dog-inspired pieces take many forms in our worldwide marketplace. in honor of valentine’s day, we’ve rounded up some of the cutest and most unique items fit for the pup-obsessed pal (or pals) on your list. scroll on for more! 1. hand-knit miniature by tin tabernacle imagine the look on their face when they see a hand-knit, miniature version of their prized pup. they. will. love. it! 2. temporary tattoos by emily mcdowell looking for a small treat? how about an illustrated temporary tattoo that celebrates permanent puppy love. 3. custom pillows by shebbo design made-to-order pillows featuring your pal’s furry companion are cute and almost as cuddly as the real thing. 4. dog doodle mug by mary kilvert does your dog-loving friend drink a morning cup of coffee or tea? then this mug is just the thing. 5. dog breed tote bag by the pet studio an illustrated canvas tote is cute and functional (how else are you going to haul all those chew toys and frisbees to the park?). bonus: it comes in several versions – pick one to match their breed. 6. cufflinks by ialbert. canine cufflinks are a classy gift for the dressed-up dog lover on your list. 7. dog and owner bff necklaces by slashpile designs you know how they say dogs are man’s best friend? well, this sterling silver bff set seals the deal. 8. ceramic earrings by dorca ceramics and speaking of jewelry – these ceramic earrings, which are handmade in poland, come in different colors and breeds, so you can give them a pair that looks just like their pup. 9. custom treat cutter by name that cookie okay, let’s be real: the only gift more thoughtful than homemade doggie treats is homemade doggie treats made using a custom cookie cutter. 10. custom pet sketch by mrs. morgan made these pet sketches are digitally designed from photos; simply pull a few images from your pal’s instagram and place your order. don’t forget the frame! 11. pencil holder by jaukudesign for a hands-on alternative, encourage a creatively inclined puppy parent to attempt an original portrait of his own with some fancy new colored pencils housed in this birch carrier. 12. breed-specific wine stopper by shepherds grove filed under clever and cute: these decorative ceramic wine stoppers, which come in several breed-specific designs. 13. “my goal in life” shirt by rc tees here’s a simple-but-sweet gift: a screen-printed, soft cotton tee. be sure to add a note that says their dog isn’t the only one who thinks they rule. 14. plush keyring by edwyn uk here’s a good everyday gift: a keychain. here’s an even better everyday gift: a keychain by edwin uk, especially if it’s one that resembles their mutt’s mug. 15. “pups” zine by sarah mcneil this less-than-five-dollar mini zine is full of blue and burgundy risograph prints by melbourne-based artist sarah mcneil. art and doggies – does it get any better? 16. pug pouch by kara burke illustrates carrying business cards or subway fare is more fun with a pug pouch. 17. nail decals by jsutopia another small-but-awesome valentine: these nail decals, which feature teeny, tiny puppy faces. (squeal!) 18. tea towel by gingiber pair a screen-printed tea towel with some loose-leaf tea of their go-to variety and you’re sure to be their favorite valentine. 19. custom embroidery by hoopla stitch the artistry in this custom, hand-embroidered hoop will wow them, and forever commemorate their beloved companion. 20. toddler pug sweatshirt by supayana finally, in the event that your pup-obsessed pal is an adorable toddler, a shirt from supayana’s collection will bring a smile to her (and your) face. 21. gift tag and wrap by fire hydrant press no matter what gift you decide on, don’t forget to wrap it up in some paws-itively adorable wrapping paper! interested in more content like this? sniff this related post: 9 dog gifts for spoiled dogs who love their humans discover more gifts for pet lovers on etsy comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up etsy writer 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go