toggle navigation login 21-day fat loss challenge the ultimate program for women looking to lose weight fast -- learn how to lose 10-21 pounds in just 21-days! off original price! the coupon code you entered is expired or invalid, but the program is still available! "an emotional end to round 1 for me (i'm starting again on wednesday!!!) i haven't weighed myself since last monday because i was very stressy, discouraged, and struggling all week, so i was surprised to see my result... 21.4 lbs down in 21 days!!! i stood on the scale for a full two minutes and cried. then i went and tried on all my jeans (i've been living in sundresses all month) and nothing fit. 2.5 inches off my waist, 3 off my hips, 2 off each thigh, and about an inch off each arm. i'm still in shock! i don't even want to massively cheat all day tomorrow as i was planning to (although french fries and caramel frappuccino are both happening. lol) if i ever get to meet lauren and alex i'll hug them both to pieces! looking sooooo forward to round 2........ " - cynthia wilde, from the 21-day challenge support group meet alison b. from pass christian, mississippi! 60+ pounds lost! "i've dropped my triglycerides by 50 points, stopped my emotional eating, and regained my health and happiness." alison (above) lost 12.5 pounds in her first 21 days with the challenge, and she then went on to lose more than 60 pounds with the challenge! does any of the following resonate with you? 1. it feels like you've tried just about every diet on the planet. atkins, weight watchers, vegetarian, vegan, keto, paleo, low-carb... there are a million different diets out there and everyone says theirs is the best. but you feel like nothing has worked for you in the long-term. 2. you think there must be something wrong with your body. you've been trying to lose weight for so long, and maybe have even discussed it with doctors, and you just can't seem to figure out why you can't lose more than 5-10 pounds. and keep it off. 3. you just can't seem to stay motivated to stick with a diet. you start a new diet program... go to the grocery store and load up on all the healthy food... research some new recipes... you're super pumped about this new diet. fast forward two weeks... you eat something off-plan, you forget to workout once or twice, new weight loss plan blown... 4. the scale keeps creeping towards the 200-pound mark and you feel like you're in a downward spiral. or maybe you've already passed the 200-pound mark. either way, it becomes so much harder at this point. there is so much weight to lose that it almost feels like there is no point. 5. you just feel downright discouraged. finally, you feel like you're at the brink of giving up. but if you're reading this page right now, the good news is that you haven't given up yet. you're still here and you're still trying. and we're here to help you! if so, you're in the right place! corey c. from stow, ohio lost 14.8 pounds her first 21 days! "i have lost 45 pounds, and i'm not done yet, but i could not have done it without this program! you get support online and we cheer each other on about every single pound lost! alex and lauren are great. they'll support you 100%!" corey has now lost over 51 pounds with the challenge! "it has literally changed my life. i'm a 30-year old mom with two kids. listen... if i can do this, anybody can do this! just sign up!" you can and you will lose the weight. we guarantee it. 21 days from now, you will... lose 10-21 pounds lighter see a 2-3 drop in dress size feel your clothes fitting better lose 3-4 inches from your waistline see an improvement in your skin and hair quality feel fewer aches and pains in your joints and so much more! introducing the... 21-day fat loss challenge everything you need to lose the weight quickly and effectively... the 21-day fat loss challenge is diet program for women guaranteed to help you rapidly melt away pure body fat faster than you ever thought possible! "6 months to the day ♥️ 76.6 lb difference. thank you avocadu 😘 i began this amazing and challenging journey on october 16, 2017. since then i've lost 76.6 lbs, i've lost my excuses. i feel like i've gained my life back, my confidence, my strength and determination, and above all my happiness! i feel like a completely different person. i've fallen in love with the process, something i never dreamed of doing. i'm never looking back, and i can't wait to see what the next 6 months brings." - lexie marie elmore, from the 21-day challenge support group here's what you'll get with the program: the main guide the main guide of the 21-day fat loss challenge is more than just an introduction. this is a deeper look into all the science and research behind why we get fat and what exactly to do about it. you will learn: 10 biggest weight loss myths people still believe supplements and nutrition tricks to help you burn fat faster in-depth understanding of how to lose fat fast you will also learn how to increase your metabolism and get loads of clean energy while still shedding weight. a lot of this information will be completely new to you, but it's important you understand it! the diet plan get ready to discover dieting that doesn't feel like a "diet." instead of starving yourself of foods you love, you're about to learn how to cleanse the body and lose fat based on your own personal goals. you will learn... simple instructions on what to eat and when to eat it 3 easy to understand stages for faster results a no fluff plan and "no time wasted" weight loss approach the diet plan is broken up into 3 stages, including a detox stage, a maximum glycogen-processing stage, and a final stage to personalize the plan to your specific goals. the information in this guide alone has sold for $197+ as part of personal training programs! the motivation guide you don't even need to find the willpower to workout because we've already done it for you. from quick tips to "must know" motivation strategies, you'll be able to follow along as we describe multiple motivation methods we're willing to put our money on including... 7 habits of people who always stay fit how to avoid the things that erode motivation and willpower find and stay motivated to living a fit and healthy life! this guide is our guarantee...the very piece of your fitness puzzle that lets us make this entire program absolutely risk free. if we can't help you lose weight with everything that's included in this guide, the entire program won't cost you a single penny. at-home workout plan (completely optional) yep! you heard it right! these workouts are a not required part of the plan to get the guaranteed results. we believe that diet is far more important than exercise when trying to lose weight, so these workouts are totally optional. these are easy, fat-burning workouts that can be done from home in 30 minutes or less (workout cards included!). but wait... that's not all! if you order now, you will also get these limited-time bonuses... bonus #1 supplemental video lessons we've added an entire section of video lessons to go along with the challenge! in these videos, we dive a little more in depth into the concepts outlined in the challenge and how to set yourself up for success. there are 6 different modules with 18 videos, and we have also included an extra bonus module on using supplements for weight loss! private community support group this is the real secret to success with this program! we have over 3,000 women in our private support group supporting each other and helping each other along the way! every day, challengers share their meals and recipes, motivation and encouragement, weight loss progress, and so much more! this group is free with the purchase of the challenge! it is included in the one-time price! bonus #3 21-day challenge recipe ebook this recipe ebook has over 40 recipes and will give you meal ideas and instructions for every stage of the program! it also contains some customer-approved recipes that came straight from our challengers in our private community group! it also includes a section on planning and motivation, so you can learn how to plan for success in the kitchen and beyond! e-z 21-day printable checklist do you like step-by-step instructions? we've got you! this checklist takes all of the day-to-day guesswork out of typical dieting programs. you can print it off, post it where you see it, and make sure you know exactly what to do every day! our current challengers love this checklist! it really is one of the most useful tools in your 21-day challenge arsenal. we've made this thing as easy as possible for you! off original price! the coupon code you entered is expired or invalid, but the program is still available! get started now! paid course coupon discount $47 start your 21-day challenge today! meet selene from minnesota! she has lost a total of 36 pounds with the 21-day fat loss challenge! her biggest 3 takeaways: "the list of approved foods makes things super easy! -- fasting is your friend! -- the private community group is super supportive!" "i finished!!! round 1 complete! h o l y c o w !! i can’t describe the feeling of pride from actually finishing the entire round! it has been more of a mental challenge than anything, and for that i am extremely grateful! it’s crazy the lies you tell yourself, and it’s even more amazing when you can mentally take control back, over those lies! please don’t get me wrong, i feel amazing!!! and i am extremely happy for my 16lb loss. i am so happy for that!! but, i am proud of what i have accomplished mentally and emotionally with this challenge! results come over time, not over night...and i still have lots of work to do, but this was just r1! i can’t wait to see what more i accomplish... obviously i still have a journey in front of me, and i’m okay with that...i’m just happy i finally started!" - sarah lopeman, from the 21-day challenge support group meet pilar! she lost 15 lbs in her first 21 days of the challenge! and she has now lost over 43 pounds with the challenge! meet the fat loss experts behind the 21-day challenge: alex nerney and lauren mcmanus are the co-founders of avocadu.com and this challenge! lauren is a former vegan and alex nerney is a certified personal trainer and nutrition specialist with the following certifications: nesta, cscs, cooper certified, and issa. he has 20,000+ hours working one-on-one with clients both online and offline. we believe that being healthy starts from the inside out, beginning with the foods that we put into our body. this is the basis of the strategies that we teach at avocadu. meet lissa! she has lost over 60 pounds in 6 months with our program! and megan, who is now working on her fifth round of the challenge to reach her goal weight! our 21-day challenge community support group now has over 4,000 members in it! the women in our support group share motivation, recipes, tips and tricks for succeeding with the challenge and so much more! every day, they are encouraging and empowering each other! here are some clips from our support group... lose the fat or your money back! we're incredibly confident that the 21-day weight loss challenge will melt away 10-21 pounds of pure fat (the kind you can measure on a scale) in just 21 days that we're ready to take all the risk and guarantee your results. get results or don't pay a dime!!! if you finish the challenge and are unsatisfied for any reason, just send an email to [email protected], and we will send you your money right back! all we ask is for proof that you tried the challenge via photos of yourself, photos of 21-day challenge approved meals, or interaction via our free community group during your challenge. all refunds are subject to the refund policy linked on the bottom of this page. frequently asked questions what is the 21-day fat loss challenge? it's a diet program designed to help you lose 10-21 pounds in 21 days. got more weight to lose? no problem! the challenge was designed in a way that it can be repeated in multiple rounds if you have more weight to lose! we have had many clients successfully complete 5-8 rounds and more! is it a one-time fee? are there any hidden fees? yep! it's just an easy, one-time purchase of $47 for the entire program. there are zero hidden fees! do as many rounds as you'd like with no additional charges! the one-time purchase price of $47 gets you access to the entire program as well as any future updates that we make or bonuses that we release! is there a guarantee? absolutely! if you finish the challenge and didn't get the results that we have guaranteed (10-21 lbs during the 21 days), you can email us for a full refund. all we ask to complete the refund is that you show us that you tried the challenge via photos of yourself or your meals or participation in our private support group for the challenge. this is to both ensure that you give the diet your best and to protect our digital content. all refunds and guarantees are also subject to the terms of our refund policy linked at the bottom of this page. what type of foods does this diet consist of? this diet is a whole foods based diet, consisting of lean protein, low-carbohydrate vegetables, and a few complex carbohydrates. it is a gluten-free, dairy-free, sugar-free, and nut-free diet. is there a meal plan? what does it consist of? yes! there is a list of approved foods as well as a meal plan. while the meal plan will tell you what type of food to eat and how much to eat every day that you are on the challenge, it does not include an outline of specific recipes to eat every day. it will be up to you to put your meals together, although tons of recipes are shared daily in our private support group! we have structured it this way so that you learn how to put together healthy meals yourself, which is what helps you make better decisions and keep the weight off in the future! the approved foods include lean protein, low-carbohydrate vegetables, and a few complex carbohydrates. it is a gluten-free, dairy-free, sugar-free, and nut-free diet. is there a meal plan? what does it consist of? yes! there is a list of approved foods as well as a meal plan. while the meal plan will tell you what type of food to eat and how much to eat every day that you are on the challenge, it does not include an outline of specific recipes to eat every day. it will be up to you to put your meals together, although tons of recipes are shared daily in our private support group! we have structured it this way so that you learn how to put together healthy meals yourself, which is what helps you make better decisions and keep the weight off in the future! the approved foods include lean protein, low-carbohydrate vegetables, and a few complex carbohydrates. it is a gluten-free, dairy-free, sugar-free, and nut-free diet. what type of people is the challenge designed for? all walks of life can do this program, but we made this program specifically for women and mothers ages 25-54 in mind. that being said, we have people of all ages doing the program and also some men who get great results on the program (their wives dragged them into it). do i have to exercise? what if i am unable to exercise? you do not have to exercise to get the guaranteed 10-21 pounds in 21 days. if you are unable to exercise, you will still lose the weight (although, it does help). if you do decide to try the workouts, rest assured that we will walk you through every exercise, step-by-step. everyone from a complete newbie to someone with intermediate experience could pick up this program, start out, and get fast results! do i have to buy shakes, organic food, or any other hidden supplements? nope! we do have a couple of recommendations for those that want supplements, but nothing is required beyond the whole foods that are approved in the program! can i do this diet as a vegan or vegetarian? this diet is a very high-protein diet, and is not suited for vegans. if you are a vegetarian, you will have the following sources to choose from: tofu, greek yogurt, plant-based protein powder, and eggs (if you eat them). the required protein is up to 100 grams/day, so you will need to eat at least 2-3 of the sources listed above to make this plan work for you. beans are considered a carbohydrate for purposes of this diet plan, and nuts and seeds are not approved. will this diet work for me if i have a thyroid problem (hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, etc.)? yes, absolutely! this program is great for those experiencing thyroid problems such as hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism. the diet avoids all sugar, refined carbohydrates, and processed foods. there are also no other commonly known inflammatory foods such as dairy or gluten on this plan. it is a whole foods based diet of lean meats, low-carb vegetables, and a few complex carbohydrates. we have even had clients that have had a reduction in their hypothyroidism meds while on this program! does this diet work for women with pcos? insulin resistance is often the biggest problem that women with pcos face. the challenge starts out with a detox from carbohydrates, which greatly helps combat insulin resistance. the lean protein, high-fiber vegetables, and anti-inflammatory foods in this diet make it a great option for those experiencing pcos. we have many clients with pcos that have had great results from our program. can i do this challenge if i am nursing or breastfeeding? yes, absolutely! we have worked with our clients that were nursing on the challenge to come up with a few modifications to the diet that will make it work better for you if you are nursing or breastfeeding. there is a separate section just for you in the challenge with some minor modifications to make sure that you get the best results possible with no side effects or harm to your little one! what if i have diabetes or pre-diabetes? if you are pre-diabetic, this plan will absolutely work for you! we have many clients that are no longer pre-diabetic after eating on our plan for a few months. if you have type i or type ii diabetes, this plan is probably not ideal for you. it starts out with a week-long detox from carbohydrates and is not ideal for those that need to pay close attention to their blood sugar. you should always consult a doctor before beginning any new diet plan. won't the weight come back? you shouldn't experience any rebound weight from this plan as long as you continue eating a healthy diet beyond the challenge. if you ever gain any weight back (vacation, travel, weddings... we get it!), you can simply restart the challenge at any point in time to knock the weight back off! can men do this program? absolutely! we design most of our content to reach women because they make up the vast majority of our audience. but we have had tons of husbands and boyfriends do the challenge with their better half. the crazy thing is... they usually lose a little more weight than their female counterparts as well! this challenge totally works for men as well, and it's a great thing for couples to do together for additional motivation and support! is my credit card secure? credit card security is extremely important to us. that's why we've partnered with stripe to handle the billing and provide a secure socket layer, 128 bit encryption. frankly, your credit card data is much safer making an online purchase through our secure site than it is using it to pay for gas or buy food at a restaurant. so feel comfortable knowing that your transaction is 100% completely protected from fraud. meet shawna! she lost 12.6 lbs in her first 21 days of the challenge! and she has now lost over 28 pounds with the challenge! "good morning all. we woke up this morning to day 22! we are done with our 1st round of this challenge, and really see the results! i am down 12-1/2 pounds and my husband is down 14-1/2. but so much better than the weight loss, is the fact that we feel great!!! changing our eating habits has made such a difference in how we feel. i have not had the aches and pains that i was so used to. i haven't had a headache in 3 weeks. no upset stomach or heartburn either. we both have more energy and want to spend time walking and talking together every day. we have a common goal that we are working toward, and that is a healthier lifestyle. this challenge has helped us to see that a healthier diet can and will make us feel better, live longer, and be happier. working on it together has really helped my motivation, ( i am not sure how much he appreciates that though,). but since he is willing to do this challenge again, i think he is also pretty happy with our results. now for a free day, and to get back to it. we are on to round 2..." - diane lowry, from the 21-day challenge private support group off original price! the coupon code you entered is expired or invalid, but the program is still available! get started now! paid course coupon discount $47 start your 21-day challenge today! © avocadu 2020 terms of use privacy policy refund policy disclaimer