skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 22 best interior design wordpress themes that will boost your creativity 2020 22 best interior design wordpress themes that will boost your creativity 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars theme collections 5 comments how nice it is to live in a cozy, professionally decorated and elegantly furnished apartment. we all know how important an interior design can be, and how it influences our everyday life. but at the same time, we shouldn’t forget the importance of our website design as well. this carefully picked compilation of interior design wordpress themes serves exactly such purpose. it shows you possible variants of the future appearance of your website, providing professionally made interior templates for any taste and preference. a website not only helps your clients to find you but more importantly represents your company on the internet. when you look at these interior templates more carefully, you’ll notice some very useful features that will make any user experience much better. most of all, the interior templates are responsive, which means that they look great no matter what device you choose. every element now on its own place and of its own size. what’s more, every element of the page now can be easily adjusted and customized to your own taste. you can experiment with font types and sizes, background images, headings, color-schemes and many more. create your unique interior template to stand out among others. best interior design wordpress themes and if you want to improve the searching results of your website, and increase its ranking positions, there’s also a fine additional feature – the interior design templates are coded in accordance with seo principles, so it would be much easier for your potential clients to find you on the web. these themes would be a great choice for any furniture and interior design company that cares about its product quality and aesthetic appeal. so, without further ado, i would like to present to you this hand-picked compilation of interior design wordpress themes. divi are you searching for the most ideal interior design wordpress theme? if that is the case, here is divi. with its mind-bending collection of eight hundred designs and more than one hundred website demos, you know you will find the right look for your project idea easily. additionally, every layout and every section of divi is also 100% customizable, without the need to perform any coding. you all do it with the advanced, yet user-friendly, visual editor. if you would like to create a fully customized web space for your interior design business, divi is probably the best option to go with. regardless of your past experience, you can start with divi confidently. it is a comfortable website canvas with all the material that you require. you will soon find out that divi misses nothing. in fact, it over-delivers, ensuring you to get the most out of it without the need to implement other tools and components. even if you would like to sell products, start a blog or introducing marketing, with divi, you have unlimited options. more info / download demo webify webify is a fantastic interior design wordpress theme for taking your business to the next level. if you are still missing a website, you better create one this very moment. and yes, i literally mean it – this very moment. once you see how much contents you have available after unboxing the webify package, your confidence will go through the roof. especially if you are a beginner or even building your very first page, with webify, you can do one now. just mix and match the available – with zero coding involved – and have a final product ready to go in no time. the layout of webify is also responsive, cross-browser compatible and fast loading. it as well treats you to all sorts of additional elements, like headers, footers, shortcodes, special blocks, internal pages and more. the outcome will be a smooth operating website that will inspire everyone. more info / download demo megatron megatron is a multi-purpose wordpress theme with specialized demos. this theme can be the perfect choice for your interior design. it is high-resolution retina ready ideal for picture posting. it also features lots of widgets. megatron has amazing unlimited portfolio pages with ajax portfolio and masonry. additionally, layouts are highly customizable, with many sidebar and colors. page itself can be either boxed or wide/stretched. megatron uses the popular background parallax effect for both images and videos. you can have lots of fun with its icons and typography as it uses google fonts and font awesome. megatron will give you more than 13 relevant tags to improve the searching experience. while if having doubts, you get amazing customer support. it uses drag & drop tools like visual composer and slider revolution as well as psd files. use wpml and rtl for translations. megatron is woocommerce ready and has a customizable xmenu. also, you will be able to use a very simplified admin panel with custom shortcodes for all your needed areas. the theme also features redux framework for a bug fix. megaton creative intends to be the number 1 choice for creative portfolios of interior design with its all it premium features. try to update your business with the touch of megatron! more info / download demo jevelin jevelin is a clean and responsive wordpress premium multipurpose website theme. this theme is a powerful platform for building pristine, custom interior design websites in a heartbeat. users from all backgrounds and experience levels love jevelin. it’s an intuitive streamlined website builder. with a range of fresh and creative templates, gettings things started is easy. rearrange your layouts with creative options and flexible admin settings. customize your every page with 40 custom widgets and plentiful widgetized areas. add features and resources to your sidebars, footers, sections and more. automated adjusted megamenus keep a structured hierarchy. advanced pagination capabilities let you present your content in creative styles. maximize your ad revenue with multiple page options for your blog posts. custom post styles let you handle all kinds of media and content, with many style settings to fiddle with. tons of portfolio layouts and combinations showcase your finest works and featured content. attract your audience’s gaze where you want it go with smooth sliders. seamless parallax background sections and video background sections liven up your website. jevelin’s sleek bootstrap framework lets you appeal to users across all devices. broaden your reach and maximize your revenue with jevelin today. finally, give your project the jevelin treatment! more info / download demo inteco if you are looking for an interior design wordpress theme, you should most certainly look into inteco. it is an exclusive tool for architects and designers who are willing to push their boundaries and start seeing an epic difference for themselves. now you can and, in fact, it just happens that it is ridiculously quick and straightforward to achieve all your wants. with the available six home page samples and multiple inner pages, you can swiftly decide how your web design will look like. on top of that, you can also improve and modify the out of the box style by employing the fantastic drag and drop page builder. inteco is packed with features, like auto updates, unlimited sidebar variations, custom color schemes, floating navigation and custom fonts. of course, inteco is also 100% mobile-ready, search engine optimized, compatible with retina screens and well matched with modern web browsers. showcase your creations for the entire world to enjoy. more info / download demo scape scape is a stunning, feature-rich and adaptive interior design wordpress theme. to cut a long story short, it is a tool that will get your project on feet in a snap. first and foremost, scape is for everyone. with the integration of wpbakery drag and drop page builder, anyone can craft a page of their dream. for interior designers and agencies particularly, scape comes with a demo very appealing to the eye. if you would like to create a strong and memorable first impression, then this is it! but a pretty design is just the beginning of scape. there are a horde more amenities and treats that scape has available and ready to use for your convenience. all these special effects and animations, widgets, shortcodes, predefined layouts, you name it, you will find it all and more in the scape bundle. more info / download demo ekko ekko is an interior design wordpress theme with cleanness and sophistication being its two core characteristics. feel free to go after examining the live preview page in great detail right away and prepare to be hooked instantaneously. ekko is absolutely amazing, easy to use and full of spectacular predefined layouts and elements. without the need to do any of the programming work, you can now have a completely functional website up and running swiftly. along with the ready-to-use demo, you can always make custom improvements and edits, ensuring ekko to follow all your branding regulations and wants. still, the theme is already very adaptive and flexible out of the box, catering to different tastes with ease. get your name out there, promote yourself like a pro from the start and enter the industry with a bang. more info / download demo arcdeco once you gain complete access to arcdeco, nothing can stop you. you have the power to create a striking and impactful interior design website that will trigger everyone’s curiosity. with the minimal and bold appearance, arcdeco makes sure to display all your content beautifully. whether they come from a mobile or a desktop device, the experience of browsing your website will always be a memorable one. you can choose between three different home designs, as well as dark and light modes. just with the predefined content alone, you will find all the necessary to enjoy yourself a quick-start of a banging new website. also, when performing customization tweaks, you do not need to touch a single string of code. arcdeco is for everyone, beginners and experts. this wordpress theme is a refreshing alternative that you should give a peek immediately. after that, there is no turning back. take arcdeco to your total advantage and shine online with your interior design business. more info / download demo argu argu is an absolutely fabulous interior design wordpress theme that particularly specializes in everything kitchens-related. the web design of argu is clean, modern and very appealing to the eye. if you would like to create a strong and memorable impression on your potential clients, argu will surely do the trick. have in mind, you can efficiently utilize argu out of the box, as it already comes as a full-blown website. moreover, you can also step things up and customize the default look according to your branding regulations. thanks to wpbakery drag and drop page builder, you do not need to write a single string of code to perform improvements and tweaks. other goodies of argu include one-page design, 360-degree view, before/after slider, revolution slider, parallax effect and many more in between. the layout of argu is also fluid and responsive, fast loading and compatible with modern web browsers. boost your kitchen-first business to new heights with argu today. more info / download demo robin robin is a wordpress theme specially designed for the niche of furniture sales. also, it is the perfect solution to create furniture, interior or an architecture site. you will get a theme with a top-notch design, created by experienced professionals. robin has a clean and modern style that is a perfect match with most of the top furniture brands. also, some pre-design elements and an awesome page builder are included. additionally, 9 stunning home pages, 2 shop archives and 5 products categories come will make you get creative! you will get a theme that is easy to custom and use; no coding skills are required. robin will let you provide costumers an excellent online shopping experience. also, it comes with an elegant compare buying, quick view mode and more thanks to woocommerce. ajax live search plugin will be handy for clients to view search results without re-load. additionally, this theme has a layout focused on user usability. robin comes with premium compatibilities like visual composer and slider revolution. it also supports wpml translation and contact form7 plugin. you will receive a responsive theme with detailed documentation and outstanding customer support. if you want to make a big impression and get your business on the spolight try it now. try robin! more info / download demo addison addison is an interior design wordpress theme. it is mainly focused on decoration and adjustments of internal spaces. it also handles landscaping and external building arranging. everything related to making spaces walked by people awesome, it handles it. addison is 100% responsive, retina ready with easy adaptability to screens and devices. it offers tons of panel customizations and page transitions to admire. you will get as a special addition, a quote calculator to make forms and payments easier. set up online businesses with full functional shops and product lists with woocommerce. addison uses bold page builder and tailored shortcodes. it also uses amazing icons and fonts provided by font awesome, bold icons pack and google fonts. texts are translatable with wpml compatibility. page design format can be managed boxed or full-with! addison has more than 4 different portfolio pages and a blog too. headers, menus and layout style pages are versatile and free to change. you will even find a child theme at your total disposal! addison it is a theme made for multiple uses and crafted with special artistic trades. addison suits anyone with a small or large business that likes aesthetic arrangements. even party planners or architects can benefit from its awesome style! try addison! more info / download demo bridge interior designers, you are in for a sweet web design treat. no need to build a page from scratch anymore when you have the incredible bridge interior design wordpress theme at your fingertips. with this giant amongst themes, you can go about establishing a striking web space that will help you entice potential new clients and score you more gigs. you can now advertise your works in an original way so no one will be able to hold back. pick the right demo, import it with one click and you can start the customization process already. with bridge, you will have your interior design or architecture page up and running in little to no time. bridge is also fully mobile- and retina-ready, as well as compatible with major web browsers. more info / download demo intoria intoria is a first-class architecture and interior design wordpress theme that calls for a quick website fix. with the included four homes and multiple inner page layouts, you can now start online in a little breeze. and if you fancy the out of the box appearance, you do not really need to do much work other than enriching it with your details and custom content. but customizing the default look to the very last detail is possible, too. intoria includes the elementor page builder, so you all win. along with page layouts, intoria also comes with many practical and rewarding features. slider revolution, header layouts, parallax effects, custom backgrounds, css3 effects and testimonials are some that you need to be aware of right from the get-go. now do your thing and take your business to new successes with the use of intoria. more info / download demo habikon architects and interior designers can benefit from habikon greatly. it is a solution that will help you get your business online in little to no time. nowadays, you do not need to be a coder nor a designer to be able to craft the desired website. with the right tools, you can have a page live, attracting new clients sooner rather than later. that’s right, habikon will never ask you for coding knowledge, thus you do not need to hire a professional to get the job done for you. you do it yourself! with the one click demo data wizard, you can start the journey immediately. moreover, thanks to the king composer pro builder, you can perform customization tweaks quickly and effortlessly. like that would not be enough already, habikon is also fast loading, seo-ready, compatible with mobile devices and in tune with web browsers. more info / download demo diaco with a superb interior design wordpress theme like diaco, you can expect a swift realization of a striking online presence. keep in mind, the tool rocks it all, from the tech aspects to the beautiful design, it is all in the diaco kit. in addition to that, you can also utilize the drag and drop builder and fine-tune the predefined layouts according to your taste. but first, investigate the six ready-made demos in great detail and go from there. who knows, you might find using one exactly as is and save yourself even more time. diaco’s other amenities include slider revolution, blog pages, bootstrap base, social links, widget-rich footer and parallax effects, to name a few. every diaco user also gains access to friendly support and comprehensive documentation. to sum up, building a website with diaco will be fun and exciting. more info / download demo kitgreen kitgreen is a niche interior design wordpress theme that specializes in kitchens. however, you can use the tool for all sorts of different intentions, so there is no way for you to feel limited in any way. in fact, it is your imagination that is the only limitation. other than that, kitgreen is one spectacular theme that will boost your online appearance and push your business above and beyond. bear in mind, kitgreen calls for very little work on your end to have a final web design ready to shine on the web. out of the box, kitgreen comes with six phenomenal samples, 25 shortcodes and all the needed inner pages to save you as much time as possible. nope, there is no need to build anything from scratch, it is all there carefully packed in the kitgreen kit. other features and assets of kitgreen are booking appointment and booking form pop-up, before and after pictures function, multiple headers and mega menu. you will find even more traits that will be of tremendous help for a successful launch of a cracking website. more info / download demo etalon etalon is a multitalented wordpress theme ideal for creative entrepreneurs. it has powerful customization options and tons of niche demos. you will get it with flexibility to create the website you want. etalon also features stunning visuals like parallax backgrounds for any page and slider revolution. each demo has more than 10 inner pages. more than 30 elements are also provided. in addition, etalon is the right fit for businesses like interior design or artistic people. it gives you custom services pages, portfolio, and blogs! they save you tons of working-time on your site content. etalon offers photo galleries and carousels and pricing table to display your products. this is definitely something worth acquiring. etalon is woocommerce integrated, making it a tool ready to make business. you will get gives you for free, visual composer and iconsmind icons set. additionally, these special trades save time, give beauty and offer customization without coding. also, etalon is 100% responsive and even mobile optimized. it is compatible with mobile devices like iphone and ipad and all browsers. also, with one-click you can replicate de demo you chose: simple and fast! questions of any kind, feel free to ask to custom support. look for yourself for this trendy tool! get simple, get gorgeous, get etalon! more info / download demo oshine oshine is a beautiful, elegant and responsive wordpress theme. inspite of a being a multi-purpose theme, it has demos tailor-made for interior designers and architects. with its wide array of portfolio and gallery options, oshine is a great choice for showcasing your portfolio in style. regardless of experience, oshine lets you design like the pros with the tatsu builder. this top-notch visual page builder also packs over 50 styling modules for you to fiddle with. mix and match dozens of prebuilt websites and pages to suit your needs. conceptual sections also make your website a unique, memorable experience. moreover, ample portfolio selection makes showcasing your works a task oshine excels at. interior designers, decorators and stylists love oshine. furthermore, its flexible, clean environment is a perfect canvas to portray their refined tastes. deep and powerful customization options allow them to be in charge of the look and feel of their project.if you want to craft a fascinating end-user experience, do give this theme a try. more info / download demo halena halena is a minimal, sleek and responsive wordpress ecommerce website theme. it’s a detail-oriented theme designed to professional, exacting standards. additionally, its pre-built layouts provide a simple framework for crafting classy modern store websites. also, each homepage is ideal for different businesses or industries, yet flexible and adaptable. interior design agencies love working with halena. elegant and polished, it offers unparalleled resourcefulness. halena also includes amazing, nifty commercial features. a gorgeous custom product quick view showcases your every item. powerful ajax searches let your customers find what they need without hassle. awesome ajax filters shape their results in myriad custom categories, live. offer the same functionality as the largest names in online retail and rival the big players. showcase your finest interior designs in an unobtrusive, minimal presentation, and dazzle audiences. finally, take your interior design business to the next level with halena! more info / download demo coca looking forward to showing your clients the best portfolio ever? then get coca, a refreshing theme that never disappoints. this interior design wordpress theme perfectly clicks to any home-related field, like furniture selling, architectural services and more. additionally, it is fully responsive, instantly adjusting to any device, and easy to customize. acknowledging the rise in demand for personal designers that brighten every home, this theme promises reliable service through mobile access, attracting new and old homeowners alike. the industry is competitive, so you need a theme that stands out and keeps up with the latest design trends. thankfully, coca exactly does that. utilize its eighteen stunning home page looks, six project styles and other internal sections that will kick-start your project. coca comes with many powerful page options, supports videos, strategically implements call-to-action buttons and includes google maps. create a masterpiece with coca. more info / download demo tur putting your trust into a well-organized theme is a must. this enables you to release your creative genius in designing a quality website even if you do not have any aptitude for doing so. this is what tur promises. this interior design wordpress theme is ideal for companies and agencies that capitalize on design. therefore, expect its templates and all the other components tur offers to be first-class. tur is built with modern technologies like events calendar pro and visual composer, fully customizable, mobile ready and compatible with modern web browsers. also, tur has many features to play around with, so all you need to do is plan and select a design, input content and boom! the theme will do the magic for you. let your interior design website push your online portfolio and service to new heights. more info / download demo architecturer guarantee a successful client hunting with architecturer, one of the leading interior design wordpress themes of our time. this theme also works smoothly for architectural and landscaping projects. additionally, it has a state-of-the-art and detail-oriented design, responsive layout and special features like typography, social sharing, mega menu and more. architecturer is based on the latest technologies which assure crisp and high-resolution look that performs at the highest degree. architecturer offers tons of gallery pages, blog layouts, colors, headers, background effects and index page looks. there are also multiple predesigned slider layouts that will help you create a strong first impression an all your potential clients. more is still to come in the future, so watch out and have a spectacular and refreshing page up and running at all times. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. architectsflat designinterior designreal estate share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts top 35 yoga wordpress themes for yoga studios and fitness clubs 2020 here you will find all the best yoga wordpress themes to make yoga studio website… top financial wordpress themes for your online business to thrive not every business theme is appropriate for a financial website as there are some specialties about premium financial wordpress themes. 33 best wordpress themes & templates using slider revolution 2020 looking for a slider revolution themes for wordpress? here you will find all the best… 20 most popular wordpress themes of 2020 to redefine your website today the following list of the most popular wordpress themes has a lot you to offer. 20 most stunning full-screen wordpress themes in this collection, we have gathered the most stunning full-screen wordpress themes that would help… top green vegetarian wordpress themes while the health-related benefits of a diet rich in fruits and vegetable are undeniable to… this post has 5 comments hafis says: at awesome collection, aigars. i have purchased deco. 🙂 reply plusch living says: at a collection of design themes is so nice for home interior and also for the kitchen. these have perfect color combinations and layout of designs. thanks for sharing . reply sureseal windows says: at superb collection of themes. thanks for sharing 🙂 reply viren says: at awesome man, i ‘ll be thinking of changing my website design. i like 3-4 theme that i will finalize one reply emily says: at amazing collections of theme. guyz you share very informative post. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: awesome responsive wordpress themes for architects, landscape architects and architectural firms 2020 next post: 60 best business wordpress themes of 2020 for startups and medium-sized companies we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×