skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 22 fantastic wordpress booking plugins 2020 22 fantastic wordpress booking plugins 2020 march 26, 2020 rokr plugins 2 comments you might be owning a chain of hotels, or you are a coach, with any of the top paid wordpress booking plugins, you can save yourself a lot of time and work. plus, be very eco-friendly, avoiding all the paper stuff. no need to browse the web anymore if you would like to introduce your very own booking or appointment system on your website. notice: for new business owners and professional individuals, do yourself a favor and look into wordpress business themes with integrated booking forms. in short, they offer you an all-in-one solution for your ultimate online appearance. by offering to book straight from your website, clients can quickly check when you or your services are available. they can schedule the right date without the need to calling you in advance. let’s face it, giving a call is not that trendy anymore. plus, it may take longer compared to picking and clicking on the right dates and hitting the book now button. we are all in a hurry lately. with a powerful booking plugin for your wordpress business site, you will also have everything in order. if you were using your precious notebook so far, have you considered modernizing your business? you will save even more paper and never forget about your next appointment. get notifications via email and always be fully prepared. say no to chaos. in case you would just like to test the waters, there are a whole bunch of free wordpress booking plugins available for you. start there if you would like, but if you are an established business, a paid version would be a better option. with wordpress and all the plugins and extensions that are available on the market, you can have almost entire business automatized. let tools and software do the hard work for you. amelia avoid sticky notes and give everyone a chance to book your services throughout the entire day (and night) by using a simple, flexible and manageable wordpress booking plugin, amelia. you only need one tool to automize your entire appointment bookings regardless of the industry you operate in. fitness centers, beauty and hair salons, consultancy, dentists, the list goes on and on. in short, when there is a need for an online booking system, amelia is your best bet. with amelia, you will show every potential customer how professional you are across all chapters of your business. the plugin smoothly integrates into your website, is effortless to use and makes managing and maintaining all your bookings child’s play. there are also different front- and back-end demos at your disposal to save you even more time. you are short moments away to changing your business and scaling it above and beyond with amelia. more info / download demo hotel booking lite if you are looking for a way to sort out an easy and convenient online booking, you better check out hotel booking lite wordpress plugin. out of the box, you can employ the tool for all sorts of vacation rentals, as it instantly adapts and adjusts to all sorts of intentions. hotel booking lite is also flexible enough to work with any theme and compatible with other plugins. for instance, hotel booking lite works with wpml and it comes fully translatable. fun fact: hotel booking lite also comes in fourteen different languages. moreover, hotel booking lite supports different currencies, free and paid extras, tons of pricing variables, real-time search and search recommendations. there is more to this excellent solution that will get online bookings going without a hassle. download and activate hotel booking lite now and see how simple it is. more info / download team booking when it comes to adding a booking system to your website, there is no need to do it from scratch. you do not have to higher a developer to build it for you. even if you have large amounts of budgets, that would not be necessary. rather spend that money on your business growth and promotion. said that, with flexible paid wordpress booking plugins, you can have it done quickly and efficiently for a small investment. the plugin we will look into just now is team booking. one of its key features is the fact that it links to google calendar and uses the tool for planning the availability with it. in three simple steps, you’ll have it set up. first, you create an event in google calendar. second, with the creation of an event, a free slot opens on your site’s calendar. and third, when someone books the slot, the event is updated immediately. as an administrator, you can create as many services as you would like. moreover, you can add and handle staff and, of course, adjust the plugin so it meets your business needs. team booking plugin works with shortcodes and gives you total freedom to expanding your page with a beautiful scheduling system. more info / download demo bookly one solution that covers all of your bookings and appointments. it goes by the name, bookly. not only will you save time with it, you will also grow your business with it. up until this point, you might be accepting new clients and schedule them only during your working hours. well, on the web, working hours are 24/7/365. all there is you would need to do is to check the notification next day when you come back to the office. in the meantime, bookly will do all the rest for you. fully automatize the reservations and let customers use bookly’s smooth mobile integration to book on the go. offer different services, set prices and give them an option to choose the expert they prefer. speaking of mobile, you and your clients can receive notifications via sms and email. moreover, the plugin integrates with both woocommerce and google calendar for even more options. with woocommerce, you can use all its payment methods and with google calendar, you never, ever forget about the next session. in just a few minutes, you will have bookly installed and organized, not to mention, live on your page. and for those who need additional support, you all get an in-depth documentation where you have it all on paper. plus, dedicated staff is always ready to help you out. convinced yet? more info / download demo booked booked is a highly popular wordpress plugin that will take care of all of your appointment and reservation needs. it is simple and goes straight to the point with a stunning calendar that you can adjust to your website’s design. let it follow your branding precisely and make it blend beautifully into your layout. on your website, you can add as many calendars as you would like with different custom fields. what you can also do is to assign booking agents to each calendar so they can handle the appointments. just look at a hair salon for an example. there can be three hairdressers working there. having three different calendars assigned to each, the client can pick the one they prefer most and book them for their next cut. booked is a flexible plugin which one can do many things with. create custom time slots and allow visitors to book as guests, by using their name and email only. on the other hand, with a custom registration form customers can become members and get their own profile page from where they can manage their booking easily. the plugin also comes with a widget for you to place it anywhere on your website. ready to move your bookings exclusively to the online space? more info / download demo motopress hotel booking plugin motopress hotel booking plugin is the ultimate property rental system for wordpress. if you rent out hotel rooms, guest houses, inns, b&bs or similar lodging establishments, this is one of the most solid and trusted solutions for your business. it’s a standalone plugin, namely, you are free to integrate it with any wordpress theme. if you are you using any popular ota like airbnb to rent out your accommodations, motopress hotel booking supports automatic synchronization with otas via ical format – so, you can have all your properties listed on otas and on your brand website simultaneously without overbooking. the plugin offers such options as: seasonal pricing and rates, automatic inventory control, flexible booking rules (e.g. blocking accommodations for certain periods of time, fixed departure and arrival times), selling extras and packages, complete taxes and fees info, discount coupons, complete payments history for tracking all financial data, and more. the system also handles all sorts of automatic email notifications – booking confirmation, cancellation, etc. for your guests and website administrators. one more cool feature is online payments for bookings. they can be accepted via paypal, 2checkout, braintree, stripe, beanstream/bambora or any other gateway available in woocommerce payments addon. optionally, you may accept bookings without a payment (after arrival). more info / download demo bookmify as the name suggests, bookmify is a neat, easy to use and sophisticated appointment booking plugin for wordpress. it is a tool that will help you keep your thing organized but, most importantly, bookmify is here for you to grow your business to new heights. in short, it is all-in-one software which caters to numerous different projects related to health, education, fitness, entertainment, consulting, yoga studios and dentists. even if you would like to go entirely against the norm, you can do just that, too, with the convenient and practical bookmify. some of the core features and functions of bookmify include online appointment scheduling, payments, employee login, custom fields, email notifications and two-way synchronization with google calendar. by the way, before you fully dive in, feel free to first take a peek at all the front- and back-end demos that bookmify has in store for you. this will give you an even better idea about the amazing pack of goodies that bookmify brings to the table for all its users. last but not least, bookmify treats you to professional support, too, so you never feel lonely. more info / download demo hbook hbook is short for hotel booking wordpress plugin which comes handy for everyone offering accommodations. even those in the motel, hostel, holiday apartment, campsite, and the like businesses. you can easily tailor hbook to your needs and requirements. existing businesses, feel free to integrate the plugin into your websites and have reservations all sorted out. even if you are already using software for bookings, it might not perform the best both for you the owner and the end-user. do not be afraid to upgrade with a first-class premium solution. as soon as you do it, you will find out how much you were missing. a struggle-free booking and reservation solution for your businesses is hbook. show casual visitors and returning guests your available dates with a modern calendar and let them book straight from your website. no need for phone calls, additional emails and extra paperwork anymore. it is all online, assembled and organized. share table rates and let them complete the deal with a beautiful booking form. make your hotel, hostel, motel or any other business in the industry appear even more professional on the web. for every owner who does not have a website yet, take a look at our best hotel wordpress themes with booking system included. more info / download demo woocommerce booking & reservation plugin when you would like to offer your potential customers to book or reserve a product or service with you, do it conveniently with woocommerce booking & reservation plugin. the name of this wordpress booking plugin says it all. if you were operating via phone or email so far, make a drastic change with a sophisticated tool. not only is the integration quick and simple, but, all of a sudden, you will have your business ten times more organized. when working with woocommerce booking & reservation plugin, you will uncover loads of different features. you can now push bookable products and services with a calendar, enable paid and unpaid booking and put up exclusive free deals. there are tons of different options to choose from to customize bookings and reservations to your business’ regulations. the plugin is also compatible with wpml to ensure full translation of your booking and reservation system. more info / download demo book an appointment online pro regardless of the services you offer, your existing and new clients can now make an appointment online with book an appointment online pro plugin. best for doctor, stylist, finance consulting, law or any other appointments you can think of. book an appointment online pro is a tool that you will integrate into your existing website swiftly. you can also alter it to your needs and requirements precisely and offer a customized appointment process. core features of book an appointment online pro are full responsiveness, multi-step appointment, two different schedules, pop-up form and both 12h and 24h time formats. it offers paypal payments, provides email and sms notifications and comes in several different languages. and if you do not find your language, you can also translate book an appointment online pro accordingly. besides, the tool is also compatible with google calendar and offers one-way synchronization. more info / download demo hotel booking for hotels and other accommodation businesses, having a full-blown online booking system available can be highly rewarding. not only that, from now on, you do not need to rely only on 3rd-party platforms to keep your rooms full. with a stunning hotel wordpress theme in combination with hotel booking plugin, you can create a professional online appearance that will take your business to a new level. what’s important to understand, you will not need to perform any coding and advanced stunts to realize your dream hotel website where customers can book a room. hotel booking offers a room reservation that is based on the popular woocommerce plugin. they can also check availability, set check-in and check-out dates, number of folks and children. you can configure seasonal pricing and set additional fees for cleaning and room service, breakfast and so much more. due to woocommerce integration, hotel booking supports all its payment gateways. more info / download demo hotel booking payment request whoever is using motopress hotel booking plugin, you can now take things to the next level with hotel booking payment request. indeed, it is exclusive to those who are working with renting apartments, hotels, hostels and other accommodations. hotel booking payment request will easily integrate into your current system, unlocking new features to simplify and automate running your business further. in short, hotel booking payment request – hence the name – automates requesting and collecting payments from your clients. features include customized email notifications, tons of payment gateway options, payments tracking and more. with the automation method, you will never miss sending out a reminder/payment request ever again. on top of that, each client receives personalized booking details upon payment. while you focus on the marketing side of your accommodation business, let tools do the hard work, keeping it all as organized as possible. more info / download demo booki booki is a catchy name for a wordpress booking plugin which comes great for appointments and reservations. as the official statement says, it is “the plugin that does the work.” to get the most out of a plugin, pick any from this batch and you will most definitely be satisfied with it. of course, choose the right one according to your needs. still, with the features and flexibility, you can easily do minor adjustments and have it ready for a different niche. when speaking about booki, the plugin is no different. it comes with many goodies that you can take to your benefit and make your online scheduling business be of top-notch quality. for taxi, tickets and all the way to classes and all sorts of rentals, feel free to pick booki and it will make it happen for you. with booki, you are not limited to the number of booking services nor service providers. there could be as many as you want. service providers also get a stats page where they can quickly check the progress. as far as booking confirmation goes, you can let booki do it automatically or you can approve/disapprove them manually, one at a time. whether it is confirmation or cancellation, clients receive email notification either way. in the back-end, each booking is managed like an order over which the admin has total control of. this are just a few brief features of booki for you to get the gist of it. more info / download demo rnb – woocommerce rental & bookings system woocommerce-based wordpress websites can sport their private booking and rental solution with rnb plugin. it is easy and it is efficient, perfect for everyone to implement it on their websites. are you renting cars? do you own a bike rental shop? does your business entirely focus on renting apartments? are you in need to find out how to handle the attendees for your forthcoming webinar? all your struggle and worry end now. here is rnb, a paid wordpress booking plugin that flawlessly integrates into your website with full booking and rental assets. to list all the amazing features of rnb, i would almost need to write a separate article. that said, i will focus on the integrations and one additional hot treat. rnb integrates with google calendar, supports email notifications and will not let you down when translating it. it is wpml ready. moreover, full calendar order report is available to have an in-depth overview of each booking. never lack information about each client and the reservation he or she just completed. and now about the hot treat. rnb also features a request for a quote feature which includes a full step by step process from the initial customer request to the final booking approval. more info / download demo brw brw is a booking and rental wordpress plugin that works for an assortment of different businesses. whether you would like to offer hotel and room bookings or rent cars, bikes, boats, you name it, even taxi services, everything works with brw flawlessly. out of the box, brw supports five different types of rentals, like hourly, mixed, during a specific period and more. you have basically unlimited features per booking or rental to tailor it to your business’ needs precisely. other treats include calendar booking, availability, custom checkout, custom attributes, practical search function and full control over pricing setup. there is still more to brw, but all in all, it is a powerful plugin that will help you offer online bookings and rentals straight from your website. keep it organized and scale your business to new heights. more info / download demo booking master booking master – hence the name – is a wordpress booking plugin that helps you add a responsive calendar to your website which users can use to make an online appointment. the design works on all devices, from handheld to desktop smoothly, ensuring an excellent experience at all times. you can also create all sorts of different calendars if necessary or stick to a single powerful and practical one. some of the features of booking master are ratings, comments, private booking, customizable event emails, front-end management and full support for bootstrap framework (3 and 4). there are little work and configurations required to put booking master into play and activate it on your website. once done, you only copy and paste the shortcode and add it to your page. everything is done on the front-end anyway, ensuring easy management. more info / download demo restaurant reservation if you would like to take things to another degree, offer your restaurant customers to make reservations online with restaurant reservation. bear in mind, this wordpress booking plugin works for events, bars and other types of location where table reservation can be an option. with excellent customization functions, you can quickly alter restaurant reservation to work for your specific restaurant. what’s cool about restaurant reservation plugin is that you can actually create the plan of the room and let the customer decide where they would like to sit (if the table is still free). at the cart page, the customer will see booking information, as well as the price. from then on, let the plugin do all the work for you, taking care of the reservation. instead of using a paper-based system, automate it with restaurant reservation. more info / download demo wooevents if you are familiar with woocommerce already and if it happens that your website runs on it, wooevents is an ideal tool for the organization of your events. there is nothing else you need for your business other than, of course, realizing the actual event. what you might know already is the fact that with a practical online booking software, you do not need to worry about one-on-one reservations. this is where wooevents comes in handy. it comes with a calendar and all the necessities for a flawless internet reservation. since it is fully responsive and mobile-friendly, customers can use it on any device they want. the same goes for cart and checkout pages. in short, every client will undergo a fantastic user experience that is for sure. to dig a little deeper into wooevents wordpress booking plugin, we find that it includes quite a generous amount of features. create events and sell tickets with help from woocommerce. offer various payment methods for clients who like paying with credit cards and those using online payment services. moreover, wooevents supports visual composer and will make editing and configuration uncomplicated. you can also export all attendees info in a csv file. when someone places an order, wooevents sends out a pdf invoice with a barcode. if you are living in a non-english speaking country, feel free to translate text and localize wooevents. it is just so much you can do with paid wordpress booking plugins, like wooevents. more info / download demo webba booking can you optimize time? of course, you can. that should not even be a question. there are tools available that help you do it and take care of part of your business. for service providers which require appointment system, webba booking plugin is one of many options that you can apply to your business. it comes beneficial for both you, the owner and the end client. it is a comfortable solution to achieving full organization of your bookings and appointments. but it also creates a pleasant experience for those interested in scheduling your services. webba booking allows you to customize the design of the booking form and make it follow your website precisely. there are even 79 presets available for you to use them out of the box or further improve on them. you can add custom fields to the form, webba booking integrates with contact form 7 and you can change texts. the booking system you are about to create for your website will be fully responsible, for finishing bookings from everywhere. webba booking can send the appointments information straight to google calendar and accepts online payments via paypal. regarding payments, whatever currency paypal supports, you, too, support it on your website. the paid wordpress booking plugin, webba booking, is fully equipped with notifications. it takes care of familiarizing the customer and the administrator about every booking. not only that, it automatically sends out a reminder one day before the appointment. csv export is also available for those who would want to print appointments. more info / download demo car wash booking system for wordpress do you need something more specific? something niche-oriented, powerful and customizable? if you are into car wash business and you own one, let clients enjoy the reservation process directly from your website. with the car wash booking system for wordpress, calls and emails are a thing of the past. calls to the noisy car wash shops are no more. let your website and a flexible plugin take care of your clients. all there is you need to check is the notifications you receive and have it all organized in the admin panel. configuring car wash booking system for wordpress will be easy as pie. before you know it, the online reservation system is ready on your website to take fresh and existing clients. the plugin supports coupons, paypal and stripe as payment options and cross-browser compatibility. there are a lot of features available, from setting booking slots per minute and confirmation emails to displaying when you have breaks and creating booking system based on the location. but these are just a handful of characteristics. your car wash gets on a whole new level of professionalism with a solid booking system. to build yourself a stunning website for your car wash, check out the best automotive wordpress themes. more info / download demo cleanto businesses like house and office cleaning, handyman and plumbing services, painting and the like, do you have your booking sorted? if you are keeping it old-school, writing it all down in a notebook, you do not have to anymore. not only does it save you time, with your pro-level online appearance, you can easily become the top player in your industry. to add one of the most useful features to your website, booking, consider cleanto. clients can hire you from the comfort of their mobile phones in just a few click. and you, you have it all as organized as ever. cleanto has all the needed and a whole bunch more features that your business can take to its advantage. custom price calculations, one page booking (quick bookings!), partial deposit and coupon discounts to start with. you have full control over the design and can tailor it to meet your branding to a t. users can create an account which comes very helpful if they plan to work with you in the future. however, booking as a guest is possible, too. display a weekly or monthly schedule, offering recurring discounts and make sure to get them familiar with when your lunch break is. more info / download demo salon booking wordpress plugin salon booking wordpress plugin is not a multipurpose tool like some form the list of our paid wordpress booking plugins is. this product is exclusive to niches like barber shops, clinics and therapists, spas and wellness centers and even equipment rentals. a very straightforward plugin to add to your website and start growing your business. there are a lot of customization options available for creating custom looks which beautifully blend with your page and branding. among many features that salon booking wordpress plugin sports, sms notifications are one of my favorite. it sends information, followups and reminders to users, admins and assistants. however, for those who want to keep things email-only, the same can be executed via emails. it all comes down to what you fancy. booking plugin for salons is mobile-friendly and synchronizes with google calendar two way. from the plugin to the calendar and vice versa. you can set multiple booking rules for the salon, each assistant and every service your business offers. have a variety for the customer to have a broader specter of options. some would only like to trim their hair while the others would like to get the hair color done and shave by the assistant, sally. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. bookingswordpress plugins share this share tweet pin it share rokr rok is a professional content creator and an enthusiastic marketer who spends most of his day behind the screen, drinking coffee and listening to black metal. but he never misses a daily workout to get the blood flow going. he goes by the quote, "only a fool worries over what he can't control." related posts 17 best custom login page generator plugins for wordpress 2020 why do we buy a wordpress theme? because we don't want our site to look… top 15 plugins for data visualization on wordpress websites 2020 data visualization is the process of taking raw (usually numerical) data and converting them into… 21 best free wordpress quiz plugins for 2020 need to run a quiz or survey on your website? these wordpress quiz plugins are… wordpress cache plugin benchmarks a speedy website attracts more traffic, reduces bounce rates, and ranks better on search engines.… 13 amazing paid wordpress advertising plugins 2020 your website is growing steadily, which means that the time has come to look into… top 13 free and premium content syndication plugins for wordpress coming up with ideas, researching ideas, writing about ideas, and finally publishing ideas, each part… this post has 2 comments vinoth v says: at hi, i am looking for a book rental theme in wordpress. is there any theme in colorlib that would meet my need? please let me know. reply aigars says: at there aren’t any specific themes for that since it is a very tiny niche. i would recommend to start with any multipurpose theme and then build a site from there. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 18 paid wordpress affiliate plugins for business growth 2020 next post: the best 18 wordpress autoblogging plugins 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×