barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up answers 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest savannah lyons writer shares share tweet pin ***looking for the ultimate wedding gift for you and your favorite pooch? try barkbox! each month barkbox sends 2 innovative toys, designed in-house, 2 full bags of all-natural treats, and a drool-worthy chew right to your door. all treats are made in the usa and canada, and never contain any wheat, soy, or corn. #barkboxday will be the best day for pups and their newlywed parents. every box has a new theme each month. for no additional charge, barkbox is able to customize your dog’s box based on their specific treat and toy preferences. this creates a truly personalized experience for every single pup. sign up here and receive a free extra toy every month. <– this deal is worth up to $120 in value if you sign up for a 12-month subscription! *** your wedding day is getting closer and you’ve already picked out everything you and your partner wanted. but seeing as you’re a dog-loving maniac, what are the best dog gifts for your wedding registry? don’t forget to think about your dog when compiling a list of items your new family will need once everything has settled down after the big day. your pup has been by your side every step of the way, so make sure to add a few things to the registry that will get that tail wagging. i’m sure your friends and family members will understand – especially if they love your dog almost as much as you! table of contents 1. cypress and whim: his, her, and paws key ring/leash holder, $34.99 2. barkbox 3. super chewer barkbox 4. benebones, $18.00 5. barkbox orthopedic ultra plush pressure relief memory foam dog bed 6. 4knine dog seat cover with hammock 7. wickedbone smart bone 8. fitbark 2 dog activity monitor 9. bone appetit ceramic dog treat canister 10. french bulldog boxing chef apron 11. embark dog dna test kit 12. aquapaw pet bathing tool, $24.95 13. petchatz hd & paw call, starting at $399.99 14. you, me, and the dog welcome mat 15. dog butt magnets 16. convertible dog float 17. outward hound dog brick puzzle 18. lumoleaf dog treat ball, starting at $13.80 19. solvit deluxe tagalong pet seat booster 20. bissel pet hair eraser handheld vacuum 21. petsafe drinkwell 22. puracy natural home cleaning set 23. custom dog notepad 1. cypress and whim: his, her, and paws key ring/leash holder, $34.99 why we love it: never lose your keys or leash again. hand-crafted style for your door way. cute and functional 2. barkbox, starting at $22.00 why we love them: comes with two toys, two bags of treats, and a delicious chew! brimming with creativity and fun for your pups. each box is designed around an awesome theme like “chewrassic park” or “knights of the hound table.” 3. super chewer barkbox, starting at $29.00 why we love it: just like the barkbox only all the toys are guaranteed tough for your little super chewer! comes with an extra delicious chew! the toys last longer and your pup will stay busy longer! 4. benebones, $18.00 why we love them: they’re made for the strongest of chewers and taste like peanut butter! they’re long-lasting and help clean your pup’s teeth. they keep your pup busy while you and your partner are doing…other things. 5. barkbox orthopedic ultra plush pressure relief memory foam dog bed, starting at $27.99 why we love it: pressure relief memory foam mattress. can also be used in a crate. easily removable cover for washing. 6. 4knine dog seat cover with hammock, $59.99 why we love it: fits cars, trucks, and suvs. heavy-duty and waterproof material that comes in various sizes and colors. lifetime warranty. 7. wickedbone smart bone, $139.99 why we love it: easy to use app for ios and android. auto play or driver mode options. easy to clean and safe, and comes in different colors! 8. fitbark 2 dog activity monitor, $69.95 why we love it: keep up on your pup’s activity levels, quality of sleep, distance traveled, calories burned and overall health 24-7. durable and waterproof for lots of outdoor fun. link your fitbit, apple watch, health kit or google fit device and build healthy habits together 9. bone appetit ceramic dog treat canister, $14.99 why we love it: glazed ceramic container. air tight seal to keep treats fresh. can hold lots of treats! 10. french bulldog boxing chef apron, $21.94 why we love it: show your love of tough pups. hand made aprons with a variety of french bulldog styles. matching chair cushions and wooden spoons for the full set! 11. embark dog dna test kit, starting at $189.00 why we love it: quick and easy to use, just a swab of your pup’s cheek and send it in. the embark dog dna test kit tests for over 250 dog breeds, even wolf, coyote, and village dog ancestry. not only identifies breeds, but also can be used as a relative finder for your fur baby 12. aquapaw pet bathing tool, $24.95 why we love it: shower sprayer and scrubber combined into one design that fits right in your palm. adaptable to bathroom shower heads and garden hoses. one size fits all. 13. petchatz hd & paw call, starting at $399.99 why we love it: a digital pet care device to check on your pup at home and keep them entertained with games and interacting with their favorite humans. treat dispensing mechanism and two-way video chatting. call your pup from anywhere using an ios/android app or desktop computer. 14. you, me, and the dog welcome mat, $45.00 why we love it: large handmade and customized welcome mat. can add several names. unique designs for unique families. 15. dog butt magnets, $12.99 why we love it: fun and functional gift for any occasion. a nice mix of dog butt breeds in the 6 pack assortment. they also have cat butts and safari animal butts magnets for a range of animal lovers. 16. convertible dog float, $39.99 why we love it: your favorite pup can relax in the pool with you! thick durable plastic to handle your dog’s nails. double lined treat bin compartment (can also be used to hold pool toys, too!). 17. outward hound dog brick puzzle, $19.60 why we love it: fun physical & mental stimulation for your dog. easy to clean. treat dispensing puzzle to reward your hard-working pup. 18. lumoleaf dog treat ball, starting at $13.80 why we love it: puzzle treat ball comes in different sizes. you’re able to adjust the difficulty settings for more of a challenge. prevent boredom with mental and physical stimulation. 19. solvit deluxe tagalong pet seat booster, $41.95 why we love it: available in large and extra large. machine washable cover and reversible pillow. handy front storage pocket to hold treats, poop bags, leashes, or toys! 20. bissel pet hair eraser handheld vacuum, $30.99 why we love it: made with pet owners in mind! specialized rubber nozzle attracts hair and pulls out dirt on areas such as stairs and upholstery. bagless vacuum with easy to clean multi-layer filtration system. 21. petsafe drinkwell, starting at $47.95 why we love it: can hold up to 168oz for extra large pups and multi-dog families. adjustable stream. filtered water makes sure your fur family gets a clean refreshment. 22. puracy natural home cleaning set, $37.99 why we love it: organic cleaners and hypollergenic soaps. a cleanser or soap for everything in your home. products safe for pets and children. 23. custom dog notepad, starting at $6.75 why we love it: great for making a list of “thank you” cards! tear-off notepad. totally customized and magnets are optional. featured image via lev kuperman looking for more helpful posts like this? what’s the best dog gift for a boyfriend? what are the best gifts for dog lovers under $10? the perfect father’s day gift for every kind of dog dad 23 gifts for humans who love dogs more than people comments poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up savannah lyons writer labrador retriever breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts cavalier king charles spaniel breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts french bulldog breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go