worksheets all topics a-z grammar vocabulary speaking reading listening writing pronunciation virtual classroom articles posters books more worksheets by season 600 creative writing prompts warmers, fillers & ice-breakers coloring pages to print flashcards classroom management worksheets emergency worksheets revision worksheets resources we recommend busyteacher home » pronunciation free pronunciation worksheets pronunciation - sometimes known as “pro-nuhn-see-ey-shuhn” - is one of the simplest esl topics to explain, at least in theory; and also one of the hardest for students to get exactly right. as you know, there’s a big gap between grammatical fluency and native-sounding speech - and even long before that, in esl levels one and two, it’s crucial to make sure students pronounce their vocabulary words in ways that’ll be easily understandable to native speakers. but sometimes, they just can’t seem to hear the difference between their pronunciation and yours - which can be a tough barrier to break through. depending on the level of your class, you might take any of a number of different approaches when teaching pronunciation. you might pause the lesson when a student’s pronunciation is wrong, and repeat the word with him or her until it sounds better. you might ask your students to work through lists of commonly mispronounced words, saying each one carefully. if you’ve got a large class, you might pair your students up, and have them repeat certain tricky words back-and-forth to each other. or you might do all these things, and more. whatever your approach, busyteacher.org has 230 pronunciation worksheets to back you up. no matter what level your students are, what theme you want to use in your lesson, or what kinds of pronunciation exercises you want to organize, we’ve got worksheets to fit the bill. when you step into your classroom with busyteacher.org pronunciation worksheets, you’ll know you’re ready to get an engaging, challenging exercise started - even if you’ve had to prepare in a hurry at the last minute. (hey, it happens, right?) the 230 pronunciation worksheets here on busyteacher.org draw inspiration from every topic imaginable - from basic vocabulary and grammar to popular songs and movies. it doesn’t matter if you’re looking for a simple on-paper exercise, a light-hearted activity, or a high-energy game - somewhere in our collection you’ll find exactly what you’re looking for. in fact, we guarantee that your students will like any worksheet you choose. why? because every worksheet here on busyteacher.org was created and tested in the classrooms of real esl teachers just like you. all our worksheets are available thanks to the contributions of our worldwide community of teachers - and it’s a community that we’d love you to join, too. if you’ve got a worksheet that’s worked well in your classroom, just click the “submit a worksheet” button at the bottom of this page to share it with esl teachers around the globe. not sure which worksheet to choose? no problem! just choose from one of our top ten most popular pronunciation worksheets - or browse through the collection in thumbnail view, so you can see a snapshot of each worksheet before you download it. once you’ve found some worksheets you like, just grab ‘em, print’ em, and put ‘em to use. they’re all completely free to modify and share as you see fit. it’s all waiting - so take a look, and print out any worksheets that catch your eye. they’ll be winners in your classroom - we guarantee it! read more......less filter by level new complete beginner (53) elementary (105) pre-intermediate (100) intermediate (79) upper-intermediate advanced (52) exam level (10) suitable for all levels (38) clear filters filter top articles in this category top 10 tongue twisters: true teacher's treasure? top 10 ways to teach vowel pronunciation in english how to drill: drilling activities for your english classroom 7 fun esl games to practice pronunciation 6 fun exercises to improve esl pronunciation how do you say that? the 10 coolest pronunciation tools for esl students 7 worst pronunciation mistakes esl students make around the world 14 quick tips for teaching homophones the 9 best online resources for esl pronunciation practice yes yes yes! how to teach sentence stress dramatically improve the way you teach: check out our writing resources creative writing prompts 1-50 creative writing prompts 51-100 creative writing prompts 101-150 creative writing prompts 151-200 creative writing prompts 201-250 creative writing prompts 251-300 creative writing prompts 301-350 creative writing prompts 351-400 creative writing prompts 401-450 creative writing prompts 451-500 creative writing prompts 501-550 creative writing prompts 551-600 make a word search: create awesome-looking custom word searches in seconds! create now › make a word scramble: instantly create custom word/sentence scrambles for your class! create now › make a double puzzle: generate double puzzles your students will love - hours of fun! create now › esl articles view our latest knowledgebase articles that will help you become a better english teacher. learn from professional teachers and put a bit of your own creativity into it! top 10 tongue twisters: true teacher's treasure? 10 february themed language building activities beyond martin luther king day: teaching argument through the writings of martin luther king wida and access testing: what you need to know how to be a better teacher: the secret recipe that every pro knows view all rate this category 4.1 out of 5, rated by 13 teachers explore pronunciation: homophones 77 intonation, rhythm and stress 45 tongue twisters 34 most popular songs and phonetics: can't take my eyes off you by muse ipa flashcards "ough" what a story! sound flashcards bingo for practice with numbers consonants flashcards short vowels "ough" what a story: practice sheet the three little kittens, powerpoint the sounds of english for baltic & slavonic language speakers sort by: most recent | most viewed | rating ipa flashcards ppt wmappleteach •alphabet, dictionary activities, intonation, rhythm and stress, flashcard sets these ipa flashcard powerpoint slides can help students learn & review the international phonetic alphabet. there are three sample words and their phonetic spellings for each sound/symbol, th ... 1 8,953 all confusing words - part 6 kristine44 •adjectives vs. adverbs, correcting mistakes, homonyms, homophones this is worksheet number six to practise on confusing words. 10 pages, 40 exercises (homophones, verbs vs. adjectives, nouns vs. verbs, etc.…). different levels. in alphabetical order, wit ... 1 12,942 pre-intint confusing words - part 4 kristine44 •adjectives vs. adverbs, correcting mistakes, verb, homophones this worksheet contains 40 exercises to practice on confusing words. homophones, verbs vs. adjectives, verbs vs. nouns etc... 10 pages, in alphabetical order, with contents and answer key. a few ... 1 17,912 pre-intintadv confusing words - part 3 worksheet kristine44 •adjectives vs. adverbs, correcting mistakes, verb, homophones this worksheet contains 40 exercises to practice on confusing words. homophones, homonyms, verbs vs. adjectives, verbs vs. nouns etc... 9 pages, in alphabetical order, with contents and answer ke ... 1 16,471 elempre-int poetry worksheet - writing rhyming lines m. crowe •creative writing prompts, intonation, rhythm and stress this is a creative writing prompt to help english as a second language students practice rhyming words, with a minor emphasis on poetry rhythm. familiar words with multiple familiar words as rhyme ... 1 11,613 elem put busyteacher in your inbox sign up for the busyteacher weekly and be the first to get direct links to our latest teaching articles, worksheets and lesson plans. goes out to 323,134 subscribers every wednesday. see last week's issue. yes, sign me up! thank you for joining our mailing list! pronouns and homophones worksheet el-sayed ramadan •possessive pronouns, reflexive pronouns, personal pronouns, homophones homophones are words that sound the same but have different spellings and meanings. some examples of homophone pairs include read/reed, write/right, and their/there. some pronouns and pronoun/verb ... 1 27,049 pre-intint how to speak to be understood - a funny conversation activity sylwia •teenagers, adult learners, role playing games, intonation, rhythm and stress an amusing idea of how to practice intonation and communication. the students are asked to put the missing punctuation marks, make dialogues according to some specific clues, use their imagination ... 1 77,287 pre-intint confusing words - parts 2 kristine44 •adjectives vs. adverbs, correcting mistakes, verb, homophones this worksheet contains 40 exercises to practice on confusing words. homophones, verbs vs. adjectives, verbs vs. nouns, etc. 10 pages, in alphabetical order, with contents and answer key. some exa ... 1 29,319 elempre-int homophones game - cards with pairs ruth pardiñas •spelling, homophones this worksheet contains 28 pairs of homophones, and it can be used to focus on the pronunciation of some everyday vocabulary. all the words may be cut out and then put back together in pairs using ... 2 24,149 all confusing words - part 1 kristine44 •other adjectives, verb, homophones this worksheet contains 40 exercises to practice confusing words. homophones, verbs vs. adjectives, verbs vs. nouns etc... 8 pages in alphabetical order, with contents and answer key. some example ... 2 34,002 elempre-int the spoken essay: structure and persuasion in roosevelt's pearl harbor speech todd davis •passive voice, past simple, teenagers, intonation, rhythm and stress fdr's request to congress to declare war on japan in retaliation for the attack on america is historic and iconic, as much for the structure of the speech as for the gravity of the attack itself. ... 1 16,593 intadv homophone pairs game ruthpaca •spelling, homonyms, homophones this worksheet contains 28 pairs of homophones. it can be used to focus on the pronunciation of some everyday vocabulary. all the words may be cut out and then put back together in pairs using dif ... 7 31,744 all the sound [au] as in 'how' missbluebird •pronunciation » homophones use this worksheet to help your students with the pronunciation of diphthongs, especially the one found in "how". use the first part for reading and repeating words in isolation or in pairs. use t ... 7 21,439 all minimal pairs bingo lisa mann •pronunciation » homophones this is a bingo game to give students practice in differentiating between the short e and short i sounds (as in desk and disk). it can be modified to practice any sounds you are working on. ss fil ... 3 27,394 begelempre-int all english phonetic symbols (flashcards in pdf) elena •homophones, flashcard sets the worksheet contains 46 symbols of the english phonetics - consonants, vowels and stress symbol. the sounds are given with the examples of words. the flashcards can be easily printable and used ... 5 57,129 begelempre-int english worksheet - using the correct homophone (3) primaryleap •young learners, homework, spelling, homophones homophones are words that sound the same but have different spellings and meanings. i’ve had the flu since monday. the birds flew to their nests. students read the sentences and choose the c ... 8 44,138 elem english worksheet - using the correct homophone (2) primaryleap •young learners, homework, spelling, homophones homophones are words that sound the same but have different spellings and meanings. tom straightened the knot on his tie. please be careful not to break this vase. students read the sentences and ... 5 22,158 elem listening: pronunciation for portuguese speakers alinecmsd •present simple, l1 and l2, pronunciation this is a simple listening activity addressed to brazilian learners, but of course it can be applied to all students. i adapted this activity from a book, called take over, by denise santos. the a ... 5 13,884 begelem using the correct homophone 1 primaryleap •homework, homophones homophones are words that sound the same but have different spellings and meanings. students are asked to read the sentences and choose the correct homophone to complete each sentence. there are s ... 3 29,494 elempre-int homophones martha •pronunciation » homophones this worksheet will help you review the most common homophones. it could be good for a g3 or g4 student. it includes a word search, matching activity, and two questions that will help you reinfoce ... 2 23,692 elem english consonant sounds yasaman •pronunciation » homophones cut the mobile phone. have your students stand up and ask other students for their mobile numbers. they have to use english consonant sounds to say their mobile numbers. 4 19,023 elem song worksheet: demons by imagine dragons (non-violence day) maría del mar rioboó •social issues, esl songs for teaching english, homophones this worksheet works with pronunciation and vocabulary about non-violence. it also has some general comprehension questions. students first listen to the song, then group the words with the s ... 6 28,757 int song worksheet: we are the champions by queen bingo busyteacher contributor •esl songs for teaching english, homophones the teacher will ask students to read the words, and then, choose 9 to put into the bingo card. while listening to the song, check if it was chosen the right ones. if the student chose 3 words in ... 8 31,472 all song worksheet: i still haven't found what i'm looking for by u2 (bingo) busyteacher contributor •esl songs for teaching english, homophones the teacher will ask students to read the words, and then, choose 9 to put into the bingo card. while listening to the song, check if it was chosen the right ones. if the student choses 3 words in ... 5 20,837 all english pronunciation for spanish speakers wandrews •intonation, rhythm and stress, tongue twisters i have taught several students whose first language is spanish, and this worksheet is one i have designed to help them practise some of the sounds in english that they seem to find most challengin ... 14 40,087 all got a great worksheet on pronunciation? tell us about it and become a busyteacher contributor! submit a worksheet previous page 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 next page busyteacher.org copyright 2007-2020 © about submit a worksheet log in terms privacy contact us mobile version working. please wait...