wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites in 2020 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites in 2020 last updated on february 7th, 2020 by editorial staff 11k shares share tweet share pin looking for the best wordpress plugins to take your business to the next level in 2020? there are over 55,000+ wordpress plugins that you can choose from. this makes it extremely overwhelming for new users to find the right plugin for their website. we are often asked by readers for the best wordpress plugin suggestions for seo, social media, backups, speed, etc. being the largest wordpress resource site, our experts test over a thousand best paid and free wordpress plugins every year, so we can make it easy for our users (you) to find the best solutions. having the right set of wordpress plugins and tools can help you grow your online business. in this article, we have shared our expert pick of the must-have wordpress plugins for business websites in 2020. note: these are the plugins that our team installs when we start a new blog or make a new website for our own businesses. 1. wpforms every website needs a contact form because it makes it easy for your visitors to get in touch with you. wpforms is the most user-friendly contact form plugin for wordpress. this drag & drop online form builder allows you to easily create contact forms, email subscription forms, online order forms, payment forms, surveys, polls, and basically all other types of online forms with just a few clicks. wpforms integrates with all popular marketing and payment platforms, so you can build powerful forms in less than 5 minutes. it even comes with options to help you create a custom wordpress user registration form and login page. we use wpforms on the wpbeginner website and all of our other websites. but we’re not alone. over 3 million websites use wpforms, and they have consistently maintained a 4.9 out of 5-star rating average for over 3 years now. there’s a free wpforms lite version available for those who are looking for a simple solution. if you are seriously looking to grow your business, then we recommend getting the pro version because it comes with all the powerful features you need to boost your lead generation efforts. use this wpforms coupon to get 50% off your purchase. alternative: formidable forms is an excellent alternative for creating advanced solution-focused wordpress forms. 2. monsterinsights monsterinsights is the best google analytics plugin for wordpress. it allows you to “properly” connect your website with google analytics, so you can see exactly how people find and use your website. the best part is that it shows you all the important stats that matter right inside your wordpress dashboard. you can then optimize your website accordingly to increase your traffic, subscribers, and revenue. we have detailed guides on how to install google analytics in wordpress, how to use google analytics to enable ecommerce tracking, and how to track user engagement. monsterinsights has a free version, but the true power of it only unlocks when you upgrade to the premium version. you can use our monsterinsights coupon to get 50% off your purchase. monsterinsights is used by over 2 million websites. 3. yoast seo seo helps you get more visitors from search engines to your website. while wordpress is seo friendly out of the box, there is so much more you can do to increase your website traffic using seo best practices. yoast seo is one of the most popular wordpress plugin of all time. out of all the wordpress seo plugins, yoast offers the most comprehensive solution with all the features and tools that you need to improve your on-page seo. it helps you add meta tags, generate sitemaps, connect your site to google search console, optimize it for social media, and more. yoast comes with a powerful redirect feature that lets you easily create 301 redirects which is extremely helpful. it also detects change of urls and create auto-redirects, so you don’t have any broken links on your website. for complete seo setup on your website, follow our ultimate wordpress seo tutorial for beginners with step by step instructions. alternative: all in one seo pack is a great alternative for yoast seo. 4. constant contact email is the most effective and most reliable marketing tool at your disposal as a business owner. it allows you to stay in touch with your users even after they leave your website. this is why we recommend every business owner to start building an email list right away. constant contact is one of the most popular email marketing service providers in the world. their platform allows you to build an email list and send beautiful email newsletters to your subscribers. it offers a quick and easy setup for non-techy users. it also works well with popular lead generation plugins for wordpress like optinmonster and wpforms. alternatives: sendinblue and convertkit are good alternatives if you want something more advanced, but they are more pricey. 5. optinmonster optinmonster is the most popular conversion rate optimization software in the market. it allows you to convert abandoning website visitors into email subscribers and customers. this wordpress plugin and application helps you get more email subscribers, fast. optinmonster comes with pre-made high-converting opt-in forms that you can easily customize with their drag & drop builder. their powerful display targeting features allow you to personalize the campaigns for each user, so you can show the right message at the right time. it’s a great solution for bloggers, business websites, and ecommerce websites. basically, if you want to make more money from your website traffic, then you need optinmonster. it helps you recover abandoned cart sales, convert website visitors, and grow your email list. read these case studies to see how much success other businesses are having by using optinmonster. we use optinmonster on wpbeginner and our other websites. 6. sucuri security should be a top priority for all online business owners. sucuri offers a wordpress security plugin and web application firewall that is probably one of the best protection you can get for your site. they monitor and protect your site from ddos, malware threats, xss attacks, brute force attacks, and basically every other type of attack. if you don’t have a firewall on your website, then you need to add one today. to learn more on how to strengthen the security of your website and protect your business, see our ultimate wordpress security guide with step by step instructions for beginners. sucuri help us block hundreds of thousands of attacks every month on wpbeginner. 7. updraftplus updraftplus is the most popular wordpress backup plugin on the market. it allows you to set up automatic backups and safely store them on a remote location like google drive, dropbox, s3, rackspace, ftp, email, and more. it also makes it super easy to restore your website from a backup. their base plugin is free, but they also have a paid plan with extra features and priority support. alternative: backupbuddy and vaultpress (jetpack backups) are also excellent solutions, but they are paid only. 8. wp rocket wp rocket is the best wordpress caching plugin on the market. it allows you to instantly improve your wordpress website speed and performance with no technical skills required. it automatically turns on recommended wordpress caching settings like gzip compression, page cache, and cache pre-loading. you can also turn on optional features like lazy loading images, cdn support, dns pre-fetching, minification, and more to further improve page load times. most importantly, wp rocket doesn’t wait for someone to request a page to save it in the cache. it automatically crawls and build your website cache which results in an instant performance boost. wp rocket also offers imagify which is a free image optimization service to help you speed up your website even further. this is by far the easiest and most beginner-friendly caching plugin. the only downside is that it’s paid only. alternative: wp super cache is free, but it’s not as powerful or easy. 9. beaver builder beaver builder is the best drag and drop page builder for wordpress. it allows you to easily customize your website design and create custom page layouts without writing any code. business owners love it because it lets them create completely custom landing pages within minutes without having to hire a developer. alternative: divi page builder plugin is a great alternative. 10. memberpress memberpress allows you to build online communities and membership sites using wordpress. it is the best wordpress membership plugin in the market. you can create subscriptions and restrict content to users based on their subscription plans. it works with all popular payment solutions and plays nicely with online stores using woocommerce. for detailed instructions, see our guide on how to make a membership website in wordpress. 11. rafflepress rafflepress is the best wordpress giveaway plugin on the market. it allows you to instantly increase your website traffic, get more social media followers, and email subscribers with viral giveaways and contests. rafflepress comes with an easy drag and drop giveaway builder along with proven giveaway templates that you can use to create a giveaway that attracts visitor’s attention. to enter the giveaway, website visitors must use their email address. this helps you get more subscribers for your email newsletter. rafflepress incentivizes users to follow your social profiles and share the giveaway with their friends to get more entries into the contest. this helps you increase social media engagement. the word-of-mouth marketing helps you get more traffic, faster! this results in more followers, more sales, and more revenue! you can easily connect your social profiles, wordpress form plugins, and all popular marketing platforms and crms. rafflepress has a free version called rafflepress lite that you can get started with. if you want more powerful features to skyrocket your growth, then you need to use rafflepress pro. wpbeginner users can use our rafflepress coupon code: wpbeginner20 to get an additional 20% off. 12. css hero wordpress themes rely on css for the visual appearance of your website. if you want to make customization to your theme, then you will have to learn css. this can be time-consuming for a business owner. css hero is a wordpress plugin that allows you to customize any wordpress theme without writing a single line of code. check out our review of how css hero makes wordpress customization easy for more information. it’s not a drag & drop page builder like beaverbuilder that helps you build custom layouts. rather it helps you customize any wordpress theme available in the market within minutes to match your needs. 13. seedprod seedprod is the best wordpress maintenance mode and coming soon page plugin that helps you collect leads and grow your followers even when your website is not available. if your site is under construction, then you can use it to create beautiful coming soon landing pages. it includes features like integration with your email marketing services, countdown timer, social media integration, and dozens of templates to choose from. 14. learndash learndash is the best wordpress lms plugin to create and sell online courses from your wordpress website. it has a drag and drop course builder that allows you to quickly add lessons, quizzes, and assignments to build your course. for detailed step by step instructions, see our guide on how to create online courses in wordpress using learndash. 15. g suite g suite is a suite of web applications like email, docs, spreadsheets, etc. created by google, this powerful set of office applications is cheaper, easy to deploy, and hassle free. it allows you to save costs on software licenses, hardware, hiring it staff, managing backups, and more. most importantly it allows you to use professional email addresses with your own business domain name right inside gmail. alternative: you can also get a free business email from your wordpress hosting provider or use microsoft office365. 16. semrush semrush is an all-in-one marketing toolkit for digital marketing professionals and business owners. it comes with powerful tools to help you improve your seo, paid traffic strategy, social media, and content & pr strategy. it also helps you gather competitive intelligence on your competitors, so you can outrank them and dominate your industry. it helps you do keyword research, backlink audit, track brand mentions, spy on competitors, discover best-performing posts and pages on social media, ad strategy analysis, and more. these short paragraphs are not enough to describe the true power of semrush. it’s a must have tool in our list for serious business owners. 17. livechat livechat inc is the best live chat support software for businesses and e-commerce websites. it is super easy to use and allows you to quickly add live chat on your wordpress website. it has tons of customization options, and it comes with a mobile app, so you can provide real-time support. it integrates with your existing support software, crm, email marketing, and other tools. most importantly, it loads fast and offers a great user experience. alternative: sendinblue chat is another popular service which lets you connect chat, crm, sms, facebook, and email in one platform. 18. pretty links pro pretty links pro is one of the best link management plugins for wordpress. it allows you to easily manage affiliate links while making it easy make your affiliate links short and memorable for sharing. it is the perfect tool for affiliate marketers, podcasters, business owners, and others who want to easily create short urls in wordpress. alternative: thirstyaffiliates is an excellent alternative with lots of powerful features. 19. shared counts shared counts is the best wordpress social media plugin that allows you to easily add beautiful social sharing buttons on your website. it also shows share counts, which helps you add social proof to your website. while there are many paid solutions available, this free plugin beats them all in code quality and performance. we use sharedcount on a lot of our website because it offers an easy out of the box solution for both beginners and developers. 20. wp mail smtp by default, wordpress uses the php mail function to send emails. the problem is that either wordpress hosting companies don’t have this feature setup properly, or they block it to prevent abuse. this basically means that you and your users may not receive important email notifications from your wordpress site. wp mail smtp solves this problem by sending wordpress emails using a proper smtp mail server. to learn more, see our article on how to fix wordpress not sending email issue. pro tip: the paid version called wp mail smtp pro comes with white glove setup and more features. basically, their support staff will set it up and connect it to use your smtp service provider. 21. insert headers and footers while managing your wordpress site, you may sometimes need to add code snippets to your wordpress header or footer for verification, inserting ad retargeting scripts, etc. insert headers and footer allows you to easily add code snippets to your wordpress site without editing your theme files. take a look at our tutorial on how to add header and footer code in wordpress. this free plugin is extremely handy for business owners. 22. wpml by default, wordpress does not allow you to easily create a multilingual website. this is a challenge for businesses that cater to a multilingual customer base in different geographic locations. this is where you’ll need wpml. it is a wordpress multilingual plugin that allows you to easily create multi-lingual websites with wordpress. it is very easy to use, seo friendly, and helps you easily create content in different languages. alternative: translatepress is an excellent alternative that’s growing fast. 23. woocommerce woocommerce is the most popular ecommerce plugin for wordpress used by over 4 million websites. it comes with all the powerful features that you need to create an online store. over the last few years, woocommerce has established itself as the most dominant ecommerce plugin for wordpress. there’s even a woocommerce ecosystem now with dedicated woocommerce hosting, woocommerce themes, and woocommerce plugins available. companion plugin: trustpulse helps you instantly win customer trust with social proof and fomo. alternative: bigcommerce is a fully-hosted headless ecommerce platform for wordpress. it offers high scalability and low maintenance for serious store owners. 24. nextiva nextiva is the best business phone service in terms of features and ease of use. they allow you to get a business phone number for your website which comes with advanced call routing, unlimited free domestic calling, voicemail to email or text, online faxing, and more. the best part is that you can receive calls from your business phone number straight to your cell phone which is excellent for small businesses. you can also set business hours, so you are not getting disturbed during holidays or non-work hours. their platform also offers crm, live chat, online surveys, and other communication features. you can manage it all in a simple web-based admin panel which makes it easy for small business owners to easily manage everything like a pro. we use nextiva voip for our business because it’s one of the most affordable and most reliable business phone service that grows with your business. alternative: ringcentral is another highly recommended phone service and business voip provider. bonus tools aside from the top 24 wordpress plugins and tools that we mentioned above, we also use and recommend the following tools to better manage our wordpress sites: grammarly – excellent grammar checking tool that comes with plagiarism detector, vocabulary enhancement, and more. publishpress – this plugin makes it easy for us to manage our editorial workflow in wordpress. antispam bee – an excellent plugin to improve comments section with reduced spam on your website. it works particularly well when used alongside with akismet. adobe photoshop – this makes it easy for us to create blog thumbnails and other images for our articles. maxcdn – this helps us speed up our website by geographically spreading our content to multiple servers (see: what is a cdn) envira gallery – we use this plugin to help us create better galleries with albums. codeable – a platform that helps you work with vetted wordpress developers to troubleshoot problems and make customizations. this concludes our list of the best wordpress plugins for business websites. depending on your business, you may not need to use all the wordpress plugins and tools mentioned in our list, but it’s pretty common for our readers to end up using at least 15 to 18 solutions that we have mentioned. now that you have the best wordpress plugins, you may also want to see our article on how to increase your website traffic (27 proven tips). if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 11k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 259 commentsleave a reply peter moses says: mar 4, 2020 at 1:48 pm thank you for sharing this is helpful reply wpbeginner support says: mar 5, 2020 at 8:56 am you’re welcome, glad you liked our guide reply greg m says: feb 12, 2020 at 2:07 pm definitely add yarpp (yet another related posts plugin) to the list! it’s great to increase engagement and conversions. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 13, 2020 at 8:43 am thank you for your recommendation for a plugin to add to our list reply jerkbbq haven says: feb 8, 2020 at 5:19 am hi tnx for sharing reply wpbeginner support says: feb 10, 2020 at 8:53 am you’re welcome reply edriss says: feb 7, 2020 at 9:55 am great article, looking forward for others. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 10, 2020 at 8:47 am thank you, glad you liked our article reply oreste says: feb 6, 2020 at 6:32 am hello, can you recommend a wp plug-in that performs the following function: 1. you give me your email address and i give you a pdf file and store the email address in a file. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: feb 6, 2020 at 9:10 am for what you’re wanting, you would want to take a look at our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-add-content-upgrades-in-wordpress-and-grow-your-email-list/ reply mohammad usman says: jan 27, 2020 at 2:27 am the best article i ever seen about wp plugins and it help a lot for beginners. whenever i need guide about anything related wp you’re always on the top results. thanks for info. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 27, 2020 at 1:17 pm you’re welcome, glad our guide was helpful reply avinash chauhan says: jan 21, 2020 at 7:20 am very nice article for me, thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 21, 2020 at 1:46 pm you’re welcome, glad you liked our list reply eric alexander says: jan 1, 2020 at 10:02 pm great information to make life easier for wordpress enthusiats. always had this feeling that the more number of plugins, the slower the loading speed. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 2, 2020 at 10:41 am that is a common misconception, you may want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/opinion/how-many-wordpress-plugins-should-you-install-on-your-site/ reply ubbertech says: dec 23, 2019 at 8:57 am when i start a wordpress site i have no idea about plugin and which plugins should i use in our website,but after reading this article i download the listed plugins to our site and use them. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 23, 2019 at 11:01 am glad we could recommend these helpful tools reply rizwan sheikh says: dec 20, 2019 at 2:59 pm greetings, so kindly guide me if i use 24 plugins for a site (that site can be the client’s site or my own) will be slow and it’s performance will be down. my instructor suggested me to use maximum 10 plugins for a site to make a good optimized site. so my question is this what should i do in this case? i shall wait your solution reply reply wpbeginner support says: dec 23, 2019 at 10:45 am the number of plugins is not what affects a site’s speed, you would want to take a look at our guide here for a better understanding of how many plugins to use: https://www.wpbeginner.com/opinion/how-many-wordpress-plugins-should-you-install-on-your-site/ reply srinivas itape says: dec 15, 2019 at 5:52 am thank you for sharing the valuable plug-ins about the wordpress sites. as i am new to the blogging community, this information is a lot helpful for me. thanks once again, reply wpbeginner support says: dec 16, 2019 at 10:38 am you’re welcome, glad our recommendations could be helpful reply azhar ramli says: oct 21, 2019 at 3:24 pm great explaination. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 22, 2019 at 9:56 am thank you reply jocelyn says: oct 21, 2019 at 12:08 pm what pop-up maker would you recommend? i’m looking for one easily customizable, especially on mobile vs. desktop. thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 22, 2019 at 9:47 am you would want to take a look at optinmonster for popups and other conversion tools reply hotel kronenhirsch says: sep 17, 2019 at 2:56 pm which media library folder plugin would you recommend? can’t find any that have really good reviews… filebird is breaking our site… reply wpbeginner support says: sep 18, 2019 at 9:38 am unless i hear otherwise, we do not have a recommended plugin for that purpose at the moment reply mash says: sep 2, 2019 at 8:17 am thanks was just looking for a multilingual plugin and found it here. great job. keep on the good work. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 4, 2019 at 9:56 am you’re welcome, glad our recommendation could help reply dalene says: aug 30, 2019 at 9:01 pm hi wpb great tutorial, as they all are. i have used your tutorials to learn wp and starting to build my site. i’ve used most of the plugins you’ve suggested and i’d like to give a shoutout to john from seedprod who patiently helped me with a query i had a few days ago. thank you wpb for your great work and support. you’ve opened up a whole new world to many people! reply wpbeginner support says: sep 4, 2019 at 9:15 am thank you, glad our recommendations and john were helpful reply yusuf saheed ademola says: aug 30, 2019 at 12:24 pm i have 4 out of all these plugins in my wordpress site. i am looking to install woocommerce for my business site this week. great guide for beginners really. this will help a lot of people. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 30, 2019 at 3:04 pm glad you’re using our recommended plugins, we hope this article does help many users reply irene says: aug 27, 2019 at 4:13 am wow.. interesting read. i’m getting there step by step reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 9:34 am thank you, we hope our guides can make these steps easier reply mohammed wasim akram says: aug 26, 2019 at 6:35 pm a great collection of plugins i myself use 5 plugins from this list on my business website and wp smtp plugin is happened to be the lifesaver for my emails by protecting them from the scary spam folder reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 9:33 am thank you, glad you use some of our recommended plugins reply josh w says: aug 26, 2019 at 6:29 pm great article & thanks for breaking this down. saves a lot of time not having search thru all those plugins when you guys set me on the right path. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 9:32 am thank you and you’re welcome, glad our article could be helpful reply tioluwaunique says: aug 26, 2019 at 1:46 pm hi ! good and helpful write up reply wpbeginner support says: aug 26, 2019 at 1:51 pm thank you, glad you like our writeup reply vicki apple says: aug 24, 2019 at 6:47 pm thank you guys, so much for all of your advice. to a newby, it’s so great to have so much help. i’m looking for “something”, i don’t even know if it’s a plug-in. maybe you can point me in the right direction. i’d like for people to be able to access documents that can be filled out online, and submitted. like job applications, contracts, and other things like that. thanks, so much. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 26, 2019 at 10:43 am it may vary based on your specific needs but you would want to take a look at wpforms reply harsh says: aug 23, 2019 at 5:54 am thanks for awesome post reply wpbeginner support says: aug 23, 2019 at 9:47 am you’re welcome, glad you liked our post reply vivek kumar chauhan says: aug 21, 2019 at 12:09 pm such a wonderful article for the proper knowledge about word press thanks & keep going reply wpbeginner support says: aug 22, 2019 at 9:24 am thank you for your kind words reply yk says: aug 2, 2019 at 6:02 pm good day, i want to create a membership website and i want my customers should be registered by group by group and each each of them should have account. please help me am new reply wpbeginner support says: aug 5, 2019 at 10:53 am for what you’re wanting you would want to take a look at membership plugins that we recommend here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/5-best-wordpress-membership-plugins-compared/ reply mike ston says: jun 14, 2019 at 5:22 pm do you guys have an article that lists the plugins used on this website? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 17, 2019 at 11:17 am we have our blueprint page you can take a look at here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/blueprint/ reply divya khaneja says: jun 10, 2019 at 5:33 am thank you so much for the detailed list! must have really taken you a while to compile such a comprehensive list. it was really helpful and i found at least 6-7 plugins here that i can use to increase the functionality of my website. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 10, 2019 at 1:24 pm glad our list could be helpful reply wendy says: jun 7, 2019 at 11:29 am lets say i have a couple online businesses, is there a plug in to add custom tabs (not just for reviews and specs) or a banner at the top of the web page to redirect traffic? thank you! reply wpbeginner support says: jun 7, 2019 at 3:56 pm depending on how your theme is styled you could use the menu to point to your different sites if that’s what you’re wanting. reply karbarwp says: jun 7, 2019 at 6:34 am nice article … thanks a lot reply wpbeginner support says: jun 7, 2019 at 10:22 am thank you, glad you liked our content reply thomas says: apr 19, 2019 at 6:22 am i use wpforms for contact forms, yoast for better seo and neuronto for ai translation on my wordpress reply wpbeginner support says: apr 19, 2019 at 11:08 am thanks for sharing the plugins you’re using reply dennis derrick says: apr 15, 2019 at 5:17 pm hi guys what do you recommend for creating wordpress cloning and creating staging websites for testing and development purposes? have you tried wp staging or duplicator plugin? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 16, 2019 at 11:20 am we normally recommend duplicator for moving/copying a site: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-move-wordpress-to-a-new-host-or-server-with-no-downtime/ reply michelle says: apr 3, 2019 at 10:33 pm i’m looking for a press room plugin where we can have on site articles, links to articles elsewhere about us, images to download and more. suggestions? thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 4, 2019 at 11:21 am rather than a plugin, you would normally want to manually create that type of page depending on how you want it styled reply acha mercy says: apr 2, 2019 at 10:12 am please i need a plugin that will enable me to create a chat forum for my site. when there can be an interaction or discussion where every member can contribute. what plugin can i use. need a free one, still in the leaning process. and please, thank you, i have follow you guide and have completed my blog, i want to start adding all the needed plugins. thanks a lot reply wpbeginner support says: apr 2, 2019 at 11:45 am for options for forum plugins, you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/5-best-forum-plugins-for-wordpress/ reply nate says: mar 17, 2019 at 8:56 pm i want to build a website where a user inputs data and i report it through tables and graphs. what plugin would i need to use? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 1:31 pm unless i hear otherwise, we do not have a specific plugin to recommend for this at the moment. we will certainly keep an eye out for possible options. reply sue says: mar 4, 2019 at 12:11 am what plugin do you recommend to add in a video…i am wanting to reference a ted talk video on my site reply wpbeginner support says: mar 4, 2019 at 2:07 pm you should be able to embed a video without a plugin using the method in our article: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/how-to-easily-embed-videos-in-wordpress-blog-posts/ reply merle kahn says: feb 23, 2019 at 8:40 pm i want to create a professional blog with four features: 1) comments section; 2) subscription service; 3) professional bio; and, 4) email address for me on the blog. which plug-ins do i need? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 25, 2019 at 2:55 pm comments are on wordpress by default, for the other questions you may want to take a look at 4 in the list, and our other articles: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-add-an-author-info-box-in-wordpress-posts/ and https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/how-to-create-a-free-business-email-address-in-5-minutes-step-by-step/ reply shaker says: feb 15, 2019 at 1:08 pm amazing, really helpful articles you are always providing us with <3 reply wpbeginner support says: feb 18, 2019 at 12:00 pm thank you reply robby mccullough says: feb 4, 2019 at 3:45 pm hey wpb, just wanted to say thanks so much for including beaver builder on this list. much appreciated! reply wpbeginner support says: feb 5, 2019 at 10:39 am glad we could feature your helpful plugin reply fargo says: jan 31, 2019 at 2:34 am nice article. will surely help me in setting up my new website reply wpbeginner support says: jan 31, 2019 at 11:32 am thank you reply rizwan says: jan 30, 2019 at 3:07 pm hello sir.. i need function for my website somthing like finding workers and connecting them.. can you suggest me pluging reply wpbeginner support says: jan 31, 2019 at 10:38 am for what it sounds like you’re wanting, you would want to make a web directory: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-create-a-web-directory-in-wordpress/ reply henny vlug says: jan 20, 2019 at 11:02 am what is the reason that you don’t mention the plugin contact form 7? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 22, 2019 at 4:30 pm we prefer using wpforms which is why we recommend it. reply phil says: jan 10, 2019 at 4:01 pm i notice that you dont mention jetpack, what are your thoughts on this often used plugin? i have built a couple of sites but am still a relative newb at this reply wpbeginner support says: jan 11, 2019 at 12:53 pm jetpack’s primary purpose is to connect to wordpress.com which is why they are not in this article reply magray says: jan 10, 2019 at 5:44 am very nice information as i am wp beginner and i very impressed . reply wpbeginner support says: jan 10, 2019 at 11:57 am glad our content could impress reply emily says: jan 9, 2019 at 5:37 pm for months now, i have not been able to paste in the pictures of tarot cards (a lot of them) that are vital to my blog which is about phrases and words they mean in a sentence. it won’t paste in no matter where i get the images from. there is a ‘long way’ they can do this – very time consuming, and we could not even do that at first. none of these plug-ins mention graphics. is there a solution to our problem? i am suggesting having the blog redone by a professional and getting my own server. (the site is severely hacked by experts.) reply wpbeginner support says: jan 10, 2019 at 11:20 am is there an error message you are receiving? you may want to try the troubleshooting steps in: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/beginners-guide-to-troubleshooting-wordpress-errors-step-by-step/ reply divakar says: jan 9, 2019 at 5:57 am wordpress consists a number of plugins which provide unique features and this articles listed most preferred plugins. thank you reply wpbeginner support says: jan 9, 2019 at 11:43 am glad we could share our recommended plugins with you reply caroline says: jan 8, 2019 at 11:00 am you did not mention a plugin for mobile device compatibility and speed for loading/viewing. can you advise, please? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 9, 2019 at 10:48 am at the moment we would recommend a responsive theme rather than a specific plugin to make your theme mobile friendly which is why it was not included in this article reply suz says: jan 8, 2019 at 2:08 am hi, i need to lock my website content (ecommerce site) however as this will be a temporary measure so i can build my customer email database; i don’t want to install ( and spend money) on a plugin. which plugin do you recommend that is safe & suitable with wordpress/ woocommerce/divi themes? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 8, 2019 at 10:52 am it depends on what you mean by lock your content. if you want to have a maintenance mode you could use: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-put-your-wordpress-site-in-maintenance-mode/ reply eulises quintero says: jan 8, 2019 at 1:59 am i seriously love your articles, every time i don’t know how to solve something -i’m a wordpress beginner- i just google my concerns and you’re always on the top results. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jan 8, 2019 at 10:50 am glad our articles can help you out reply rochelle says: jan 8, 2019 at 1:48 am this is great! i use a few of these already, but will definitely check out memberpress and learndash – i have been on the lookout for a good review for these types of plugins. thanks for the info! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 8, 2019 at 10:49 am hope the recommendations help you decide on plugins to use reply jason gomes says: jan 7, 2019 at 11:08 pm i am confused as why u never mentioned w3total cache which is everyone’s all time favorite cache plugin reply wpbeginner support says: jan 7, 2019 at 11:46 pm hi jason, w3 total cache is good too but we believe wp rocket and wp super cache are better options. reply « 1 2 3 4 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.