menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: fatherhood, featured, relationships & family brett and kate mckay • october 10, 2019 last updated: january 8, 2020 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went it used to be that when my kids would come home from school, i’d ask them the two questions parents have been asking their children since the dawn of mandatory education: “what did you do in school today?” and: “how was your day today?” their answers to these queries were as invariable as the rising and setting of the sun: “nothing” and “good.” i was bugged by those content-less replies, but i don’t know why i expected anything different. after all, that’s what i told my mom when i was a lad and she asked me what i’d been up to. i really do want to know what’s going on in my kids’ lives and what they’re learning at school; i’d like to have slightly more expansive conversations with them. so i figured there had to be a better way to get them to open up when we’re hanging out at the end of the day. and indeed, there is. a few ground rules don’t barrage them with questions right away. think back to when you were a kid and your parents hit you with a ton of questions about school as soon as you walked through the door. it was annoying. you just wanted to decompress and play some snes while eating a dunkaroo rather than getting the third degree about your day. well, your kid probably feels the same way. so give her some time to relax a little instead of going into “how was your day?” questions as soon as she gets home from school. of course, if you don’t work from home like me, you probably won’t see your kids until you’re done with your day at the office. in that case, dinnertime will be a good chance to catch up on how your children’s day went. (here are some more tips for getting the most out of family meals.) keep it open ended. don’t only ask “closed” yes or no questions, which have a tendency to shut down the conversation. instead, ask more open-ended questions that elicit more expansive answers; these usually begin with what, how, and why. don’t ask for a blow-by-blow account of their day. imagine if someone asked you “so what was the first thing you did at work? and then what did you do? and then what did you do after that? and after that?” you’d want to karate chop them in the throat. most of what you do at work is boring and repetitive, and not something you want to recount to someone else. well, your kid feels the same way about school. so don’t ask for a blow-by-blow rundown of his day because it usually doesn’t change all that much. instead, focus your questions on anomalies he experienced that day (suggestions on that below). try again later if they’re not engaging. if, despite your best efforts, your kids aren’t engaging in conversation, abort mission and try again later. they probably don’t want to talk right then, but maybe they’ll want to later. better questions to ask your kids about how their day went below is a list of questions that i’ve experimented with and gotten good mileage from when asking my kids about their school day. i’ve found that focusing questions on anomalies elicits the most response; it’s that kind of stuff that sticks out in their memory and that they enjoy recounting. so ask your kids questions about weird, funny, awkward, or unique moments that happened during their day. what was for lunch? (people like to talk about food and kids are people. this single question rarely fails to elicit five minutes of chatter from my kids about how gross or good the school lunch was that day.) what was the funniest thing that happened today? did someone get in big trouble at school today? what did they do? did you make a new friend today? what do you like about them? (this question is probably best suited for younger kids. if you’re asking a 13-year-old if they made new friends that day, you’re probably going to get eyerolls.) what did you do at recess today? who did you play with at recess? what special classes (i.e., art, music, pe) did you do today? what did you notice today at school that other people probably didn’t notice? was anyone kind to you today? how were you kind to others? were you able to help someone today with a problem? were any of your buddies not at school today? do you know why they were gone? did anything weird or embarrassing happen today? what would you change about school? what did you like best about today? what was the easiest thing you did today? what was the hardest thing you did today? who do you sit next to in class? tell me about them. what’s something new that you learned today? what’s something new you did today? did your teacher or classmate give you any compliments? got any big field trips coming up? who is your favorite teacher this year? (good for older kids who have multiple teachers.) who is your least favorite teacher this year? what’s one thing you’re grateful for today? were you brave today? how? related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// 18 at-home date ideas how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy