skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 23 best coaching wordpress themes for coaching & mentoring 2020 23 best coaching wordpress themes for coaching & mentoring 2020 march 6, 2020 colorlib theme collections 0 comments are you a coach or web designer looking for the best coaching wordpress theme? we have got you covered! here you will find the best themes for business, life, nutrition, personal, executive, leadership career coaches. do you find it hard to set goals and achieving them in a specific timeframe? or do you wish to identify the objects that hinder you from reaching your goals? if you do, then you probably need a coach to help you focus on your goals. coaching is a process that aims to improve performance whether personal or business. there may be various training methods, guidance, that a coach may extend so an individual can maximize performance and accomplish goals. thus, coaching aims to improve skills in order to raise competence. these coaches and mentors provide highly supportive roles to individuals who seek guidance and training to make some form of significant change within their lives. and today, you can find a lot of coaching services on the internet ready to help unlock a person’s potential and accelerate their performance. if you happen to be one of them, then these coaching wordpress themes are unmatched. wordpress is not just popular in the market but is also the leading platform among other cms. well, with its ability to make websites more competitive, robust, secure and easy-to-use it deserves to win the crown. consequently, you can find lots of wordpress themes that you can trust your business with which will bring you a step closer to success. here you can find numerous wordpress themes that will definitely improve credibility and online presence as a coach. in this list, you can choose which theme suits your personality as a coach or mentor. each theme aims to provide the best marketing solution to your career or business, so popular plugins, lots of shortcodes and ample widgets are added to boosts their performance. check out these coaching wordpress themes and see which ones you ought to obtain. coaching wp – popular coaching wordpress theme coaching wp is a speaker and life coach wordpress theme that has a stunning, flexible design perfect for speakers, mentors, trainers, therapists, and coaches. it contains 9 homepage demos that features easy and quick installation via the one-click install. coaching wp integrates various plugins, widgets, and shortcodes too that are proven to elevate performance. since mobile traffic plays a vital role in the success of your website, this theme ensures that you will acquire that strategy. the theme is also fully responsive which renders sharp and seamless contents on different devices. as it is possible to offer online coaching services, coaching wp enables you to provide an e-learning site quickly and easily. that is much possible with the learnpress plugin. moreover, it also enables you to sell anything on your site through the woocommerce plugin integration. more info / download demo efor efor is a coaching and online course wordpress theme that has 4 amazing demos. these demos have a clean and minimal design that features a one-click demo install. it is packed with many features that you will love including a minimalist yet elegant design. with efor you can easily attract clients as you grow your email list. moreover, you may sell courses online through the woocommerce plugin that makes selling an easy task. efor has a powerful live customizer that lets you see the flaws on your layout and design then correct them as much as possible before going live. this fast loading theme gives you the chance to extend visibility as it is built with seo optimization in mind. therefore, you can be sure that your website with efor will be search engine friendly. if you wish to create stylish pop-ups with minimal effort, it’s very easy to implement that using efor. you can build pop up with any layout through drag and drop option as well. more info / download demo mentor mentor is a personal development coach wordpress theme that is ideal for a mentor or coach. it has 2 different demo styles – top navigation and side navigation. whatever you need to consider, these are all good enough for such a premium theme. basically, this theme integrates the wordpress plugins that boosts design and functionality. apparently, mentor has an eye-catching copy on the hero header since it is the one that visitors see upon visiting your site. on that spot, you can catch attention and can induce lead generation. this theme also has a nice layout for displaying features and services. for the about section, you can be clearer as you present your goals and how you were able to manage yourself despite the trials you’ve gone through. you may also motivate them by reading your newsletters. since plugins are useful they are integrated into the theme including woocommerce, wpbakery page builder, bootstrap and so much more! more info / download demo bridge bridge is a resourceful, intuitive, and practical coaching wordpress theme best for different kinds of websites. it’s actually a multipurpose theme with over 400 massive and elegant demos. as the installation process can be hard and complex, bridge doesn’t want you to experience that. instead, it embraces the one-click install feature for quick and easy theme installation. yet, if that still won’t work for you, you can access the step-by-step video tutorials for an effective guide. with a comprehensive admin panel, editing your content would be a lot easier and faster. for amazing transition effects, bridge adapts the smooth css3 animation and ajax transition animations. since the importance of social media advertising is unrivaled, this theme ensures that you can take advantage of this effective advertising efficiently via social media integration. it’s also retina ready and fully responsive to acquire great mobile traffic. more info / download demo betheme betheme is another great and grandeur multipurpose theme that fits to be in these coaching wordpress themes. it comes with 450+ prebuilt websites with a lightweight package of 6 mb on the latest version. with just a single click you can now enjoy using the theme for your coaching website. thus, you won’t have a hard time dealing with the installation process. on top of that, plugins, 200+ shortcodes, shortcode generator and widgets are included in the theme to bolster its performance. that’s not all, it has layout configurator for building custom layouts and assign to different pages. the theme is also optimized for speed – codes are well-written and images are optimized to yield a fast blazing website. it’s also seo optimized so being visible on the top pages is much possible as well. other features include unlimited sidebars, unlimited colors, unlimited google map styles and so much more! more info / download demo healthflex healthflex is one of the advanced and resourceful coaching wordpress themes that you ought to enjoy. it comes with 7 ready-to-use, prebuilt websites that will help you build medical-related websites, yoga studio, dental and health coach. indeed this is a complete solution to your health-related coaching websites. having this theme for your site, you can easily complete the pages and layouts as you drag and drop elements. if you wish to sell different health products you may always do so as it is fully compatible with the woocommerce plugin and ecwid shopping cart plugin. healthflex also has extensive theme options to help you tweak the settings of your website. you may also implement the color scheme you want to apply as this theme has unlimited color variation options. moreover, this theme has clean and valid codes thus it helps acquire high ranks at search engines. other amazing and useful integration includes mailchimp, contact form 7, google maps, twitter and flickr apis. more info / download demo health coach here’s health coach a coaching wordpress theme for a personal fitness trainer. with this theme, you can create a beautiful, stunning and modern portfolio for your services. thus, you’ll open greater opportunities for your business or personal website in just a few clicks away. built using bootstrap and redux framework, health coach is a better option for an innovative website. this theme has powerful plugins integrated so it can serve as an intuitive and ideal solution for coaching sites. apparently, this theme is compatible with the wpbakery page builder for crafting layouts and designs with ease. it’s also compatible with the woocommerce plugin so you won’t have difficulty in setting up a functional and beautiful online shop in no time! meanwhile, health coach also placed significance on the typography of the theme as it utilizes the font awesome icons, 800+ google fonts and more! more info / download demo leadinjection leadinjection is a modern, clean and minimalist theme that can be used for coaching and consulting businesses. with the business coach landing page, this theme suits to be in these coaching wordpress themes. it comes with 12 adorable and easy-to-use homepage layouts that look great on all devices. with the lead modal plugin, you can effectively generate leads for your business to stand out! it also comes with an opt-in form so you have ample options as well on how to display the lead generation form. it’s built with compatibility to wpbakery page builder so you can easily build pages via the drag and drop. it also uses the slider revolution for displaying awesome content with a nice and elegant slider. it’s built using bootstrap so you can expect this theme to render mobile-first design on various devices. as videos make an awesome and effective advertisement, this theme integrates the youtube video too. it also integrates the google map for awesome transportation directions and finding your locations. more info / download demo tribe coach tribe coach is a feminine coaching wordpress theme that has a clean, minimal and straightforward design. in case you need a theme that will cater to your feminine website, this theme is ready to lend help. tribe coach has the essential features you need to fully create and manage a coaching website. it comes with lead capture forms for greater and easier conversion. the theme is compatible with the woocommerce plugin for selling workshops, courses, ebooks and services that are related to coaching. in order to easily customize the theme, tribe coach utilizes the front end live customizer to achieve out-of-the-box designs. in addition, tribe coach has unlimited color scheme possibilities, 600+ google fonts, 8 block combinations and be able to choose from full width to boxed layout. what’s more? to add and build instant credibility and exhibit level of expertise, you can display client testimonials on the website. more info / download demo success success! this is a word that many entrepreneurs love to acquire. of course, we always want to be successful in what we do. but if you need a coaching theme for your business, you might as well be interested in success! it’s a business and professional coaching services wordpress theme that has a clean and modern design. it’s built with amazing features and plugins so it can help you stand out in the competition. basically, success lets you have a gorgeous and creative yet mobile-first website as it uses the bootstrap framework. if you’d like to build a website feeling like a pro, then you can opt for this theme. it’s also crafted with compatibility to wpbakery page builder for easy page building – drag and drop manner. for an awesome display of contents, you can have it displayed stylishly with the layerslider plugin for a nice and attractive slider along with animations. it’s also seo optimized for making your website search engine friendly. lastly, you may also sell whatever items you want to sell as it is integrated with the woocommerce plugin. more info / download demo pj pj is a responsive and powerful coaching wordpress theme that’s best for a professional life coach, business advisor, consultant or agency. its clean and contemporary design is ready to represent your career and reveal your unique services. pj contains 3 outstanding homepage layouts or you can easily build your own pages with the powerful wpbakery page builder. even if you don’t know how to code, you can build pages with the privilege to pick the elements you just need. that’s possible via drag and drop feature. with the tons of customization options, you’ll surely have unlimited possibilities. that’s not all, pj also contains dynamic hover effects, html/css3 animation effects for a more visually appealing website without compromising the functionality. thanks to the plugins, custom widgets and comprehensive shortcodes you can now have a beautiful website with promising features to enjoy with. additionally, essential prebuilt pages are also included in the package to make it more interesting. these include pricing table, team page, coach profiles, services and more! more info / download demo educon have you been searching for the best theme that suits your coaching services? with educon, you can build not just a user-friendly website but a functional and minimalist one. it’s an education theme that fits well for coaching services. as it integrates the tutor lms plugin, it’s easier to launch a website for individual educators, training institutes, schools, coaching centers, and any other type of academies. with its comprehensive list of functionalities, you can easily manage student’s or learner’s performance. it comes with 3 homepage variations that you can choose from. they all have different layouts and elements used in the homepage but if you wish to customize them or create your own that’s also possible with the wpbakery page builder plugin. with educon, you can easily showcase the wonderful services you want to offer to your trainees. it’s also seo friendly and mobile-first so it’s easier to access your website regardless of the device audience use. more info / download demo eastend eastend is a tool that you can utilize if offering visa consulting services. this wordpress theme comes with various predefined page layouts and amenities that will put you right on track. with the clean and stunning design, eastend easily caters to different branding directions and regulations. and if you would like to modify it, you can do that, too, with elementor. the latter unlocks the visual editing process with the method of dragging and dropping. additionally, eastend also includes various features and other special elements for a striking solution that takes zero effort to make it a reality. different inner pages, contact form, google maps integration, blog and all these other amenities are what you will find in the eastend kit. get things going now for a smart outcome. more info / download demo picwik picwik is a coaching wordpress theme with outstanding core features and an array of more goods. if you are ready to boost your potential through the roof, promote your services with picwik. you can start the process with the one click demo data importer and start immediately. once ready to take things to a different degree, use the drag and drop page builder and perform customization tweaks and improvements according to your meticulous taste. you can easily tailor picwik to your taste. other specialties include contact form 7, parallax background, social media, online courses and slider revolution. it also offers different payment methods, supports bbpress and allows you to customize both the header and the footer. picwik is responsive and mobile-ready, too, as well as seo-friendly and fast loading. your website will operate flawlessly for years to come. more info / download demo finance do you need assistance in managing your finances? you probably need a consultant to help you with that matter. for financial, brokerage, coaching, business planning and consulting, it’s best to have the ideal website. in that case, why not consider finance? it’s an accounting, finance and consulting business theme built using wordpress. it contains 12 unique demos all dedicated to improving business performance. if you pick this for you site, it wouldn’t require so much time in setting it up as it allows you to install the theme in just one click. packed with carefully selected features, finance will truly help you display the services you’re most expert with. it’s also very easy to use so you won’t have problems with the layout customization, google charts, typography and colors. apparently, finance has 500+ google fonts, custom icons and fine colors to choose in order to achieve the best settings. it’s also compatible with the woocommerce and bold builder. more info / download demo life coach if you want to adapt marketing strategies that work best for businesses these days, you better put up a user-friendly website. in this set of coaching wordpress themes, you’ll be able to create the ideal portfolio for your coaching career. life coach is a coaching theme that will help release your full potential. it comes with 4 unique demos that are quick and easy to install and have the complete set of tools for any professional coach. moreover, it integrates powerful plugins, 5 custom widgets, 7 custom post types, 18 custom shortcodes and many other essential elements. basically, life coach is fully compatible with the events calendar which features animated counter, events map, events shortcode and buy ticket link. as testimonials are extremely important for the success of any business, life coach ensures that you can well display testimonials in an engaging manner. that’s possible through the testimonials slideshow or carousel. the blog, podcasts, videos and team pages are carefully crafted to maximize website’s visibility. more info / download demo organic food if you’re a nutritionist, fitness coach or a health coach, having an exposure online will help maximize business or develop a career. here’s organic food, a coaching wordpress theme that is fully responsive, retina ready and easy-to-customize. it comes with 9 adorable, ready-to-use homepage layouts or you can easily create your own through the bold builder plugin. it has a comprehensive options panel where you can efficiently change elements, apply unique transitions, add distinctive typography and other options you want to implement. for changing the header, menu, content and footer layouts, there are also ample options that you can combine to yield an out-of-the-box design. as color schemes play a great role in branding, organic food ensures that you can apply your own color scheme easily. while those elements are significant, organic food also embeds the google charts as it fully supports the visualizer, wordpress charts and graphs plugin. moreover, this theme offers the boxed layout or the full width for the portfolio. it also comes with a left and right sidebar option. more info / download demo health coach most people these days, work hard to the extent of squandering health. but this shouldn’t be! and in order to keep you well, a health coach’s expertise is an important thing to learn. if you’re a health coach with great experience, you may acquire the best theme from these coaching wordpress themes. health coach is ideal for fitness, health, personal, or life coaching website. having a mobile-first website will be more significant these days than ever as most people are using smartphones. therefore, you can improve reach and remove barriers to success. health coach lets you enjoy building your website as it utilizes the king composer pro that’s also lightweight and extremely powerful. the slider revolution plugin allows you to display contents with cool animations, effects and best quality using attractive sliders. if you wish to change the look and feel of your website, it’s also easier to implement using the real-time preview wordpress customizer. more info / download demo cosine if you’re a businessman who wants to share effective techniques to other entrepreneurs, you might want to check cosine. it’s a training, coaching wordpress theme that offers a wide variety of features. basically, headers play vital roles in the website’s success, and cosine understands its significance hence it offers 4 awesome header layouts that you can take advantage of for your site. with the robust page builder this theme embraces you can create stunning web pages without coding skills required. thanks to the wpbakery page builder, building the pages won’t be a headache. the only limit could be the creativity that’s in you in order to create more possibilities. it also has the live preview wp customizer for switching from one style to another, uploading logo, changing the color scheme, set menu position, switch font and edit background. there are also premium sliders that will help you create stunning and responsive image gallery through the slider revolution. cosine is also seo friendly that is essential for obtaining high ranks on search engines. more info / download demo psychologist some people are gifted with skills on how to improve the mental states, cognitive, emotional and behavior. here’s psychologist a therapy and counseling theme that suits to be in these coaching wordpress themes. it comes with 3 useful demos with interesting features, pages and functionalities. apparently, psychologist has a beautiful online appointment for booking and management. it has an intuitive interface and informative layout that looks fully responsive and retina ready. as it is built with compatibility to wpbakery page builder, you won’t really need to learn to code before you can set up a website with your own preferences. moreover, the slider revolution is added to craft elegant sliders along with awesome transitions. the powerful framework that exists in this theme includes shortcode builder, custom theme options panel, media content manager, and many other useful frameworks. more info / download demo runcrew if you have the best coaches for health and fitness, it’s easier to advertise your club or group as long as you have an online portfolio. and these coaching wordpress themes are here to assist you in finding the best. here’s runcrew, a wordpress theme that’s designed for all kinds of athletes, sportsman, trainers, coaches, runners, sportsmen and all healthy lifestyle enthusiasts. it contains 2 homepage layouts and other useful pages that are fully mobile optimized. if you wish to create your own layout, you may do as you desire as runcrew integrates the wpbakery page builder. while that plugin offers exceptional features, swiper sliders and slider revolution also impress the audience with stunning sliders for different contents. with regards to widgets and shortcodes, runcrew has a bunch of these useful tools hence improving the look and feel of the site is a lot easier. from, social media widgets, reviews, social icons, to advertisement, etc, this theme has got it all for you! more info / download demo life coach and psychologist a professional-looking website with good functionality can do great to your career or business. if you need a theme for your coaching career then these coaching wordpress themes are valuable. life coach and psychologist is a great theme to consider for modern life/business coaches and trainers, individual psychology therapists, diet and nutrition consultants. it comes with 2 homepage layouts that look good on different devices. the theme features online appointments through the booking and management feature. as people nowadays love the convenience of online applications, this theme will make your business more competitive. life coach and psychologist is a theme that makes use of the plugins and shortcodes to boost the theme’s performance. it’s built with valid html5 and css3 codes and is also easy to install, run and update. for the layout, you can opt for the boxed or full-width layout. furthermore, the slider revolution and swiper slider enable you to create beautiful sliders for different types of contents. more info / download demo welldone if you’re a health enthusiast and you want to lend a hand to other people to follow your pursuit, then make sure you have the best website to tell them where to start! here’s welldone, a coaching wordpress theme that is ideal for a healthy lifestyle coach, corporate fitness coach, jogging trainer business or health store organization. it has 9 beautiful and engaging homepage layouts that you can trust your content with. it has most of the features that a coaching website must have so it’s a lot easier for you to manage the business and reach goals. as plugins extend the functionality of the theme, welldone never ignores adding them. from beautiful sliders, you can trust slider revolution and swiper slider; wpbakery page builder for amazing drag and drop page building; woocommerce for selling products and more, which are just a few of the plugins this theme integrates. apart from that, there are also widgets and shortcodes that are ever ready to enhance the theme as well. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. businesscoachcoachinghealth coachnutrition coachpersonal trainerwordpress themes share this share tweet pin it share related posts most powerful sports and fitness wordpress themes it is hard to imagine anyone's life without a sport. modern citizens of the earth… 13 best wordpress taxi booking themes 2020 building a taxi service booking website and need a framework to start? these wordpress taxi… best forex trading wordpress themes to start a successful venture in the last few years, online forex trading has turned out to be one of… best and most creative photography wordpress themes for your professional portfolio isn’t that great photography exists? the way to capture pressure moments and save it for… 23 cryptocoin, ico & cryptocurrency wordpress themes 2019 cryptocurrencies are still much of a fuss these days. if you happen to be a… 2019 best pinterest-style wordpress themes for your website or blog with plenty of pinterest-style websites popped up recently, it’s no wonder the demand on pinterest-style… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: top 10 wordpress saas themes for your digital business next post: 27 best security company wordpress themes 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×