wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 24 best medium-style wordpress themes 24 best medium-style wordpress themes last updated on january 12th, 2018 by editorial staff 129 shares share tweet share pin medium is a popular blogging platform which offers a clean design optimized for readability and user engagement. however due to the restrictions of medium, most savvy journalists choose to use wordpress. in this article, we will share the best medium style wordpress themes, so you can have the look and feel of medium while having the power of wordpress. creating a medium-style blog using wordpress medium is a popular publishing platform where you can instantly publish your articles. however, you don’t technically own your website because medium has the ability to shut it down for any reason. for details, see our comparison of wordpress vs medium. that’s why most savvy journalists and bloggers use wordpress. we recommend using the self-hosted wordpress.org because it comes with the all freedom and features that wordpress is known for. see our comparison of wordpress.com vs wordpress.org). to start a wordpress.org website, you’ll need a domain name and wordpress hosting account. we recommend using bluehost. they are one of the officially recommended wordpress hosting providers, and they’re offering wpbeginner users a free domain + 60% off. once you have signed up for hosting, see our step by step guide on how to start a wordpress blog for complete set up instructions. that being, let’s take a look at some of the best medium-style wordpress themes that you can use on your website. note: some of these themes may not look exactly like medium. however, they follow the same design practices like clean typography, enhanced readability, lots of white space, minimalism, and clutter free layout. 1. medium medium is a wordpress theme designed for bloggers, writers, and publishers. it features a three column layout on the desktop and a single column layout on mobile and tablet devices. it is designed to work out of the box with fewer theme options. you upload custom logo, choose accent colors, add custom css, and more through customizer. it supports all media formats like images, video embeds, and photo galleries. it is super easy to use and includes a getting started guide to help you start writing without struggling with theme setup. 2. simfo simfo is a wordpress blogging theme with clean white spaces and beautiful typography. it has a beautiful featured content slider on the top and a filterable grid of your content below it. other noteable features include 8 color schemes, multiple post layouts, social media icons, footer widgets and more. it has a custom theme options panel that will help set up your website quickly. 3. suisen suisen is a minimalist wordpress theme suitable for blogs, portfolio, artists, and news websites. it has a clean black and white layout which uses roboto mono font for unique typography. it includes a widgetized homepage layout, which allows you to just drag and drop widgets to setup homepage. it includes custom widgets and lots of customization options in live customizer. it works with all popular page builder plugins and can also be used to add an online store to your website. 4. elegant elegant is a beautiful responsive wordpress theme suitable for lifestyle blogs, vlogs, and writers. it comes with a powerful drag and drop page builder which allows you to easily edit pages and create your own layouts as well. it includes multiple layouts for your posts, multiple header styles, beautiful image filters, and a portfolio section. all theme options are neatly organized which makes it quite easy to use for beginners. 5. corner corner is a wordpress theme for creative professionals with a minimal layout that allows you to showcase more of your content without any clutter. it is ecommerce ready and allows you to use any colors you want. with a widgetized layout and custom widgets, you will be able to easily setup your homepage in minutes. it includes support for social media integration and works with tested with all major wordpress plugins. 6. the chatter chatter is a medium style wordpress theme suitable for magazine websites, blogs, and portfolios. it comes with 3 slider styles, multiple color schemes, different header styles, and multiple layouts. for typography it allows you to choose different custom fonts that work great with the design. it also has a drag and drop page builder, 1-click demo installer, and a custom theme options panel for quicker setup. 7. monochrome monochrome is a medium style wordpress theme with a minimalist approach to design. it uses a simple black and white design with lots of white space and crisp typography. the simplicity makes your content and images pop out and creates a more enjoyable reading experience. it is built on genesis theme framework and includes custom headers, widgetized homepage, four widget areas, and full woocommerce support. it also includes templates for pricing and landing pages. 8. eagle eagle is a beautiful choice for a minimalist portfolio wordpress theme, a blog, or lifestyle website. its homepage features a welcome message on top followed by masonry grid of portfolio items or your blog posts. it includes support for google fonts, contact form plugin, templates for about us and a separate blog page. it comes with 1-click demo installer and an easier theme options page. 9. maker pro maker pro is a genesis child theme with intense focus on readability and usability. it looks stunning on all devices and screen sizes, which makes it perfect for personal blogs, portfolios, and magazine websites. it includes custom header, full width page template, full width cover images, and beautiful headings. it works out of the box and theme setup is quite straight forward. 10. latest latest is a minimalist wordpress theme for authors, magazine websites, and online stores. it features beautiful homepage designs that put your product or content in front and center. it has a beautiful blog template where you can put featured posts and pages on the top. it handles all your photos and videos gracefully and beautifully displays them. despite many features, it is very easy to use and install. 11. rikke rikke is a beautifully designed free wordpress theme for blogs, magazines, and authors. it has a clean black and white design with collapsible navigation menus on top. it includes color selection, font options, custom widgets, blog options, and more. all theme options are neatly organized under live theme customizer. 12. themin themin is a clean minimalist wordpress theme suitable for multi-author websites, blogs, and magazines. it features a collapsible navigation menu and search feature on top, which is followed by an optional hero image with your call to action. it has multiple layouts for single posts and blog page. it also includes full width page template that you can use with any page builder of your choice. theme setup is quite beginner friendly with a custom settings page and live customizer support. 13. writr writr is a free medium style wordpress theme for writers and bloggers. it uses a simple two column layout with navigation and sidebar located in the left-column. it has 6 color schemes turquoise (default), blue, green, grey, purple, and red. it has beautiful icons for post formats and support for author bio box. it is translation ready and can also be used with page builder plugins if you need landing pages. 14. satchmo if you are looking for a medium like minimalist wordpress theme for podcasting then check out satchmo. crafted with care and attention to details, it would make your podcast episodes fun and easier to listen. it has beautiful layouts to display podcast episodes, a section to add featured guests, hosts page, and more. its audio embed looks great on all devices. for quicker installation it has 1-click demo install and simpler theme setup. 15. wisteria need a free minimalist wordpress theme for your website? take a look at wisteria. this simple black and white theme features a black navigation menu on a white background. it uses beautiful typography and it is perfect for blogs and news websites. it uses a simple two column layout, with basic theme customization features. it just works out of the box and would be great if you just want to quickly start writing. 16. aesthetic if you need medium like readability with more styling options, then you’ll like aesthetic. it is a wordpress theme for lifestyle, fashion, and personal websites. it includes unlimited color choices with different article listing styles like list, grid, masonry, multi-column, and full-width. it is woocommerce ready and comes with a page builder plugin as well. for easier setup you can use the 1-click demo installer or start from scratch using theme options panel. 17. baskerville named after the renowned baskerville typeface designer john baskerville, this beautiful free wordpress theme is focused on elegant typography in a modern grid layout. it uses wisdom pro and roboto fonts throughout site-design. it comes with infinite scroll support, grid and list layouts, like functionality for posts, and beautiful author bio box section. 18. pepper+ need a simpler design but with all the features of multi-purpose wordpress themes? pepper+ does exactly that. it comes with multiple website designs to choose from and a powerful modules based drag and drop interface. this theme got everything sliders, portfolio, photo galleries, contact form, pricing tables, event countdowns, and more. you can install any of the available designs with a click and then just use drag and drop to edit your pages. 19. journalistic journalistic is a medium inspired wordpress theme for long form articles, storytelling, and magazine websites. it features a wide two column layout, a sticky featured content column, and a collapsible sidebar with navigation menus. it ships with 19 color schemes and you can also define your own colors. it has integrated support for beautiful typekit fonts. it is quite easy to use with 1-click demo installer, custom theme settings page, and live customization support. 20. author author is a simple and free wordpress blog theme for authors. featuring a two column layout, this theme is designed for better readability with engaging user experience. it features author photo on top followed by site description and social icons in the sidebar. the content column uses large headings and featured images to make your content pop out. it has simple setup and works out of the box with minimal settings required. 21. everly everly is another great minimalist wordpress theme with simple black and white design. optimized for readability, it uses magazine style layout to feature your most important content on the top. it includes 4 homepage and blog layouts, different header styles, 6 post formats, instagram feed, and more. it has native areas to display ads on your website. 22. flat flat is a free wordpress theme with a beautiful and unique design. it has a two column layout with a narrow sidebar on the left and a wide column for your blog posts. it uses beautiful icons in navigation menus, large featured images, and works with all popular wordpress plugins. 23. author pro author pro is designed as a wordpress theme for authors, writers, and publishers. it offers an enhanced readability experience with subtle colors, white space, and beautiful crisp typography. built on top of genesis framework, it ships with genesis author pro plugin which allows you ro create a book library within your site to attractively display book details in single and archive views as well as any widget area. it is very easy to use and works out of the box with very little effort. 24. publisher publisher is a beautiful wordpress theme for magazines, multi-author websites, and blogs. it comes with multiple layout choices like masonry grid, two column blog layout, unique backgrounds for each post, and more. it beautifully handles your media and displays them as featured image on top. it also includes beautiful templates for photo galleries, videos, and other content types. inside you will also find a getting started guide to walk you through theme setup process. we hope this article helped you find the best medium like wordpress theme for your website. you may also want to see our step by step wordpress speed and performance guide for beginners. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 129 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 1 commentleave a reply darryl mckitchens says: jan 16, 2018 at 6:42 am yes it is a new year…i new yet i’m not…owned my domain for about 9 years and tried off and on to get it launched or designed with no luck. i have now invested lots of money into a home marketing company using wordpress platform and link post blogging, i am even more lost and confused. i hope i can learn. thank you… darryl reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) bluehost coupon get over 63% off on bluehost packages and a free domain of your choice. weglot coupon get 15% off on weglot multilingual plugin for wordpress. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.