skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 24 best job board wordpress themes and plugins to create awesome job sites 2020 24 best job board wordpress themes and plugins to create awesome job sites 2020 january 22, 2020 aigars theme collections 312 comments today we would like to present a list of the best job board wordpress themes. these themes can be used for general job listing websites, as well as some niche sites like freelancer job listings and even job boards for babysitters. these themes feature front-end submission, location-aware search, resume creators, visual builders and much more. i have been involved in the recruitment business for the past 6 years working for several international recruitment companies. my main duties were building and maintaining job portals and i know the tiniest aspects of this business. job portal business has been taken away by large sites like glassdoor, indeed, linkedin, and google jobs but there are loads of niches where relatively small websites are performing really well. the main problem with small players is to keep the website up to date, error-free and always add new functionality requested by users. this is incredibly hard if you are using a custom-built system and you have no idea how to write your own code. this is where wordpress comes into the game. you can use various plugins and themes and set up your job listing with ease and always keep it updated as theme and plugin developers release updates. this is something you can’t do with custom-built systems or it will cost a fortune to do so. below you can find the best job board wordpress themes i was able to find. these themes share the same premium design and functionality and they are highly customizable to suit your needs. most of these wordpress themes are created as dedicated job board solutions but some of theme can be used for a recruitment agency, business, directory, classified and other functional and creative websites. jobseek for those who wish to create a professional job board website, jobseek is an ideal choice. this accessible and versatile wordpress theme has a charming design and an intuitive interface. the admin ui will showcase jobs in a very organized manner. it can also display information regarding the employer’s company. the user will have access to certain actions such as delete, edit, and mark filled. basically, if you can navigate a simple wordpress interface, you will find it easy to work with jobseek. employers may post available jobs on the page’s frontend. information such as the job’s location and description will be included. by writing to an email that is provided, job seekers will be able to contact the potential employer. it is also possible to preview posts before publishing. the paid listing function is enabled by the prolific woocommerce plugin. with ease, the client will be able to set up his/her site, and there is no need to tamper with the code. while browsing, both employers and freelancers can bookmark offers that spark their interest. a nifty testimonial management system allows customers to review your business, and share their opinion regarding the service. more info demo workscout workscout is an excellent wordpress theme for job board websites. it can be used by any employment agency recruiter, given that it is extremely user-friendly. no advanced programming knowledge is required. page construction is intuitive, given the inclusion of the visual composer plugin. this amazing tool uses drag and drop technology, allowing you to construct a fully-functional site in a matter of moments. workscout does its best to accommodate all devices, regardless of their screen size. job posts can be showcased on tablets, smartphones, laptops and desktop computers. for novice users, an informative online documentation source was made available, and it is being constantly updated. it explains every feature in detail, offering to guide you through the setup process. this theme can be further extended via add-on features. for example, the resume manager tool makes it easier for users to register and upload their resume. for those who do not have a professional resume, some useful pre-designed forms are available. site owners can upgrade to using wc paid listings. this makes it easier to implement paid listings and turns any site into a fully-formed online job market. for those who wish to sample workscout for free, a live preview is available! more info demo jobify jobify is a clean, modern flat design inspired wordpress theme designed for job boards. it features a famous 5-minute install to get your site up and running in no time. it is a fully customizable theme with unlimited color and font variations and plenty of other options to tweak your website. this is my favorite theme on this list and its incredible popularity shows that thousands of users agree with me. more info / demo demo jobcareer jobcareer is a brilliant solution for webmasters looking to establish a modern and functional job board website with a plethora of advanced capabilities at your fingertips. this theme is packed with helpful plugins and amazing, professional-quality template pages and websites that make initial website creation, design and setup an intuitive, breezy matter accomplished through a drag and drop interface. jobcareer really starts to shine when it comes to the special elements and features designed specifically for job board websites. capacities such as geolocated job searches, job and email alerts or application deadlines make jobcareer amazingly flexible in its reach, and features like the resume manager, profile completion and indeed job importation make it a delight to work with. free job submissions and a fully operational woocommerce payment system are included for your utmost convenience. social app integration is smoothly executed with exclusive buttons and icons, while helpful application tracking capabilities let users stay on top of their job offers and bids. start building your job board website today, with jobcareer! more info / demo demo recruitment agency recruitment agency is a responsive and adaptable wordpress theme. as it is built on bootstrap you will get it with tons of automatic shortcodes. recruitment agency fits great on businesses and individuals that need their profile exposed. companies or potential employers will think of it as a hybrid. it is a congruent mix between a directory and an application system. recruitment agency divides pages in listings according to what you look for to hire or to apply. it has a very simple and one task-oriented concept with a professional look. it has unlimited portfolios and blog layouts. files such as cv or resumé, support documents and such, can be uploaded on different formats. the layout can be set in either boxed or full-width design. recruitment agency is developer-friendly: it doesn’t require coding knowledge to set. it also features beautiful photo and video galleries with slider revolution. it even uses the amazing essential grid to arrange sections, maps for job locations and more. page builder is flexible and easy to craft visual composer from drag & drop. layout, in general, is responsive with unlimited colors, sidebars, and the parallax effect. have a look at it and start your own recruiting! there are no limits with recruitment agency! more info demo staffscout staffscout is a jaw-dropping wordpress job board theme with all the necessary and then some. whether you would like to create a niche or a general job board, you can make it happen like a champ with the use of staffscout. for your information, you do not really need to be an expert coder nor designer to have a chance and successfully create such a platform. with staffscout, you get the job done comfortably, thanks to all the ready-to-go material and drag and drop page building technique. from resume submissions and job singles to stunning job listings, user dashboard and eight different homes, all this and more is what you get in the staffscout kit. other specialties of the excellent staffscout are testimonials, various header styles, compatibility with all modern plugins and devices, pricing tables and workflow shortcode. get a job board live with ease by employing staffscout now. more info / download demo cariera cariera is the expert on job boards, stats and listings. try it out with 2 homepages and a one-click demo import. cariera is built with tons of premium quality plugins such as visual composer. fast and responsive, it adapts to all screens and browsers with retina-ready quality! you will also get it with high speed performance enhancement that makes it is lightweight. it uses seo and w3c valid html. cariera lets you customize every single layout aspect. it has unlimited colors, moveable sidebars and multiple headers/footers. it also features slider revolution to make amazing galleries and media set up. cariera is a theme built for almost any scenario that a work environment might throw. it counts with woocommerce and wpml for purchase and translations aspects respectively. cariera serves as the perfect place for companies and job aspirants to connect. it also offers job search filters and cv submissions, and uses contact form 7 to build forms and has a child theme. you will receive full documentation and support as user. create the best environment for job/employers search! use cariera! more info demo injob injob is a wordpress theme dedicated to the professional and career sector. it is a fast and seo-friendly creation with performance optimization from inwavethemes. injob is widget-ready and responsive in both design and code. it comes with customizable elements on builder, video backgrounds, 2 homepages and parallax. you will get to play with a layout that adapts to boxed and wide format as well as mobile screens. with injob you get visual composer, unlimited sidebars for posts and 1000+ web font icons. it also has slider revolution integration to set up slides for free. injob gives you handcrafted options such as front admin reviews or e-mail notifications. it also gives employer management for apps. it has incredible panel/dashboard options for both companies to professional individuals. injob is also connected to social media and even offers social network login. this a tool thought for the best practical options to increase employment chances. to conclude, injob aspires to make your website the greatest job portal of your area worldwide. just look at what customers have to say with their 5 star rating! get it now with the best support and constant updates on the way! get injob! more info demo jobsdirectory jobsdirectory is a beautiful wordpress theme for employment agency and job recruitment websites. you can receive fees for every post and submission, given that jobsdirectory has implemented several options for monetization. the site home page can feature a fully-functioning map, a citywise banner, or a slider. a color customizer is available, allowing users to create a page that matches their vision. when hosting your own job recruitment platform, you cannot afford to alienate mobile users. thankfully, jobsdirectory is entirely responsive, capable of displaying every page section on tablets, desktop pcs, smartphones and laptops. given that this theme is optimized for search engines, your posts and jobs will not be overlooked by google. in addition, some free seo plugins were incorporated: all in one seo, wordpress seo by yoast, and google xml sitemaps. meanwhile, wpml support allows the customer’s brand to reach an international audience. it is possible to establish sites in a variety of languages, catering to people from across the world. in terms of monetization, you are able to create superb online stores via the popular woocommerce plugin. jobsdirectory also has a job submission form that supports personalized fields. this assures that each employer can include his/her own criteria. more info demo jobmonster with jobmonster, site administrators can first review every single job that is intended for publishing. every website must display relevant information while managing to avoid page clutter and bad design choices. thankfully, this theme has a beautiful design and is able to combine practicality and aesthetic appeal. it connects employers with potential employees and facilitates their interactions. for those who wish to learn everything about its features, an informative and comprehensive documentation source is offered. customers can also benefit from regular updates via email or facebook notifications. should you encounter any issue, do not hesitate to contact the excellent support team. this job theme is hard-coded, requiring no extra plugin costs or wp job manager input in order to function. customers can expect no less than full accessibility, with no programming knowledge or third-party support required. both the candidate and the employer can administrate everything in the front-end, via the versatile dashboard. jobmonster is very easy to install and manage, making it the ideal choice for those who are not very tech-savvy. both experts and newbies can enjoy this wonderful wordpress job board theme. accessibility is crucial for any site that aims to thrive in the business world. this theme allows users to access your posts instantly, regardless of their whereabouts. indeed, your site will be fully responsive, capable of working on mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones. jobmonster has 9 homepage variations, while the other offers a job search feature. as a customer, you can determine the number of potential job posting plans. meanwhile, the woocommerce plugin facilitates payment and other transactions! more info demo jobengine jobengine combines powerful tools with simple user experience. this theme packs simple job management tools that allow you to sort listings based on location, job type, category, and other parameters. jobengine is optimized for dozens of payment options and currencies to bring your listing website globally. the theme also has plenty of other cool features that i haven’t seen on other themes, and it is worth to see their demo to understand how well-crafted it is! more info / demo nokri nokri is one of the best wordpress job board themes you can currently get your hands on. it is responsive, flexible, extendable, easy to use and practices all the latest trends and regulations. nokri makes sure all your users experience skimming your website and finding the ideal employments hassle-free. start building your cracking job board website with any of nokri’s predesigned demos and take to your advantage all the benefits it has in store for you. fantastic job filters feature, sell different types of job packages, individual dashboards for both individuals and companies and oh so many other assets make nokri one of the top in its category. some of the additional goodies of nokri are account verification, invoice generation, notifications and job bookmarks. make things your way with nokri. more info / download demo kormosala to connect employers with employees and freelancers the professional way, create a job board with kormosala. you can start your fresh project with any of the three home page designs that will get you rocking the online space right away. whether you are in the process of establishing a niche or a general job board web platform, with kormosala, you can make it happen comfortably. the features and functions of this tool go through the roof, making sure everyone gets the most out of it. the list of features is endless. from jobs with maps, application deadline and tracking to front-end submissions, profile and resume builder, functional search and paid and free listings, kormosala takes care of it all and plenty more. for your information, you can expect even more goodies to drop with upcoming theme updates. more info / download demo fitsica fitsica is a relatively niche wordpress job board theme for finding yoga, fitness and gym jobs. with the five available home pages and multiple more inner layouts, fitsica ensures an instant start of something new. the quickest way to building a page would be to just mix and match the available and call it a day. even if you stick to the default look, the outcome will be jaw-dropping. yes, fitsica is that amazing. moreover, fitsica includes elementor editor, offering you to edit and customize it, so it matches your style precisely. advanced search, resume manager, bing and googe maps, company feed, email alerts, email verification, you name it, fitsica comes with loads of unique features for you to take to your total advantage. more info / download demo workup crafting the ideal job board website need not be a complication. in the day and age, we live in, you have all the tools and materials predefined and ready-to-go. with workup, you have a chance to avoid starting from square one altogether. you do not even need to have coding and design skills. with the elementor editor, everyone becomes a professional, even if building his or her very first website. on top of that, you also get a horde of page layouts and other ready-made designs out of the box. in the package, you get featured jobs, cv and cover letter, job alerts, paid and free listings, as well as a convenient dashboard for employers and employees. different shortcodes for quick integration, search engine optimization, smooth page transitions and an option to apply with facebook are other treats of workup. more info / download demo careerfy create your custom job board website with careerfy and help connect employers with employees. when the tools and solutions are at your fingertips, you can do so much for the community and bring into being a valuable and must-visit online platform. with careerfy, you get different demos to choose from and all the other pre-made elements that will help you complete the job board building process fast and reliable. fantastic job detail, candidate and employer pages, woocommerce subscriptions, handy filtering feature and application deadlines are some of the countless traits and assets of the extraordinary careerfy. moreover, enjoy job alerts, geo-location search function, job submission, resume builder and 3-rd party job imports, the list of goodies careerfy has at your disposal is vast. but to truly understand the power of the tool, make sure you take a peek at careerfy’s live preview page and get blown away. more info / download demo capstone look no further and start creating your custom, advanced and super rewarding job board website with capstone, one of the best wordpress themes around. for employers and candidates, this is one fine, easy to use and super convenient page canvas that will get you rolling on the web sooner rather than later. capstone keeps things very simple and minimal, making sure all the details are put right in front of your platform’s visitors, distraction-free. the traits and other special qualities of capstone are loads that makes sure that you get the most out of the theme and sort out all your ideas seamlessly. application and job management, resume page, website monetization, register and login forms and drag and drop feature to name a few, these and loads more functions is what you get with capstone. more info / download demo petsitter petsitter is an awesome theme for building a job board website for publishing pet-related employment opportunities. this theme is compatible with any version of wordpress and comes with great theme features perfect for setting up a full-fledged job listing website. it also comes with demo content and psd files to help you create a job board website with just a few clicks. petsitter is built based on bootstrap with less/css for more convenient theme customization. it also adjusts intuitively on any type of device. what’s more, it comes available inbox & full-width layouts, offers 7 footer widget layouts, unlimited color options, advanced font and icon features and tons of powerful shortcodes. petsitter supports multiple post formats for displaying different types of content on your blog, including galleries, images, videos, quotes, and links. it also includes a job search form in the slider section. this theme is also redux framework-based, to help you transform petsitter into a unique job listing website. in addition, it provides theme customizer support for a real-time appearance editor. this theme is fully integrated with wp job manager, resume manager, advanced google map, woocommerce and contact form 7. more info / download demo babysitter babysitter is a fully functional and highly customizable wordpress theme for creating professional babysitter portals. this theme packs loads of features like unlimited color variations, shortcodes, demo content and outstanding support. you can also tweak this theme to use for general job listing websites, thanks to its powerful theme options. more info / demo freelancerengine freelancer engine packs dozens of features to make your own custom and professional freelancer website similar to upwork, freelancer.com and many others. it is fully responsive and looks awesome on any device. this theme has a built-in payment gateway for easier transactions and advanced sorting algorithm for easier browsing through listings for both job postings and freelancer profiles. freelancer engine is an advanced piece of software, and you will never guess that it is built on top of wordpress! it is powerful by default, but developers offer plenty of extensions for this theme to make it even better. this is the right theme if you are serious about trying to compete against big brands between freelance marketplaces! more info / demo job board job board is a modern, clean and sharp wordpress theme from templatic. it has everything you’d need in a fully functional job board, like front-end submissions, automated payments, various page and email templates, google maps integration and dozens of other useful features. additionally, it has a coupon system integration, for special promotions. you can change or personalize all of these features via the simple yet powerful theme options. want to know more? check job board for yourself, and find out what it can do for your future website! more info / demo wpjobus wpjobus is a 3 in 1 wordpress theme that can be used for building job portals, personal resumes or company profiles. it is fully responsive and includes brilliant features such as google maps and ajax search. with its sophisticated directory function, you are able to put up a professional job board portal where consumers can browse, search and filter entities like jobs, companies or resumes. you can use this theme as a single page resume where you can present your professional background, education, skills and a lot more. on the other hand, you can use wpjobus as a website template for the company profile website. full review of wpjobus theme you can read here. more info demo wordpress job board plugins wp jobboard (plugin) wp job board is built with a wide range of capabilities. its applications are numerous, and the number of people that are adopting it is growing each day. wp job board is very easy to install – all it takes is just one click! you can add it to new websites, or those that are already up and running. wp jobboard is compatible with all wordpress themes—a perfect addition to your website, regardless of your taste in themes! its numerous social media and search engine optimization measures help you gain more followers on your site. what’s more, extensive and informative documentation is available, explaining everything you need to know. also, you may contact the plugin’s support staff via email with a response time of <24 hrs. there are 3 main hurdles that stop people from creating job boards, and this plugin has eliminated all of them: it is low-cost, easy-to-use, and user-friendly! undoubtedly versatile, this plugin can prove to be very effective. wordpress job board plays well with other third-party services such as stripe and paypal. a detailed review of this plugin is available here. more info / demo wp job manager (plugin) wp job manager is a powerful and easy-to-use job board plugin, compatible with most wordpress themes. you can integrate it with any existing wordpress website, and wp job manager will work just fine! it is a highly customizable and flexible platform with various payment and listing options. there are numerous add-ons available to further extend its functionality with custom resume pages, different payment integration, paid listings, social login and much more. looking to create a professional-looking job board? then wp job manager is the right solution! more info / demo which of these job board wordpress themes did you like these best? let us know in the comment section below. while there you can also leave us some suggestions what other functionality needs to be added for job board themes to make them perfect. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. classifiedsdirectoryfreelancerjob board share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts 20 best wordpress themes for personal & freelance blogging blogger is the profession of the new millennium. even though this occupation is rather new,… blog like a pro: 2019 best blog templates to create a professional blog that stands out investing in a professionally-looking theme is important, but what if you’re just a beginner finding… 21 awesome wordpress nightclub themes for clubs, bars, pubs & more 2020 looking for a nightclub wordpress theme to shine a light on your nightclub? these amazing… 50 best wordpress themes to launch a website for modern women being a modern woman means to wear a lot of hats. you could be a… stunning wordpress video themes for embedded and self-hosted videos 2020 the list of the best wordpress video themes to create the next youtube, vimeo or… most beautiful design and photography wordpress themes in this roundup, you will find the most beautiful design and photography wordpress themes that… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (122) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 35 masonry grid style wordpress themes inspired by pinterest to build awesome blog or portfolio – 2020 next post: 23 free personal wordpress themes for personal, portfolio and cv websites 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×