wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » the ultimate guide to boost wordpress speed & performance the ultimate guide to boost wordpress speed & performance last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 27k shares share tweet share pin do you want to speed up your wordpress site? fast loading pages improve user experience, increase your pageviews, and help with your wordpress seo. in this article, we will share the most useful wordpress speed optimization tips to boost wordpress performance and speed up your website. unlike other “x best wordpress caching plugin” lists or generic “x tips to speeding up wordpress” tutorials, this article is a comprehensive guide to wordpress performance optimization. we tried to cover everything from why speed is important, what slows down your wordpress site, and actionable steps that you can take to improve your wordpress speed immediately. to make it easy, we have created a table of contents to help you navigate through our ultimate guide to speeding up your wordpress site. table of contents basics of wordpress performance why speed is important for your wordpress site? how to check your wordpress website speed? what slows down your wordpress website? importance of good wordpress hosting speeding up wordpress in easy steps (no coding) install a wordpress caching plugin optimize images for speed wordpress performance optimization best practices keep your wordpress site updated optimize background processes use excerpts on homepage and archives split comments into pages use a content delivery network (cdn) don’t upload audio/video files directly to wordpress use a theme optimized for speed use faster plugins fine-tuning wordpress for speed (advanced) split long posts into pages reduce external http requests reduce database calls optimize wordpress database limit post revisions disable hotlinking and leeching of your content use lazy loading if needed use dns level website firewall fix https/ssl errors without plugin use latest php version why speed is important for your wordpress site? studies show that from 2000 to 2016, the average human attention span has dropped from 12 seconds to 7 seconds. what does this mean for you as a website owner? you have very little time to show users your content and convince them to stay on your website. a slow website means users will potentially leave your website before it even loads. according to a strangeloop case study that involved amazon, google, and other larger sites, a 1 second delay in page load time can lead to 7% loss in conversions, 11% fewer page views, and 16% decrease in customer satisfaction. on top of that, google and other search engines have already started penalizing slower websites by pushing them down in the search results which means lower traffic for slow websites. to sum it all up, if you want more traffic, subscribers, and revenue from your website, then you must make your wordpress website fast! how to check your wordpress website speed? often beginners think that their website is ok just because it doesn’t feel slow on their computer. that’s a huge mistake. since you frequently visit your own website, modern browsers like chrome store your website in the cache and automatically prefetch it as soon as you start typing an address. this makes your website load almost instantly. however, a normal user who is visiting your website for the first time may not have the same experience. in fact, users in different geographical locations will have a completely different experience. this is why we recommend that you test your website speed using a tool like isitwp’s wordpress speed test. it is a free online tool that allows you to test your website’s speed. after you run your website speed test, you might be wondering what’s a good website speed that i should aim for? a good page load time is under 2 seconds. however, the faster you can make it, the better it is. a few milliseconds of improvements here and there can add up to shaving off half or even a full second from your load time. [back to top ↑] what slows down your wordpress website? your speed test report will likely have multiple recommendations for improvement. however, most of that is technical jargon which is hard for beginners to understand. learning what slows down your website is the key to improving performance and making smarter long-term decisions. the primary causes for a slow wordpress website are: web hosting – when your web hosting server is not properly configured it can hurt your website speed. wordpress configuration – if your wordpress site is not serving cached pages, then it will overload your server thus causing your website to be slow or crash entirely. page size – mainly images that aren’t optimized for web. bad plugins – if you’re using a poorly coded plugin, then it can significantly slow down your website. external scripts – external scripts such as ads, font loaders, etc can also have a huge impact on your website performance. now that you know what slows down your wordpress website, let’s take a look at how to speed up your wordpress website. importance of good wordpress hosting your wordpress hosting service plays an important role in website performance. a good shared hosting provider like bluehost or siteground take the extra measures to optimize your website for performance. however, on shared hosting you share the server resources with many other customers. this means that if your neighboring site gets a lot of traffic, then it can impact the entire server performance which in turn will slow down your website. on the other hand, using a managed wordpress hosting service give you the most optimized server configurations to run wordpress. managed wordpress hosting companies also offer automatic backups, automatic wordpress updates, and more advanced security configurations to protect your website. we recommend wpengine as our preferred managed wordpress hosting provider. they’re also the most popular one in the industry. (see our special wpengine coupon). [back to top ↑] speeding up wordpress in easy steps (no coding) we know that making changes to your website configuration can be a terrifying thought for beginners, especially if you’re not a tech-geek. but don’t worry, you’re not alone. we have helped thousands of wordpress users improve their wordpress performance. we will show you how you can speed up your wordpress site with just a few clicks (no coding required). if you can point-and-click, then you can do this! install a wordpress caching plugin wordpress pages are “dynamic.” this means they’re built on the fly every time someone visits a post or page on your website. to build your pages, wordpress has to run a process to find the required information, put it all together, and then display it to your user. this process involves a lot of steps, and it can really slow down your website when you have multiple people visiting it at once. that’s why we recommend every wordpress site use a caching plugin. caching can make your wordpress site anywhere from 2x to 5x faster. here’s how it works. instead of going through the whole page generation process every time, your caching plugin makes a copy of the page after the first load, and then serves that cached version to every subsequent user. as you can see in the graphics above, when a user visits your wordpress site, your server retrieves information from a mysql database and your php files. it then puts it all together into html content which is served to the user. it’s a long process, but you can skip a lot of it when you use caching instead. there are a lot of good wordpress caching plugins available, but we recommend using either wp rocket (premium) or wp super cache (free) plugin. check out our step by step guide on how to install and setup wp super cache on your wordpress site. it’s not difficult to set up, and your visitors will notice the difference. many wordpress hosting companies like bluehost and siteground offer caching solutions as well. siteground supercacher if you are using siteground then login to hosting cpanel and enable supercacher under ‘site improvement tools’. after that, you will need to install and activate the sg optimizer plugin in wordpress to manage supercacher settings. bluehost caching if you are using bluehost, then go to my sites » performance section to turn on caching. if you’re using a managed wordpress hosting provider, then you don’t need a caching plugin because it is built-in and turned on by default. bonus: you can combine caching plugins with a web application firewall like cloudflare or sucuri for maximum performance boost. [back to top ↑] optimize images for speed images bring life to your content and help boost engagement. researchers have found that using colored visuals makes people 80% more likely to read your content. however, if your images aren’t optimized, then they could be hurting more than helping. in fact, non-optimized images are one of the most common speed issues that we see on beginner websites. before you upload a photo directly from your phone or camera, we recommend that you use photo editing software to optimize your images for the web. in their original formats, these photos can have huge file sizes. but based on the image file format and the compression you choose in your editing software, you can decrease your image size by up to 5x. at wpbeginner, we only use two image formats: jpeg and png. now you might be wondering: what’s the difference? well, png image format is uncompressed. when you compress an image it loses some information, so an uncompressed image will be higher quality with more detail. the downside is that it’s a larger file size, so it takes longer to load. jpeg, on the other hand, is a compressed file format which slightly reduces image quality, but it’s significantly smaller in size. so how do we decide which image format to choose? if our photo or image has a lot of different colors, then we use jpeg. if it’s a simpler image or we need a transparent image, then we use png. the majority of our images are jpegs. below is a comparison chart of the file sizes and different compression tool that we could have used for the strangeloop image used above. as you can see in the chart, the image format you use can make a huge difference in website performance. for details on exactly how to optimize your images using photoshop and other popular editing tools, without sacrificing quality, see our step by step guide on how to save images optimized for web. [back to top ↑] wordpress performance optimization best practices after installing a caching plugin and optimizing your images, you’ll notice your site will start loading a lot faster. but if you really want to keep your website as fast as possible, you’ll need to use the best practices listed below. these tips aren’t too technical, so you don’t need to know any code to implement them. but using them will prevent common problems that will slow down your website. keep your wordpress site updated as a well maintained open source project, wordpress is updated frequently. each update will not only offer new features but it will also fix security issues and bugs. your wordpress theme and plugins may have regular updates, too. as a website owner, it’s your responsibility to keep your wordpress site, theme, and plugins updated to the latest versions. not doing so may make your site slow and unreliable, and make you vulnerable to security threats. for more details on the importance of updates, see our article on why you should always use the latest wordpress version. [back to top ↑] optimize background processes background processes in wordpress are scheduled tasks that run in the background of your wordpress site. following are some examples of background tasks that run on a wordpress site: wordpress backup plugin tasks wordpress cron jobs to publish scheduled posts wordpress cron jobs to check for updates search engines and other crawlers trying to fetch content tasks like cron jobs for scheduled posts and updates have minimal impact on website performance. however, other background processes like backup plugins and excessive crawling by search engines can slow down a website. for backup plugins, you need to make sure that your wordpress backup plugin only run during low traffic time on your website. you also need to adjust the frequency of backups and data that needs to be backed up. for example, if you are creating a complete daily backup while you only publish new content twice a week, then you need to adjust that. if you want more frequent backups such as real-time backups, then we recommend using a saas solution so you’re not taxing your server. as for crawling, you need to keep an eye on your crawl reports in google search console. frequent crawls that are ending up in errors can cause your website to slow down or become unresponsive. see our complete google search console guide for beginners to learn how to adjust crawl rate. [back to top ↑] use excerpts on homepage and archives by default, wordpress displays the full content of each article on your homepage and archives. this means your homepage, categories, tags, and other archive pages will all load slower. another disadvantage of showing full articles on these pages is that users don’t feel the need to visit the actual article. this can reduce your pageviews, and the time your users spend on your site. in order to speed up your loading times for archive pages, you can set your site to display excerpts instead of the full content. you can navigate to settings » reading and select “for each article in a feed, show: summary” instead of “full text.” for more details on the pros and cons of displaying summaries, see our article on full post vs summary (excerpt) in your wordpress archive pages. [back to top ↑] split comments into pages getting lots of comments on your blog posts? congratulations! that’s a great indicator of an engaged audience. but the downside is, loading all those comments can impact your site’s speed. wordpress comes with a built-in solution for that. simply go to settings » discussion and check the box next to the “break comments into pages” option. for more detailed instructions, see our guide on how to paginate comments in wordpress. [back to top ↑] use a content delivery network (cdn) remember how we mentioned above that users in different geographical locations may experience different loading times on your site? that’s because the location of your web hosting servers can have an impact on your site speed. for example, let’s say your web hosting company has its servers in the united states. a visitor who’s also in the united states will generally see faster loading times than a visitor in india. using a content delivery network (cdn), can help to speed up loading times for all of your visitors. a cdn is a network made up of servers all around the world. each server will store “static” files used to make up your website. these static files include unchanging files such as images, css, and javascript, unlike your wordpress pages which are “dynamic” as explained above. when you use a cdn, every time a user visits your website they are served those static files from whichever server is closest to them. your own web hosting server will also be faster since the cdn is doing a lot of the work. you can see how it works in this infographic. we use recommend using stackpath cdn. we have been using maxcdn on all our websites which is now also part of stackpath. it works well with wordpress websites and compliments your existing wordpress caching plugins for even faster loading times. [back to top ↑] don’t upload audio/video files directly to wordpress you can directly upload audio and video files to your wordpress site, and it will automatically display them in an html5 player… but you should never do that! hosting audio and videos will cost you bandwidth. you could be charged overage fees by your web hosting company, or they may even shut down your site altogether, even if your plan includes “unlimited” bandwidth. hosting large media files also increases your backup sizes tremendously, and makes it difficult for you to restore wordpress from backup. instead, you should use an audio and video hosting service like youtube, vimeo, dailymotion, soundcloud, etc., and let them take care of the hard work. they have the bandwidth for it! wordpress has a built-in video embed feature, so you can copy and paste your video’s url directly into your post and it will embed automatically. find out more details on how it works in our guide on embedding videos in wordpress. if you are making a podcast website with wordpress, then we recommend podcast hosting service blubrry for the best performance. [back to top ↑] use a theme optimized for speed when selecting a theme for your website, it’s important to pay special attention to speed optimization. some beautiful and impressive-looking themes are actually poorly coded and can slow your site way down. it’s usually better to go with a simpler theme than to choose a theme that’s bloated with complex layouts, flashy animations, and other unnecessary features. you can always add those features using quality wordpress plugins. premium wordpress theme shops like studiopress, themify, cssigniter offer themes that are well coded and optimized for speed. you can also check out our article on selecting the perfect wordpress theme for advice on what to look for. before you activate your new theme, see our guide on how to properly switch your wordpress theme for a smooth transition. [back to top ↑] use faster plugins poorly coded wordpress plugins often load too much bloat whether your site needs it or not. this increases your page load speed and slows down your site. to help you choose the best plugins, we often publish our expert pick of best wordpress plugin showcases. we pay special attention to ease of use, user experience, and most importantly performance. following are some of our picks for the most common wordpress plugin categories. wpforms – fastest and most beginner friendly contact form plugin for wordpress. soliloquy – if you want to add sliders to your site, then soliloquy is the best wordpress slider plugin in terms of performance and features. envira gallery – photo gallery plugins can also slow down wordpress. we ran the tests and found envira gallery to be the fastest photo gallery plugin for wordpress. shared counts – social media plugins load additional scripts and not so gracefully. shared counts is one of the fastest social media plugins for wordpress. apart from our own recommendations, you can run your own tests. simply run speed tests before and after installing a plugin to compare its impact on performance. [back to top ↑] fine-tuning wordpress for speed (advanced) by using the wordpress optimization best practices and basic speed tips listed above, you should see a big improvement in your site’s loading times. but every fraction of a second counts. if you want to get the very fastest speed possible, then you’ll want to make a few more changes. the following tips are a little more technical, with some requiring you to modify your site files or have a basic understanding of php. you’ll want to make sure to backup your site first just in case. split long posts into pages readers tend to love blog posts that are longer and more in-depth. longer posts even tend to rank higher in search engines. but if you’re publishing long-form articles with lots of images, it could be hurting your loading times. instead, consider splitting up your longer posts into multiple pages. wordpress comes with built-in functionality to do that. simply add the <!––nextpage––> tag in your article where you want to split it into next page. do that again if you want to split the article on to the next page as well. for more detailed instructions, see our tutorial on post pagination – how to split wordpress posts into multiple pages. [back to top ↑] reduce external http requests many wordpress plugins and themes load all kinds of files from other websites. these files can include scripts, stylesheets, and images from external resources like google, facebook, analytics services, and so on. it’s ok to use a few of these. many of these files are optimized to load as quickly as possible, so it’s faster than hosting them on your own website. but if your plugins are making a lot of these requests, then it could slow down your website significantly. you can reduce all these external http requests by disabling scripts and styles or merging them into one file. here’s a tutorial on how to disable your plugins’ css files and javascript. [back to top ↑] reduce database calls note: this step is a little more technical and will require basic knowledge of php and wordpress template files. unfortunately, there are a lot of poorly coded wordpress themes out there. they ignore wordpress standard practices and end up making direct database calls, or too many unnecessary requests to the database. this can really slow down your server by giving it too much work to do. even well-coded themes can have code that makes database calls just to get your blog’s basic information. in this example, every time you see <?php, that’s the start of a new database call: 
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" dir="<?php language_attributes(); ?>">
<head profile="http://gmpg.org/xfn/11">
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="<?php bloginfo('html_type'); ?> 
charset=<?php bloginfo('charset'); ?>" />
 you can’t blame theme developers for that. they simply have no other way to find out what language your site is in. but if you are customizing your site using a child theme, then you can replace these database calls with your specific information in order to reduce all those database calls. 
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" dir="ltr">
<head profile="http://gmpg.org/xfn/11">
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
 review your parent theme for instances like this that can be easily replaced with static information. [back to top ↑] optimize wordpress database after using wordpress for a while, your database will have lots of information that you probably don’t need any more. for improved performance, you can optimize your database to get rid of all that unnecessary information. this can be easily managed with the wp-sweep plugin. it allows you to clean your wordpress database by deleting things like trashed posts, revisions, unused tags, etc. it will also optimize your database’s structure with just a click. see our guide on how to optimize and clean up your wordpress database for improved performance. [back to top ↑] limit post revisions post revisions take up space in your wordpress database. some users believe that revisions can also affect some database queries run by plugins. if the plugin doesn’t specifically exclude post revisions, it might slow down your site by searching through them unnecessarily. you can easily limit the number of revisions wordpress keeps for each article. simply add this line of code to your wp-config.php file. define( 'wp_post_revisions', 4 ); this code will limit wordpress to only save your last 4 revisions of each post or page, and discard older revisions automatically. [back to top ↑] disable hotlinking and leaching of your content if you’re creating quality content on your wordpress site, then the sad truth is that it’ll probably get stolen sooner or later. one way this happens is when other websites serve your images directly from their urls on your website, instead of uploading them to their own servers. in effect, they’re stealing your web hosting bandwidth, and you don’t get any traffic to show for it. simply add this code to your .htaccess file to block hotlinking of images from your wordpress site. 
#disable hotlinking of images with forbidden or custom image option
rewriteengine on
rewritecond %{http_referer} !^$
rewritecond %{http_referer} !^http(s)?://(www\.)?wpbeginner.com [nc]
rewritecond %{http_referer} !^http(s)?://(www\.)?google.com [nc]
rewriterule \.(jpg|jpeg|png|gif)$ – [nc,f,l] 
 note: don’t forget to change wpbeginner.com with your own domain. you may also want to check our article showing 4 ways to prevent image theft in wordpress. some content scraping websites automatically create posts by stealing your content from your rss feed. you can check out our guide on preventing blog content scraping in wordpress for ways to deal with automated content theft. [back to top ↑] use lazy loading if needed if you add many images, multiple video embeds, and photo galleries to your blog posts, then your site can benefit from lazy loading. instead of loading all your images and videos at once, lazy loading downloads only those that will be visible on the user’s screen. it replaces all other images and video embeds with a placeholder image. as a user scrolls down, your website loads images that are now visible in the browser’s viewing area. you can lazy load images, videos, and even wordpress comments and gravatars. for images, iframes, and videos, you can use the lazy load by wp rocket plugin. for wordpress comments see our guide on how to lazy load comments in wordpress. [back to top ↑] use dns level website firewall a wordpress firewall plugin helps you block brute force attacks, hacking attempts, and malware. however, not all firewall plugins are the same. some of them run on your website, this means attackers are already able to reach your web server before they get blocked. this is still effective for security, but not optimal for performance. this is why we recommend using a dns level firewall like sucuri or cloudflare. these firewalls block maclious requests even before they reach your website. [back to top ↑] fix https/ssl errors without plugin if you are switching your site to https/ssl, then it is likely that you may run across mixed content errors. the easiest way to fix this is by installing a plugin like really simple ssl. however, the problem is that these plugins catch all urls first, then change them to https before sending them to user’s browsers. this has a small but noticeable performance impact. you can reduce this by manually fixing all urls. for more details see our article on how to fix common ssl issues in wordpress. [back to top ↑] use latest php version wordpress is mainly written in the php programming language. it is a server side language, which means it is installed and runs on your hosting server. all good wordpress hosting companies use the most stable php version on their servers. however, it is possible that your hosting company is running a slightly older php version. the newer php 7 is two times faster than its predecessors. that’s a huge performance boost that your website must take advantage of. you can see which php version your site is using by installing and activating the version info plugin. upon activation, the plugin will show your php version in the footer area of your wordpress admin dashboard. if your website is using a version lower than php 7, then ask your hosting provider to update it for you. if they are unable to do so, then it is time to find a new wordpress hosting company. [back to top ↑] that’s it! we hope this article helped you learn how to improve wordpress speed and performance. go ahead and try out these techniques. don’t forget to test your website speed before and after implementing these best practices. you’ll be surprised these changes will boost your wordpress performance. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 50 commentsleave a reply priyanka says: jan 5, 2020 at 5:09 am thanks a lot! just followed your tips for speeding up my site (except the higher levels)) and it improved site’s performance tremendously! i caanot thank you enough reply wpbeginner support says: jan 6, 2020 at 11:35 am glad our recommendations could help reply pradip nalwaya says: nov 27, 2019 at 3:40 am thanks bhai ! today this post is very useful. i have find many post for about wp performance but today finally i got helpful post. thanks again reply wpbeginner support says: nov 27, 2019 at 10:12 am glad you found our post helpful reply laja' dekunle says: oct 24, 2019 at 12:21 pm just read and haven’t implemented. but i must commend you guys, how much your articles and videos have helped a beginner like me is immeasurable. i give you a big thumbs up followed with a very big thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 25, 2019 at 9:36 am you’re welcome, glad our guides have been helpful reply sayan de says: sep 4, 2019 at 3:35 am i am using bluehost shared wordpress hosting from your referral, my site is taking more than 4.5 sec to load. please help me sir. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 4, 2019 at 10:28 am you would want to start by following the recommendations in this article reply jane frith says: aug 28, 2019 at 1:59 am really useful article, but bits of it are beyond this wp beginner! i really need to limit the number of revisions on my posts, but am nervous about coding and changing php. can you direct me to where i might find more detail about where to enter this code, preferably with screen shots? many thanks for such a useful article. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 28, 2019 at 9:28 am you may want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/complete-guide-to-wordpress-post-revisions/#limitrevisions reply mehmet says: aug 27, 2019 at 7:06 pm thanks for amazing useful guide. we would like to make a wordpress web promoting all the cafe-restaurants, hotels and other businesses in the country. and we estimate that there will be 800,000 pages on this website (such as tripadvisor). would you suggest we do it in wordpress? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 28, 2019 at 9:26 am you could certainly create a site to do that, you would want to make sure your hosting can handle a site that large reply عدیل ثاقب says: aug 27, 2019 at 1:15 pm thanks wpbeginner, it helped me to speed up my website reply wpbeginner support says: aug 28, 2019 at 9:05 am you’re welcome, glad our guide could be helpful reply keely says: aug 26, 2019 at 11:54 pm great post. clients often don’t realise design is only one part of the big picture and that site speed is very important. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 9:50 am thank you, glad you liked our post reply imroj khan says: aug 26, 2019 at 3:09 pm my website had load speed 10sec .but when i follow some step through this article. my website load speed is 4 sec. amazing. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 9:17 am glad our article could help speed up your site reply gilly says: aug 21, 2019 at 9:10 pm great post! forgive me if this is noobie but on the shared counts, does it carry over the shares i already have? i tried using their support form but appears many submissions are left unanswered. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 22, 2019 at 9:48 am as long as you are not changing your domain the plugin should be able to pull in the current shares for your site. reply ola philips says: aug 16, 2019 at 12:20 am this article is so explanatory and helpful. plaase, does creating too much pages and much contents affects site loading speed, i mean if a wordpress site has up to 200 pages, can that slow down the loading time and i there any disadvantage of creating much pages in wordpress. because i wonder why an organisation will have up to five subdomains in one site reply wpbeginner support says: aug 16, 2019 at 11:00 am to an extent, that will affect loading time but with a decent hosting provider and a caching plugin you can normally mitigate any slowdown caused by how much content is on your site reply martin says: jul 26, 2019 at 4:54 am great guide. thank you so much for this, definitely useful for anyone who a wants to succeed on the internet. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 26, 2019 at 9:50 am glad you found our article helpful reply nate says: jul 24, 2019 at 5:35 pm hi there great info on speeding up wordpress websites. i have a dilemma. i have a lot of comments on a number of my posts, which is slowing down those posts considerably. it’s particularly dire on mobile. if comment pagination is bad for seo and slow posts are bad for seo, how do we deal with posts that have a lot of comments which is the best solution – faster post with paginated comments but duplicate content or just put up with slow loading? thanks for any insight reply wpbeginner support says: jul 25, 2019 at 11:35 am if you are using an seo plugin they should normally add a canonical tag and other recommendations as they find them to let google know about the original page without worrying about seo effects of paginating your comments reply richard c says: jul 1, 2019 at 2:31 pm boy this guide is crazy! there are a lot of great tips here. i’m definitely going to work through and upgrade my website. thanks so much! it’s gonna take some time to implement all of these, but i’m happy to have found this information. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 2, 2019 at 11:42 am glad you like our guide reply ritika says: jun 24, 2019 at 11:36 pm can i earn through upgrading my free wordpress.com site to premium? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 25, 2019 at 11:52 am on wordpress.com there are specific limitations on monetizing, you may want to take a look at our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/self-hosted-wordpress-org-vs-free-wordpress-com-infograph/ reply ahmed says: may 26, 2019 at 1:42 am hi i want to know how to let a slider my wp specific page background reply wpbeginner support says: may 28, 2019 at 2:04 pm you would want to reach out to your current theme’s support for if they would have a method to replace your page background with a slider reply zeeshan alam says: may 15, 2019 at 5:21 pm thanks wpbeginner for this useful guide, i am learning from your site whenever i have a problem i search it in your website and got help thank you reply wpbeginner support says: may 16, 2019 at 10:37 am you’re welcome, glad our guide was helpful reply neha says: may 13, 2019 at 2:10 am nice article! reply wpbeginner support says: may 13, 2019 at 2:03 pm thank you reply angelo says: apr 8, 2019 at 7:08 pm very useful tips on how to increase wordpress speed, thank you! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 9, 2019 at 11:45 am you’re welcome reply alex says: mar 23, 2019 at 12:03 am hi, i’m not sure how to configure a webs hosting server to increase speed. where can i find more info on this? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 2:42 pm for the moment we don’t have a recommended method to configure and speed up a hosting environment. reply jaya says: mar 21, 2019 at 11:46 am thankyou for all ur detail explaination, i wrote every inch of ur recomendation n set it up to my wp. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: mar 22, 2019 at 10:04 am you’re welcome reply lazos pap says: mar 19, 2019 at 9:19 am why you include the bluehost as a good web hosting service? cause so far as i know its really bad. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 2:18 pm from our use of bluehost we have not had any trouble and have had a good experience. we understand that some users may have had trouble with certain hosts and are keeping our ears out, however, not everyone has the best experience every time even with a good hosting provider. reply artem says: mar 18, 2019 at 6:27 pm thanks. but strange there is no word for amp-pages. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 1:55 pm for amp and our information on that, you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-properly-setup-google-amp-on-your-wordpress-site/ reply artem says: mar 20, 2019 at 4:45 am thank you reply wpbeginner support says: mar 20, 2019 at 10:22 am you’re welcome mohsen noori says: mar 16, 2019 at 11:06 am this article help me to speed my wordpress site. thank you reply wpbeginner support says: mar 18, 2019 at 2:19 pm glad our article could help reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.