skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » inspiration » 25 beautiful blogs using brixton wordpress theme 2019 25 beautiful blogs using brixton wordpress theme 2019 june 21, 2019 vishnu inspiration 0 comments brixton is the third best selling wordpress blog theme on themeforest in 2015. it is a perfect platform for sharing stories, experiences and news, and a reader can spend many pleasant hours on the blog. the design is creative, almost hipster like and commonly appearing with a broad header that carries a logo or avatar, or both. you can use the logo from the template anywhere on your website. the theme comes with a one click demo importer and is very customizable. in brixton, the text takes center stage with this theme, keeping all other elements minimal. you can also use google fonts on it. furthermore, the theme is completely responsive, scaling down well to handheld devices. brixton is also retina ready. the layout can be full width or boxed and 7 post templates are possible – standard, video, gallery, audio, quote and link. there is also a color picker, meaning you can change the color as you wish. you can also insert proper title tags. a slideshow is included in the gallery post format and a search box (which can be turned off) is available. audio post is possible with soundcloud. brixton incorporates instagram, facebook and twitter widgets. the pack also includes font awesome icons for social icons. instagram feed, facebook widget and social share icons can all be placed in the sidebar. the theme is built on css3 and bootstrap 3 framework. it is seo friendly, wpml ready, and fast loading. you can purchase brixton for $39 and have current and future updates, as well as 6 months of support. you can extend support to 12 months by adding $11.70. now that we have a fair idea of the features of brixton, let us look at some websites and blogs to see how the theme has been used. endulge el dorado endulge el dorado is not really the blog of one person. three individuals of varying age and perspectives write about the good, the bad, the ugly and the tasty. their varying personalities – the twenty year old who is stepping out into the world, a seen – it – all ceo who enjoys life and the average middle aged family man – contribute to keep the blog interesting. the blog uses the dark header, which turns white and sticky as you scroll down. the posts are placed in a boxed format and the sidebar devotes a fair amount of space to social buttons and instagram feed. nerd or die nerd or die is a website that keeps you upto date with all nerdy stuff. you will find streaming tutorials, design and gaming related content here. it is started by derek, who runs a youtube channel, twitch channel and the website. his goal is to create gaming related content about streaming, graphic design and web design in a way that is simple to understand. there is a helpful search box at the top in the sidebar. meanwhile, the sidebar carries his recent posts. a handy list of popular tags can assist you in your search. the second row if pop culture is the fix you need, you can consider subscribing to the second row. the original avatar of this blog is the alphabet pony and you can access the back issues of that online magazine on this blog. the blog posts are laid out in a boxed format and the borders have been shaded in a grey pattern. twitter and instagram feed fill up the sidebar along with popular posts. the blog covers a wide range of topics such as fashion, travel, film, television, pop and movie stars and more. born to diy born to diy is the personal blog of deyania munoz, a peruvian finance student, who is also keen on diy fashion. she can teach you to make stuff that looks as if it costs a bomb for much less. fashion, home decor or beauty, she dabbles in all three and shares it with you on her blog. whether it is learning to shape your eyebrows, or sewing a button or ripping your jeans, learn it from deya on her blog. get up & gallop anita means it when she says get up & gallop – both literally and figuratively. she started her own riding school which failed miserably the first time. it flourished beyond imagination the second time round. she managed to build her business, even while living life the way she wanted and sold it all for her asking price. if you want to find out how she managed to accomplish this, you can subscribe to her blog and get a free 30 minute consult. she is on a mission to help high achievers go about achieving their goal. there is a subscription form in the sidebar and you can fill it up to receive content, tips and offers. charlie king charlie king is the personal blog of the television personality charlie king. he has kept it downright simple in his blog and it appears to have been started quite recently. social media buttons, instagram and recent tweets occupy the sidebar, along with a small window to his personality in an about me box. the brick lined vertical borders all along the blog provides a nice relief to the blog content. my jordan release dates my jordan release dates is an on-line store for nike shoes and clothing. the homepage has a full-width image below the header and the rest of the page is packed with posts in multi columns without sidebar. each post carries the image of a product and a detailed description of the product. the other pages in the website display shoes, clothing and a calendar showing dates of release of future products. the credit cards accepted for payment at the store are displayed in the footer. big yellow canoe big yellow canoe is the blog of jens and anita who want to bring alive their love for the outdoors in the blog. they use the blog to keep you posted about their trips and other happenings in their life. they also share a number of recipes on the blog. you can join them on an adventure by booking a canoe trip with them. a big sized round logo occupies the central part of the header and delicious recipes are featured in the posts below. airbrush fachverband airbrush fachverband is the website of the airbrush painting association. it is a kind of spray painting and artists use it to paint on canvas or on any other object, for body tattoos and nail art. the website has a broad header, with a fairly big sized logo in it. equipment and materials used for airbrushing makes up the bulk of the imagery on this site. the events related to the association is also carried on the site. the site has also used mute colors. productividad productividad is the place where marco acero blogs on topics related to productivity and lifestyle. he draws from the ideas of experts in the field and combines it with his own experiences. you can subscribe to the blog in the sidebar and search for any topic with the help of the tags provided. the website shares useful tips on how to be more productive. it uses very little color and presents a black and white appearance. glamourously stumbling to 50 the name of the blog glamourously stumbling to 50 is displayed with stylized fonts about the silhouette of a woman. you can find it in the center of the header, giving a distinctive look to the blog. the tags and subscription option are carried in the footer, while the about me box is carried in the sidebar. this is the blog of rae, a 46 year old mother of two, who is trying to get past 50 unscathed and preparing for life after that. luke aikman luke aikman dons multiple roles of ceo, non executive director, inventor and advisor. he has advised big names like the home office and is making himself available in his blog for digital leadership, innovation and speaking. his interest lies in advising high growth startups. he is active on his blog and it is filled with interesting business stories. you can search for a post by browsing through the archives and categories in the sidebar. jawel.nl jawel.nl is the blog of a nerdy father and he writes of his parenting experiences. prospective parents will find his well categorized posts helpful. the blogs come in full detail, and in it you can find a lot of plain speaking and common sense wisdom. desmoines real estate full width image with the dark header at the bottom of the image is what you will find when you land on the desmoines real estate blog. as you scroll down, header moves to the top of the screen and turns sticky and white. real estate enthusiasts started this blog to cover all real estate information in the des moines and adjoining areas. social media buttons appear in a small sticky sidebar at the bottom left corner of the screen in the about us and featured listings page. educated quest educated quest is a blog to help you find the college of your choice. it serves as a helpful guide to students and parents to pick the suitable college. maintained by stuart nachbar, it helps them make informed decisions. from the sidebar, you can subscribe to updates, pick a keyword search from the tag cloud, share on social media, use skype or pick a post to read. through my eyes marija ristic pens down her musings in this blog. she can accept that people are different and believes that being different is good and beautiful. on her blog, through my eyes, she displays her photographs and writes about motivational stuff. her sidebar is crowded – about me, search box, social buttons, popular posts with images, subscription option, tweets and google plus – are all placed in neat boxes here. tobi adegbemi tobi adegbemi is a nigerian blogger who shares photos and stuff related to fashion. she is a geology student who spends most of her time looking at, or reading about rocks. tobi adegbemi loves to talk, share ideas and learn. she uses the blog as a place to express herself, her opinions, fitness, diet, self education and some diy. chef & song chef & song consider it an honor to be custodians of favorite foods and favorite music. they aim to bring these two together to help conversation flow in fine restaurants in north texas. there are a number of photographs of patrons having a good time in the revolution slider in the about us page. you can also see the photographs on instagram. krzysztof stronzik krzysztof stronzik has big sized passions – he wants to inspire people to follow their dreams and live to the fullest of their abilities and to be an inspiration to others. his post covers a number of categories like art, media and time management. march of reason march of reason offers a rational perspective on a variety of issues. you can find said issues under different pages relating to technology, startups, data science and philosophy. you can find the social media buttons in the sidebar, and you can follow the blog on feedly simply by clicking on the button at the bottom left of the screen. honest nomads this website helps people use the power of the internet to build a business for themselves that is not dependent on location. so, you get to live your life on your own terms. you can move about where you want, but stay connected to your business. honest nomads will show you how. metro man metro man is the blog of christian who is a student and is holding a sales job as well. he uses the blog to write about his interests – clothes, style and fashion. he has written an ebook, a style guide for men. through the blog christian hopes to equip men with style and shares tips on fashion. this blog has many sections – lifestyle, free style guides, inspiration, blog posts and good styles on offer where you can find some good deals. the treasure map the treasure map is the blog of dario who loves to dance. he also likes music, tv shows, movies. he works on photography projects. his one goal is to open his mind, to broaden his vision which he feels can be achieved by travelling. you can also find him on facebook and instagram. to conclude blogging is a very personal way of communicating with your readers and your wordpress theme must be able to help you to get your message across to your readers effectively. the layout and the minimalistic nature of brixton theme will surely help bloggers here. this does not mean that only bloggers can use brixton. it can be used for any purpose, and you may have noticed that it is used by an online store as well as a real estate agency in the examples above. do try it out and let us know of your experience with brixton. purchase brixton now thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. brixtonexample websitestheme exampleswordpress share this share tweet pin it share vishnu vishnu is a freelance writer by night, works as a data analyst by day. related posts 24 best tank top mockup templates 2019 if you are in the apparel space, a tank top mockup will come very helpful.… 17+ amazing christmas graphics to inspire you the holiday season is upon us, which means many designers are neck-deep in christmas design… 30 beautiful websites built with brooklyn wordpress theme brooklyn is the most popular one-page theme on themeforest for three years on the trot… 23 best free spiral notebook mockups 2019 these best free spiral notebook mockups call for the best presentation you can possibly imagine.… fonts are king or what is wrong with your content content is king. you’ve surely heard this fundamental truth a lot of times. for this… 32 shirt mockups for designers & clothing brands 2019 as a designer, a print shop or an apparel brand owner, you definitely need to… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: top 21 best free css3 frameworks for web development 2019 next post: the 30 best landing pages of 2019 for design inspiration we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×