skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries the content in this blog post answers about 95% of the questions i get on a daily basis via emails, snapchat messages, tweets, etc. that being said, don’t hesitate to contact me if you have any further questions and i’ll get back to you asap. after visiting 80+ countries since 2012, i’ve picked up lots of valuable knowledge and skills to make traveling safer and more efficient. my top 25 travels tips are listed below, in order, with #1 being my best travel tip and #25 being more general advice. alright, let’s get at it! 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries 1. use google maps to navigate cities i cannot tell you how many hours of time and stress this has saved me over the years. did you know that google maps works offline, even when your phone is on airplane mode? all you have to do is make sure to load a city in google maps before getting off the plane (or leaving your hotel) — and the little blue gps dot will follow you around as you wander the city. this is especailly helpful when you’re in a foreign taxi, so you can make sure to see exactly where the driver is taking you. 2. use tep to get internet access tep is the best way to get online in 100+ countries! everyone always asks me how i get my computer and phone to work abroad. i used to buy local sim cards (from a local phone provider) every time i hopped borders, which was a nightmare! now, whenever i’m not in a public wifi zone (like in a cafe or hotel), i turn on my tep portable hotspot device. tep gives me internet access in 100+ countries, and it works by using local sims to guarantee the fastest internet speeds. they even just launched a 4g model, which gives you even faster speeds! get your tep on this link 🙂 3. for booking flights, use google flights & kayak it seems like there are so many flight search engines these days, that it’s frustrating to find which ones are best. i can tell you from first-hand experience (booking 400+ flights) that google flights & kayak are the most reliable and cheapest search engines out there. google flights makes is easy to compare flight prices across various dates in a month, and kayak simply has every airline in it’s database that you can imagine. i never book a flight without searching both of them. more tips when buying flights: – delete your browser’s cookies before buying an airline ticket, because the prices usually go up when you visit multiple travel sites. – wait until midnight to book your flight beacuse there will be more of an inventory and better rates beacuse many seats are put on a 24 hour hold. – book flights in an “incognito window” of google chrome, so there are no cookies 4. for accommodations, use air bnb & booking.com air bnb is best when you are traveling with another person, or a group of people, otherwise it can be a bit expensive. i’ve stayed at more than 30 air bnbs around the world, and i’ve never had a bad experience. it’s great to stay in a local apartment beacuse it gives me a sense of “home” and makes me feel like a local! booking.com is my go-to place for booking hotels, as it has hundreds of thousands of properties worldwide. i prefer them to the others beacuse the prices are slightly cheaper than the rest, and you don’t always need to give your credit card (you can pay when you arrive!) 5. use uber whenever possible uber came in handy a lot during my south america trip. as i write this, uber is active in 76 countries, and i highly recommend using it whenever you can. the 2 main reasons why you should use uber is because it’s cheaper and safer than standard taxis. inside of the app, you have all the information of the driver and you are protected by the company should anything go wrong. 6. always use atm’s to pull out local currency when dealing with getting local currency, it’s best to pull out of an atm with your debit card at the airport. the reason being that atms always have the most up-to-date exchange rate, and they cannot rip you off. most banks do charge a fee for international atm withdraws, but i switched over to schwab bank because they reimburse me for all foreign atm fees. if you aren’t from the u.s. (schwab is only accessible for americans), then do a quick google search for banks in your country that waive foreign atm fees. try to avoid “money exchange” desks if possible, beacuse they always take a commission (even if it says “no fee”). obviously, if there are no atms around or you lost your debit card, then exchanging cash at an exchange desk is your only option. also, you should always find out what the exchange rate is before you land in a given country, so you can figure out how much cash to take out (assuming there is no wifi in the airport). 7. learn languages with duolingo & youtube vids before i visit any country, i try to at least learn the top 10 words/phrases that i can use to communicate. my favorite app for learning languages is duolingo – it works like rosetta stone with those games & quizzes, but it’s completely free! i also learn a lot of common words & phrases by watching youtube videos. you will be surprised by how much you can learn in a short period of time. if you want to get more serious, the watch movies online in the language you are trying to learn, with english subtitles. 8. the best travel backpack is the osprey porter 46l i’ve gone through 4 different backpacks over the last 4 years, and i have finally found the perfect one for me! it’s the osprey porter travel backpack bag, black, 46-liter it’s durable, has many pockets, and it’s the perfect size so you can always carry it on the plane with you. i’ve never had to pay to check my osprey bag in more than 200 flights! curious what i pack in my bag? here’s a complete list of what i bring with me on trips. 9. get a travel rewards card this is helpful when making big purchases, beacuse you can easily rack up points and redeem them for flights and hotels. i use the bank of america travel rewards card, but i’ve heard that the chase sapphire card and capital one venture rewards cards are also great. if you spend a lot of money on flights, or any other big purchases, then a travel rewards card is a great way to save money and get free flights. 10. find free wifi in hotels, mcdonald’s & coffee shops i spend 5-6 hours a day on my computer working, which means that i am in constant need of good wifi. in today’s world, you can find free wifi in pretty much every hotel, coffee shop & mcdonald’s (among many other places). another tip: for certain hotels and airports that charge for their wifi, just add “?.jpg” at the end of any url to bypass the expensive fee and use the internet for free. 11. teach english is the best way to live & work abroad i know there are many jobs that you can find abroad, such as working in a hotel or on a cruise ship, but i strongly believe that teaching english offers the best overall experience. immediately after i graduated college, i moved to south korea to teach english for 18 months, and i loved every minute of my experience. i made about $25k per year, including free housing and 4 weeks paid vacation. in order to qualify to teach english (in most countries), you need to hold a passport from an english speaking country, have any bachelors degree from a university, and obtain your tefl certification that proves your fluency in english. click here to learn more about teaching english and how to get your tefl certificate. 12. tripit is the best travel planning app tripit is an all-in-one phone application, that organizes your travel plans in one convenient place. whenever you book a flight or hotel, the booking information will automatically transfer to tripit. they even send you real-time alerts if your plane is changing gates or departing late. tripit is really the best travel app on the market, and it’s the only app i use and trust. i cannot tell you how many hours of time and stress that tripit has saved me over the last year. whenever i have an upcoming flight, i no longer have to dig through emails to find the confirmations – all i have to do is open tripit and 2 seconds later, i find out all the info that i need. 13. carry backup chargers & medicines be prepared in case your phone charger or headphones stop working. i carry a ziplock bag with extra chargers, batteries, and any other electronic equipment that i need. for medicines, you definitely want to avoid seeing foreign doctors, so carry as much with you as possible. i have medicines to protect me from a fever, cold, sore throat, diarrhea, allergies, cuts, etc. you can fit it all in my small dopp kit. 14. use first row sports to stream any live sports game online first row sports is a life saver for myself, and any traveler who is a huge sports fan! the website is technically illegal, and therefore a bit sketchy, but i’ve been using it since 2012 and never had any issues. i am actually using it right now to watch to the cubs game as i type this (i’m a professional multi-tasker)! you can literally stream live any sporting event that’s happening around world — baseball, hockey, water polo, football, archery, you name it! the website url frequently changes, so you just have to do a google search for “first row sports” and you will find the most up-to-date link. 15. travel with 1 big and 1 small backpack i always travel with 2 backpacks, a big one and a small one. that’s it. in my big bag (osprey porter 46l) – 95% of it is clothes, toiletries and backup chargers. the other 5% is a small bag with cash and extra credit cards. in my small bag – i pack everything important that i own. computer, passport, chargers, headphones, external hardrive, gopro, sunglasses, etc. here’s a list of what i bring with me in both my bags. my reasoning for carrying all my important stuff in my small bag is because it always stays in my possession. if i were to get robbed or mugged, i will throw my big bag at the taxi driver and run away with my small bag. also, don’t forget to bring little combination locks for your bag for extra protection! 16. always carry at least $500 usd with you in cash it’s a good idea to stash usd in several different parts of your bags, just in case your wallet gets lost or stolen. remember that u.s. cash is the king of currencies, as it is recognized in pretty much every country on earth. if your atm debit card isn’t working, then you have cash to exchange in the meantime. it’s also a good idea to have usd for any bribes that you may come across. also, make sure the bills are crisp with no rips or marks on them… most countries won’t accept bills that aren’t perfect. 17. smile & say hello this sounds stupid and obvious, but i’ve made a lot of friends over the years by just smiling at someone. it also makes me feel more comfortable when the locals have a good impression of me. even though 99% of the people i’ve met abroad are kind and welcoming, you never know what kind of situation you will get in. the more positivity you spread to the people, the better chances you will be safe. 18. travel with cheap, plain clothes & accessories i do most of my shopping at target and old navy. i never wear shirts more expensive than $10 and mostly wear solid color, plain clothing. why? because there’s a good chance that you may lose or damage your clothes abroad, and also, wearing “university of wisconsin” shirts makes you stand out like a sore thumb and draws unnecessary attention to you. save your expensive and flashy clothes for when you are home, and safe. i bought my watch at wal mart for $5, and i found sunglasses at a street market in bolivia for $1.75, and they both work perfectly fine when i’m on the road. 19. don’t be too cheap i was guilty of this when i first started backpacking, and almost everyone is at some point. yes, i know you are traveling on a budget (who isn’t?), but most of the time, it’s worth it to spend an extra $10 for a nicer hotel room or $5 more for better view. also, it’s worth it to take a one-hour flight for $100 than take a 15 hour bus for $30. trust me, it’s called the time value of money. yes, you spent an extra $70, but you are also gaining a full day of travel because it’s faster and you won’t feel exhausted the next day. 20. use world nomads for travel insurance it’s essential to have travel insurance whenever you leave your country’s borders. i’ve been using world nomads for a few years, and they have been really helpful for me. i was reimbursed $350 for my hospital bills when i was sick in bali, and i was also reimbursed $800 for my cancelled flight to kathmandu when the earthquake hit. world nomads is the way to go! 21. for best food, find crowded hole-in-the-wall places never walk into an empty restaurant, beacuse 9 times out of 10, there is a better restaurant nearby. if you are seeking the best local food, walk around the popular streets/areas and find a dive place with a bunch of locals feasting inside. or better yet, find a local and ask them where is the best place to eat! 22. wake up early morning time is my favorite time to explore a city. i like to get up before the people start driving to work. you will get a much different perspective by watching the city develop throughout the day, and it’s also less crowded meaning you can get shit done! also, if you are an outdoor sports lover like myself, then waking up early is the best time to do on a hike, play golf, or go on a run. it’s more peaceful! 23. always travel with copies of important documents these may come in handy, especially if you are getting a “visa on arrival” or are planning to apply for visas abroad. i carry a small, zip lock bag with the following documents: – 2x2 passport photos – passport copies (biometric page) – copies of my credit & debit cards 24. wear a money belt when necessary money belts looks like standard belts, but they have a secret zipper inside where you can stash some extra cash in case of emergency. this comes in handy more when traveling in more dangerous, off-the-beaten path countries. you can buy one on amazon for $8. 25. always be having fun plain and simple: if you’re not having fun, then you’re doing something wrong! always tired? then go to bed earlier. not enjoying the culture? then go to a different country. not happy with the food? eat something else. try switching things up to make yourself happier. *note – few links in this post are affiliate links, meaning i make a small commission if you purchase something through my link at no additional cost to you. the money that i make goes directly into my travel funds and making this website better. thank you!* about latest posts drew binsky a graduate from the university of wisconsin-madison, drew binsky has visited 190+ countries since 2012.he first caught the travel bug while studying abroad in prague, then taught english in korea, and now he's on a mission to visit every country on earth.follow his journey on youtube & instagram @drewbinsky 🙂 latest posts by drew binsky (see all) my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visited - january 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!! - july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18) - may 22, 2018 posted in travel post navigation snapchat takeovers with tripit what’s in my bag? a complete list 45 thoughts on “25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries” joanna armstrong says: march 10, 2020 at 12:38 am excellent tips, drew, thank you! there are some things here i’ve never thought about (duh), like international atm fees! also, tep; will try that! i agree with you that attitude is huge, and your smiling tip is a good one. reply sarah says: february 17, 2020 at 11:06 am thank you for sharing this info. it was valuable and motivating, reply rowan vanessa says: january 7, 2020 at 2:08 pm great blog. you shared the tips are really useful for all travelers. your guidance is helpful to me. thanks a lot for this beauty enjoying the article with me. i appreciate it very much! reply jeftine karte says: august 28, 2019 at 6:21 pm one of my favorite bloggers comes to my part of the world, southern ca, and i will be on a weekend away with my family. just my luck. enjoy! reply hardy bains says: may 15, 2019 at 4:11 pm a very useful article to read. thanks a lot for sharing this. fine work. keep it up. reply obokash.com says: april 28, 2019 at 4:19 pm wow, this is great post. i have to go to many places due to business. i read a lot of problems. your post is really very helpful. reply techsofttips says: april 20, 2019 at 1:35 pm i love travelling and i make 2 family overseas trips a year. i thank you for giving incredible advise on every single details of travelling. despite my own travel experience i have learned so much from your article. the most useful is first one (to make travelling top priority ) . i have 2 kids, and my next trip will be very much different with your great tips. reply pingback: top travel blogs - plan pack depart reha says: april 15, 2019 at 8:22 am great travelling tips reply khan says: march 29, 2019 at 5:31 pm i found the first secular thinking white people.i like when you share positive things towards different countries cos it helps people to overcome from their misunderstand which they had towards different countries. i am an india citizen ,now u r sharing the vedios of pakistan ,i really shocked to know the real pakistan.lol lol lol lol lol reply pingback: "25 best travel tips i've picked up from 80+ countries" - drew binsky - kyla mae s. corbe rohit aggarwal says: february 11, 2019 at 7:44 am thanks for the information reply dubrovnik boat tours says: january 22, 2019 at 10:15 am to access internet without any hassle across the different countries you will need a special device which can provide you a better access for connecting to the mobile for this you will need a tap device to access the internet where the public wi-fi run easily as this will make a hotspot for you to connect the internet flawlessly. reply jay eliyos says: january 17, 2019 at 8:10 am what a wonderful tips on travelling, thank you for your sharing this tips it will help me a lot when ever i travel abroad. reply mandy says: january 15, 2019 at 3:13 pm wha a loads of bullshit. is it an article or 99 advertisements on one page? i came here to read an experienced opinion and there is hardly 5 out of 25 advices that worth at least something. where this world is rolling… reply allison says: december 8, 2018 at 1:45 am great tips! i love how you made some worthy and helpful 25 tips. we are planning to go to a trip this summer with my husband. we are not professional travelers and i realized that your tips will be so useful for us. they are so simple but so clear as well. so i really liked your post. reply socorro s. reinhart says: december 4, 2018 at 2:10 pm thank you so much for this amazing list of tips. i’m going out on my first trip in three days time and i now feel better prepared to face the world after reading this article. reply smith shadow says: november 28, 2018 at 11:27 am i love to travel alone and my family always worries about me and in order not to make them worry in every time i travel to somewhere i let them know and track me using a gps tracking device so that they will know that i’m always safe. reply faiza liaquat says: october 1, 2018 at 4:04 pm hello, what is tour sponsor post price of this site https://drewbinsky.com waiting your reply reply william galph says: august 31, 2018 at 6:56 am hey drew, i found your blog while searching for travel tips i found some great stuff on your blog as your main focus was on luggage. i faced this problem as i am an everyday traveller and i used to forget luggage at home reply sahil jain says: august 2, 2018 at 5:40 pm i’ve always struggled with good internet connections and multiple local sims while travelling abroad. thanks for the suggestion. i will try using tep and get back with the reviews. 🙂 reply amy day says: july 10, 2018 at 1:39 pm we are planning to go to a trip this summer with my husband. we are not professional travellers and i realized that your tips will be so useful for us. they are so simple but so clear as well. so i really liked your post. thanks for sharing all these useful information. reply chinnaiah ramamoorthi says: july 2, 2018 at 9:20 am thanks a lot drew for these amazing tips. reply ankita says: june 21, 2018 at 6:01 pm hello drew, next time you plan to take a trip in india, i would suggest you try the southern part of india or the north east part, as these places are not much explored, but they definitely worth trying. u can plan a trip in kerala, meghalaya, arunachal pradesh, sikkim and nagaland or you can try visiting pondicherry. reply pingback: 25 beste reisetips jeg har plukket opp fra 80+ land – title pingback: the world is drew binsky's playground, join his global party - metiza mohammed says: june 6, 2017 at 4:51 am hay drew , i know that u use gopro camera to take some pictures but , do u use another cameras , what are they? another question, how can i find events at the city that i’m traveling to? reply drew binsky says: june 6, 2017 at 7:37 pm i use a canon eosm3! reply louie allen says: april 10, 2017 at 12:23 am hey drew, wanted to check in and see if the osprey porter 46l is still your go to travel back pack and what daypack do you exactly use? lastly, is nomads travel insurance also for medical insurance in case you have to go to medical care abroad? thanks drew! reply drew binsky says: may 25, 2017 at 4:42 pm hi louie – yes, the 46l osprey is still my go-to backpack! i love it! my day pack is by thule brand reply paul koehler says: march 25, 2017 at 7:08 pm regarding currency. i always carry 3 currencies: dollars, euros and marlboros! current exchange rate is 1 pack of marlboros for 1 750ml beer 🙂 reply drew binsky says: march 27, 2017 at 11:15 am hahaha nice one! reply shelby berke says: august 31, 2016 at 3:37 am great tips! it seems like we are on the same page with many things…except i need to get on board with the waking up early and seeing the city part. i cannot seem to get out of the house early and i need to make that shift! reply drew binsky says: september 6, 2016 at 9:28 pm hahah yes, waking up early is essential when traveling! reply paula cullison says: august 21, 2016 at 10:24 am thank you for the valuable travel tips. i have been traveling for over 50 years and have never had a bad trip. it’s all about attitude. buen viaje…….keep on traveling. reply drew binsky says: august 21, 2016 at 5:13 pm thank you paula! reply rish says: august 20, 2016 at 12:58 am “…for certain hotels and airports that charge for their wifi, just add “?.jpg” at the end of any url to bypass the expensive fee and use the internet for free.” this is an amazing tip if it works. will give it a try next time! reply drew binsky says: august 20, 2016 at 4:37 pm it doesn’t always work, but sometimes it does. worth a try! reply joe dehart says: august 20, 2016 at 12:25 am an even better option for maps is maps.me you can download countries before arrival and it is super detailed along with restaurants, hostels, hotels etc. much better in my opinion. hostel world and couchsurfing.com are great avenues for cheaper and free housing. in terms of money exchange and atms the fees you get for pulling out money is higher than the updated exchange rate, it’s actually cheapest and safest to get money exchanged at a bank. reply drew binsky says: august 20, 2016 at 4:37 pm yes, i’ve tried maps.me and it’s good, but i always prefer google! reply andy says: august 19, 2016 at 7:58 pm drew, great list. thank you very much. some tips i’ll be using immediately. a couple of things. re:atms, do you have any thoughts on those third party (not a bank’s) atms you see in airports or hotel lobbies? personally i never use them, they just feel scammy. i’ll wait till i find one from a bank. also re: world nomads, they don’t cover anyone over 60 (not important to you, but is for others). thanks again! reply drew binsky says: august 20, 2016 at 4:38 pm hey andy – i try to only use atms from big banks… and i’m sorry about the world nomads coverage.. i didn’t know that! reply nathan says: august 19, 2016 at 6:54 pm great post– i have friends that use the t-mobile plan that you mention and it’s s l o w. i also buy sim cards every time i change countries and my 3g is always faster than theirs. reply drew binsky says: august 20, 2016 at 4:39 pm yes i am skeptical about getting t-mobile because i’ve heard it’s slow in some countries reply susan says: july 13, 2018 at 3:53 am we used tmobile for our 8.5 month trip. it worked great most of the time. india had better coverage than we have at home in colorado! australia was a major problem but at least wifi was easily found. tmobile gave us access to data and texting and maps for our basic monthly plan. as a older than 60 person, i get a great price! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment * name * email * website recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.