skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » inspiration » 25 beautiful and popular blogs built with wordpress 2019 25 beautiful and popular blogs built with wordpress 2019 june 14, 2019 vishnu inspiration 11 comments we live in a tech-savvy world where the spoken word is no longer the only means of communication. many forms of media have taken over, and one among them is blogging. blogging is a platform for anyone who wants to be heard. it started in a very personal way as a means of self expression and has gone on to become a kind of web journal of reputed individuals and organizations. some blogs are just personal diaries of individuals, and others are authoritative and reliable sources of information for the niche they write about. at an individual level, blogs are a means to connect with the community, a means of reaching out to help others, to promote your expertise in a particular area or simply to stay connected with a close circle of family and friends. at a commercial level, blogs help in advertising and branding reaching out to an internet friendly population. key features a quarter of the websites of the world use wordpress as their content management system. this is not surprising at all, given the great advantages that wordpress offers. the platform needs no coding knowledge at all, but even coders and developers go for it, as it is open source and highly customizable. it is also easy to download and install. comprehensive tutorials are available at codex as well as across the web. there is solid community support for wordpress and it is kept constantly updated based on feedback from users and developers. wordpress has a user-friendly dashboard to manage your blog or website. you can incorporate your favorite theme, both free and premium, to give your blog a distinct appearance. you can also extend functions by adding plugins. wordpress is seo friendly, with many plugins to aid search engines. it is scalable and your blog can also be monetized as it grows in readership. you should also be aware that not everything will be smooth sailing with wordpress. normally, wordpress operates without a hitch. but in case you do encounter an error, you will end up chiding yourself for not picking up a little wordpress knowledge. this is where codex, the wordpress support forum, web based tutorials and other wordpress resources can bail you out. just in case you want to check out alternatives available to you, learn about other content management systems from this helpful article on colorlib. wordpress is used as the cms in many popular and top-ranking blogs. and you can take a closer look at 25 such blogs here to see wordpress in action. techcrunch techcrunch is a technology news blog that doubles up as a guide for all tech stuff. it keeps you up-to-date on events in tech companies, whether large or small. the site also carries opinions about and analysis of these companies. whether yahoo is slashing its workforce or you want to find out about the earnings of tech companies or breakthrough advances in technology, this is where you will find the news. you can tap data on funding for tech companies and startups here. here you can also access techcrunch daily and weekly newsletters and interviews with big names in technology. reuters blog the blog of reuters news agency covers a great deal of ground by way of information. there are many geographical editions to this blog. its high alexa rating places it among the most popular blogs. it also has a solid reputation as an authoritative news source and is widely followed all over the globe. the blog is brimming with highly readable information. the cranky flier the cranky flier is the blog of brett snyder who has allowed a childhood fascination for air travel to grow into a full-fledged blog. he keeps close tabs on the trends, events and happenings in the airline industry. he has also gained a deep insider knowledge of the industry, making his blog a must-read for airlines and air travelers. after ellen originally started by sarah warn, after ellen takes a closer look at the feminist lgbt community and how it is represented in the media. it gets the name after ellen as it was started right after ellen degeneres came out on her popular show ellen. it is a one-stop forum to fathom the views of lesbian and bisexual women, especially in entertainment. perez hilton this is the blog to beat all blogs for celebrity gossip. its author, perez hilton, earlier called mario lavandeira, was named the number one web celeb for 2007, 2008 and 2009 by forbes magazine. like it or not, this blog is raking in the greenbacks for mario. for truth or for gossip about your favorite celebrity, you now know where to look. the sartorialist the idea of this blog is so simple, you’ll wonder why it never occurred to anyone before. others have tried it out, but have not been so successful. this blog is only a scroll down of full length photographs of people around the world who have taken a little care to be well dressed. but they have caught the eye of fashion designer scott schuman and have found a place in his ‘street fashion’ blog. spoon and tamago japanese design in all forms – from fine art to product design – is what has caught the fancy of johnny strategy. it is a favorite read with designers, artists and architects. this blog is not simply a place for showcasing design. it is much more; it provides a context to the design in terms of its significance, relevance and unique content. darren hardy this is the blog of the author/publisher of success magazine, darren hardy, who is a success mentor to ceos. he has interviewed a number of highly successful people like richard branson, jack welch, elon musk and mark zuckerberg. you can read inspirational posts and watch motivational videos on his blog. the positivity blog you can use henrik edberg’s blog to make your life more simple, happy and fulfilling. he experiments with his own life and shares the tips, tricks and knowledge that he gains from it in his blog. for henrik, both he and his blog are a work in progress. you will also find tons of practical and easy-to-adopt and follow tips that can truly turn you life around. my nintendo news nintendo is the world’s largest revenue-earning video game company. the blog my nintendo news has regular updates, with the latest news on the company’s various consoles. playstation blog for thousands of fans and gaming enthusiasts, playstation blog is the place for meeting the creators of the playstation experience. the blog gets content updates on an almost daily basis. each game commands its own post and the blog actively promotes two-way conversations with fans. the martha blog the martha blog is the place where you will find posts from martha stewart, an american businesswoman with a variety of interests in writing, cooking and television. her blog covers wide ranging topics such as recipes, holidays, family, garden, pets, and more. one of her best offerings is a wedding guide book that will help couples plan for their big day. matt mullenweg the wordpress community would be well aware of matt mullenweg, the founding developer of wordpress. he is an avid speaker, ready to share his thoughts and knowledge at many conferences across the world. his blog is teeming with many personal thoughts, quotes and photographs that he likes to take. also, the blog posts some videos of his interviews in languages other than english. windows blog windows blog is the official blog for windows and microsoft devices. their blog page shares the latest products available at the windows store, trailers for various games, an insider preview of windows 10 and much more. the blog is a window to the happenings at microsoft and has a robust following among the tech-loving crowd. the mozilla blog the mozilla blog is the place to go to for all information, news, updates, opinions and events at mozilla. with informative articles on firefox and the additional features constantly added to it, you can get the maximum from your firefox browser, be informed of corporate events, or educate you on data privacy issues. rafael nadal fans rafael nadal is among the top ranking professional tennis players. though not an official site of the player, this is a popular blog brimming with information and inspirational quotes from the famous spaniard. the blog also follows all his matches and off court action. the official rackspace blog the official blog of this america-based cloud computing company keeps readers updated on their latest offerings, as well as on the latest news and announcements. the posts are neatly arranged with small size images against them and a sidebar that carries the more popular posts. posts are also categorized so browsing and finding what you want is easy. the last refuge the last refuge is a blog that follows elections in the united states in particular and politics in general. calling themselves the conservative treehouse, the blog undertakes exhaustive research and analysis to bring facts before the readers. their stand on political issues is well established and their predictive analysis is often on the dot. the blog is intended to be a substitute for a conversation on a porch among friends. watts up with that watts up with that was started by anthony watts, a television meteorologist for 25 years, to present data about climate and weather in a manner that readers can grasp and appreciate. he does not merely preach green living; he also practices it in his daily life. the blog contains original articles on science news from watts as well as other writers dealing with weather, technology and climate change. boing boing boing boing writes about seemingly unimportant stuff. but by doing this, it stresses the role of the internet as a global medium that should not be controlled by governments or corporations. it acts as the voice of a small blogger, taking up issues that they may find too huge to handle, such as the homeland security legislation that was introduced post 09/11. dooce.com dooce.com is the personal blog of heather armstrong. she earns sufficient income from this blog to run her family of two girls and two dogs. she is completely honest with her audience and this has led to her loyal fan base. heather and her website became well known after she was fired from her job for writing about her place of work in not-so-flattering terms. now, do you get what being dooced means ? hello fashion blog christine andrew started hello fashion in 2011 as a way to reach out to, inspire, and advise the everyday woman on fashion. you can tap the blog for fashion tips and ideas. ted blog ted has one simple mission: to spread ideas. the goal is to make ideas accessible to all and generate a spark. the ideas are usually packed into less-than-eighteen-minute speeches delivered at ted talks. for a world of ideas, you can read their posts and dig into their archives on this blog. official linkedin blog linkedin is a forum for professionals all over the world to connect and be more successful. with an alexa ranking of 16, it has 400 million members across the world. the blog contains information relevant to professionals in their career. linkedin aims to provide a level playing field for professionals. the change blog the change blog is a forum where more than 50,000 members share their experiences in dealing with change. started by peter clemens, it has evolved into a community blog as peter realized that he was not alone. he reached out to many others like him who had gone through bad patches in their lives. you can find solace in the more than 800 stories shared in this blog. and finally now that you have seen top quality blogs publishing content via the wordpress content management system, any doubts you have about wordpress as the cms for your blog must have vanished. if any of it still remain, feel free to write in about it. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. bloggingblogsexample websitesminimalsimplewordpresswordpress blogs share this share tweet pin it share vishnu vishnu is a freelance writer by night, works as a data analyst by day. related posts 30 beautiful websites using wpexplorer’s flag ship theme – total wpexplorer claims that the wordpress theme of their own creation is called total for a… 25+ business powerpoint & keynote templates to create an effective presentation presentation is one of the most effective means to deliver a certain message to the… top 20 css3 tutorials to improve your web development skills cascading style sheets (css) is becoming more than just a language for styling the web.… top 21 best free css3 frameworks for web development 2019 cascading style sheets (css) is what gives the web its cozy looks. writing plain html… 35 free poster mockups for successful design showcase 2019 with poster mockups, you can have a clearer idea of how your marketing material will… 27 best free mug mockups for stunning presentation 2019 with this fantastic, beautiful and easy to use free mug mockups, you can create outstanding… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 30 interesting websites that use wordpress as a cms 2019 next post: 20 marvelous websites using calafate theme we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×