skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 25 green eco-friendly wordpress themes for organic & eco-friendly websites 2020 25 green eco-friendly wordpress themes for organic & eco-friendly websites 2020 february 21, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 3 comments in order to appreciate something of great importance, you must first imagine your life without that specific thing, or factor. as humans, we get to enjoy the benefits of our own ingenuity and perseverance, but we are far from perfect. the truth is that we are on the brink of global change, a change that cannot be offset, not even by our impressive problem-solving abilities. the nature of these changes dictates that they cannot be reversed, but they can be prevented. to understand the importance of the environment, we must first understand our luck. an exercise is often proposed: think of going into space, pick a direction, and start walking. for billions upon billions of kilometers, it is the very embodiment of hell. the cold that would instantly freeze any life, heat that can make even our own sun seem like a snowball. add that to radiation, and gravity that would literally rip your molecules apart. for the most part, this is our universe. the reason that we are not subjected to these forces, is because we live on an oasis. this pale blue dot as some have called it, nurtures and provides everything that we might need, shelters us from harmful energy, and fills our lungs with fresh air. effects of climate change even the good earth is somewhat unstable. it seems eternal because we only get to live about 80 years or so, but the reality contradicts our perception. it is a moving system that fluctuates, and sometimes the earth is filled with volcanoes and sulfuric acid, and sometimes it allows for life prosper. we were fortunate enough to catch it in a good mood, but our heavy industrial activity is destabilizing the system. about 9 out of 10 scientists agree that our climate is changing, and with these changes comes the possible end of our species proliferation. gases that result from heavy industry trap heat into our atmosphere, deforestation is killing the trees that provide oxygen, and pesticides are killing aquatic life. depending on who you ask, this has happened about 5-6 times before. the phenomena are called mass extinctions, as they have managed to wipe out most of the life on earth. of course, we did not cause those. the earth was just in one of its moody periods, and in the most famous extinction, a meteor crashed into the planet wiping out our favorite reptiles. despite previous instances, rest assured that this time it is our fault. with the exception of a few fringe doubters, most people on earth believe that it is time to change. the climate is like humpty dumpty: once broken, all the king’s horses and all the king’s men, can’t put it back together again. introduction to eco-friendly wordpress themes however, many are filled with hope, because the same sharp wit that is fueling this problem, is also working on preventing it. scientists and legislators aside, the common man has also decided to fight climate change. the advantage of the internet is that it gives the common man a voice. people from across the globe are banding together and expressing their opinions, and supporting what could be considered the ultimate cause. the stakes have never been higher, but the same thing can be said about our enthusiasm. be it a professional eco-friendly company, or a humble citizen of the world, platforms on wordpress can give you a voice. how does it do it? first, it eliminates the financial barrier. it is free to set up your account, and the premium features are affordable on even the lowliest of salaries. second, it puts you on the stage with the biggest players. real-life is filled with paperwork, intricacy and false promises. on wordpress, you cannot be silenced or delayed, you just have to speak. this right to speak does not guarantee that you will be heard. to come back to a previous point, if a wordpress site is your voice, a theme will be your song. themes are not simple skins, they are complex toolkits of features, widgets, and plugins that allow you to customize your page and make it more likely to receive views. with the salvation of our environment and untold economic opportunity at stake, you really have all of the incentives you need. that being said, let’s take a look at some awesome wordpress eco-themes: jevelin jevelin is a beautiful and outspoken wordpress multipurpose theme for green and eco websites. it’s the result of a lengthy design and development process centered on providing everyone with the most ambitious multipurpose website building platform around. jevelin’s competent handling of high-resolution visual content and embedded local or remotely hosted video, powered by html5, combined with its cutting edge blog technology spanning multiple layouts, dynamic ajax powered sorting, categories and searching, as well as its intricate and complex portfolio layout combinations and customization settings make it an obvious fit for running nature websites, from nature photography or exploration journals to nature aficionado magazines and far beyond. it’s perfectly cohesive visual integration makes it a breezy matter to coordinate graphical settings across your entire website or to create special, different pages, sections or elements with unique styling as you see fit, allowing for easy on the go categorization of your content. lastly, beautiful parallax background visual effects will make your landscape vistas come alive and connect with your audience. try jevelin now! more info / download demo eco nature eco nature is an ecology and environment wordpress theme that can help you create an impressive website. the goal of this product is to aid those that wish to maintain the natural balance and clean up the environment. thanks to a large number of options and excellent design feature, this theme can offer you a limitless option of solutions. the portfolio options are diverse, as you get to pick the layout that you choose, including a masonry puzzle, grids, layouts and paddings. you can use the multiple project post types and custom profiles if you want to ideally present your content. the range of use for eco nature is amazing. you can construct compelling pages for wildlife preservation fundraisers, organic life projects, preservation movement and etc. this is all due to some impressive plugins, resulting is adaptability, performance and responsiveness. the theme includes a personalized mega menu plugin, a layer slider, and a premium revolution slider, which are all free. it’s professionally supported, rtl-ready, and it lets you translate your content. this translation feature is more important than one might think. in order to achieve the noble goal of natural preservation, you are sometimes required to do donations. on a micro of macro scale, you will need support. realizing this, the developers have added features that can aid you in collecting donations safely, and efficiently. this will be possible through paypal. the spectrum of causes has a meta-theme, but the details are varied. from promoting clean energy to combating local deforestation, your web page will need to present the facts. given the large number of features, the theme is reasonably priced. check out their live preview content for more information. more info / download demo infinite if you would like to market your eco-friendly, green and environmental business on the internet like a pro, do it with infinite. this is a strikingly versatile and adaptive wordpress theme that you can employ for all sorts of different aims. there is also a full-blown demo available for everything eco- and green-related. to push your innovative technologies and other nature-friendly services, you now know where to start. for your information, to craft a page with infinite, prior experience is also not necessary. along with the terrific page layouts and many practical features, infinite also follows all the trends and regulations of the modern web. meaning, your freshly established website will run without a hitch, regardless of the device and platform your users use. set yourself apart and stand out from the masses, pushing the boundaries with your company, thanks to a sophisticated online presence. more info / download demo shopkeeper if you are in need of a multipurpose wordpress woocommerce that can handle everything, look no further than shopkeeper. this theme has some very informative and extensive documentation. if you are having trouble with the installation process, feel free to contact shopkeeper’s friendly customer support representatives. although it is a singular product, the developers packed it with many different features. it is like a starter kit for ambitious online merchants. high functionality and excellent design are the defining characteristics of shopkeeper. after it is implemented, your website can safely commercialize digital and shippable products, while organizing your inventory and collecting payments. you may also use it for simple cataloging. this is due to the popular and reliable woocommerce plugin. of course, your page will need to match your product niche. with such a broad spectrum of needs, shopkeeper’s flexible framework can be a valuable asset. you can finely tune the advanced theme options, in order to accommodate your vision. if you are just starting out, you might want to consider some of the pre-built layouts for pages. each of them is user-friendly, flexible, and fully customizable. this will give you an idea of how to construct your own online store. more info / download demo the retailer the retailer is among the most popular woocommerce themes for wordpress. you may use it to construct amazing blogs, corporate and personal sites, online stores and portfolios. your customers will definitely appreciate the high level of detail. for more information regarding the product and the installation process you can refer to theme documentation which covers most important aspects of this theme setup and customization. it has plenty of video demonstrations and tutorials. if you experience any problem, the support staff can be easily contacted. no question is too insignificant, as they are ready to guide you through each step. the creators also added a couple of useful premium plugins to this theme for free. create amazing slides using the slider revolution plugin, and customize your page with the wpbakery page builder. using this theme, customers may open a brilliant online store that is sure to outshine its competition. installing the retailer is not difficult, as the setup process can import dummy data akin to what can be seen on demo pages. no good theme will ever embrace stagnation. with this product, customers can benefit from a limitless amount of updates, without having to pay extra fees. more info / download demo farmvilla farmvilla is a clever and well-built wordpress organic food website theme. this theme is very much a theme for modern times, deploying a series of incredibly cutting edge tools that make the website design and creation process a highly approachable task that will take you mere minutes to complete, with seamless, impeccably executed visual stylings and functional elements that will amaze and engage your visitors, while requiring absolutely no previous coding skills or experience from you. farmvilla is jam-packed with usefulness, from convenient inclusion of the premium wpbakery page builder, revolution slider premium slider and ultimate addons for vc plugins, farmvilla is a customization powerhouse with a completely visual interface and a magnificent admin panel chock-full of advanced options and customization categories for you to fiddle with. amazing out of the box woocommerce functionality makes farmvilla a natural salesman, perfect for organic grocers, food providers or organic catering services to easily market their wares to a massive online audience, and packaged with time-saving page templates such as the products, the recipe plugin to add recipes to each of your specific products, and much more. try farmvilla today! more info / download demo raworganic as the name suggests, raworganic is an eco-friendly wordpress theme for creating the neatest online organic stores. this could be a food shop or a health-first ecommerce page, whatever you plan to realize, you can do it without hassle using raworganic. it is a powerful theme with eight stunning home page demos which you can employ for your needs easily. moreover, raworganic is also powered by woocommerce to make sure the process of bringing into being your online store is a breeze. other fantastic traits of raworganic are fully responsive and mobile-ready design, complete customization freedom and search engine friendliness. the developers also equipped the site canvas with wpbakery page builder so you can create the exact page you want without the need to touch a single string of code. start your online project today with raworganic and make the world a better place. more info / download demo ekko if you are involved in renewable energy, let ekko do its trick and help you sort out a modern website. with all the pre-built layouts and sample content, you can actually get online sooner rather than later. for your information, ekko also comes with wpbakery drag and drop page builder, which unlocks a codeless web development process. how awesome does that sound? building a page without the need to touch a single line of code? that is correct. but there is a ton more to ekko than just the dragging and dropping technology. first, you get to install the demo with one simple click. from then on, you can already start using it, editing and improving the scheme with your creative touches. other goods include child theme, in-depth documentation, support, speed optimization, premium plugins for free, over 250 template blocks and video tutorials. ekko is an ideal tool for beginners but advanced users find it of great value, too. more info / download demo rt-theme 19 rt-theme 19 is a premium, streamlined theme for wordpress that includes everything to make unique and professional green business-related websites. it can enhance corporate, business, product catalog, portfolio, and services web pages. you can also use it for real estate, itinerary, car rental, and hotel projects. the rt-theme 19, in addition to woocommerce, can create the best online stores on the market. be sure to access the theme demo, if you want to experience the power of the customization tools. there are many skins and demos included in the basic package, and they can easily replace your default website skin. you can also stylize pages by using the wpbakery page builder tool, or the live customizer. either way, the result will look fantastic. rt-theme 19’s best feature is that it allows anyone to become an overnight expert. there is no programming or coding knowledge required, thus opening the door for ambitious entrepreneurs and inexperienced users. you can change the entire color palette, and you may also modify the fonts and background. this theme’s accessibility extends to a wide range of devices. many sites can experience resizing issues, as pages need to fit different screen sizes and resolutions. thankfully, rt-theme 19 is completely responsive and able to showcase your items on smartphones, tablets, and desktop computers. more info / download demo webify webify is a green and eco-friendly wordpress theme which will benefit you greatly. first and foremost, you need to understand that you will never need to touch a single string of code when working with webify. it is the drag and drop page building technique that helps everyone get as creative as they want. also, webify is 100% customizable, to the very last detail. on the other hand, if you fancy the sample that suits your needs best out of the box, you can employ it as is, too. this excellent package of web design goodies includes predefined header and footer styles, a massive library of blocks and elements, mega menu, parallax effect and sticky navigation. webify works flawlessly on all devices and web browsers for continuous smooth operation. get involved, put webify into play and shine online with a refreshing page. more info / download demo organic food organic food is a specialized professional wordpress theme oriented to nutrition and food. it is meant for nutritionist, life and health coaches and organic food businesses. it brings you out a demo with a simple one-click import! organic food uses many shortcodes for building unique page customizations. it provides awesome typography and icons integrated with help of premium plugins. you will find responsiveness to all screen sizes and devices. organic food uses many header and sidebar custom options. it comes with free updates and a recognized support team. you also get compatibility with woocommerce (for purchase) and wpml (for translations). the developers built organic food with visualizer page builder. you will get an incredible panel with lots of specialized plug-ins support. it has add-ons like a calculator, charts and much more. organic food lets you introduce portfolio or blog pages to sell products or start forums. it uses a clean, appealing concept, vivid in color to make food products stand out. you will find many layout options and a child theme featured as well. organic food is a bold themes creation and elite author product that will simply amaze you. if you are in the healthy food business, get it now…get organic food! more info / download demo hongo thanks to the complete flexibility and customization, you can use hongo for an assortment of different objectives. if you are searching for an eco-friendly wordpress theme, you guessed it, hongo becomes one with ease. with the wide selection of different homes and inner pages, you can now start with the right foot forward immediately. of course, hongo never asks you for coding and design knowledge. even if you are about to build your very first website, by using hongo, you make it happen with comfort. when it comes to the technical aspects of a theme, hongo ensures all and everything for a continuously smooth operation. the design is fluid and responsive, adapting to any modern device instantly. hongo is also fully compatible with retina screens, google, web browsers and fast loading. more info / download demo organik organik is a wordpress theme specialized in food, farm and bakery stores. the creators meant this tool for commercial purposes so they integrated it with the woocommerce plugin. you will get it with 6 homepages and fast data import to install. organik uses wpbakery page builder and supports tons of shortcodes too. coding skills will be replaced with drag & drop and time saving. they also integrated it with slider revolution which allows you to build amazing galleries and slides. organik lets you have fun setting amazing filters and views of products. you will have, preview, quickview, buying compare and more. clients can look for products related and add elements to a wishlist or a shopping cart. you will even get google fonts and wpml compatibility to reach a worldwide clientele. aesthetics while offering a good service are important. organik offers some interesting trades on visual appeal as well. use parallax effect on backgrounds, multiple header styles and css3 animations. colors to arrange are unlimited and customizer works on real time. with all of this, you can expect this theme to be responsive. build your dream food specialized store with documentation and support all the way. try now this bootstrap based and seo optimized ingenious creation! try organik! more info / download demo ciyashop in this day and age, you do not have to be an expert to bring into being an online shop. you can achieve supreme results by using an impressive green and eco-friendly wordpress theme, ciyashop. this tool is ready and set for just about whatever you would like to construct when it comes to ecommerce pages. seriously, the number of features and the amount of options you have are up there, in the sky. and right there, you can also take your novel web store with ciyashop. forty demos, a total of 160 layouts and sections, 24 product hover effects, you name it and ciyashop delivers it. you can also implement a blog section and use it for content marketing to bring in even more food enthusiasts. free updates, in-depth documentation and a fast and reliable support keep your page stand the test of time, as well as easy to manage and maintain. no need to be doing any hard work just use what is at your disposal and boost your business above and beyond. more info / download demo strnix strnix is an exclusive and first-class wordpress theme for solar and green energy. if you are in the field, you can now pick this outstanding solution for crafting a top-notch page that will help you spread the word out professionally. strnix offers you to pick between five different niche homes that you can customize further. with the use of elementor page builder, you can completely redesign strnix or lightly tweak it. whatever the case, the end product will be striking, and that is a guarantee. strnix has an entirely responsive design that functions smoothly on every device. it is also cross-browser compatible and fits retina screens like a dream. other specialties contain social links, blog pages, slider, call-to-actions and sticky navigation. to spice things up, strnix comes with cool animations that call for a great experience. more info / download demo agrom agrom – hence the name – is a wordpress theme for anything organic and agriculture-related. it is a fantastic tool that will get your project or business going online swiftly. you start the procedure by picking the demo and importing it with a single click. from then on, you can make customization tweaks via the drag and drop builder. keep in mind, you can also use agrom as is and experience a super swift realization of a page that will move mountains. creative and modern design, contact form 7, blog section, slideshow, back to top button, google maps and social media icons are all the different specialties of the agrom. indeed, there is no need for you to hire a coder to get the job done – you can do it yourself! if you are ready to take your agriculture business to new heights, agrom is the way to go. more info / download demo eronment eronment is an environmental wordpress theme that unlocks a broad horizon of possibilities and opportunities. you have five different home pages and multiple internal layouts that guarantee an almost instant page establishment. on top of that, eronment also includes king composer page builder that allows you to go as creative as you want without touching a single string of code. is it possible to create a killer page with no coding and design knowledge? you bet, it is! eronment follows all the latest trends and regulations of the modern web. it is a solution that works on all well-liked devices and browsers like a dream. the theme is fast loading and seo optimized, too, for your convenience. if you are ready to make a change and positively impact the industry, start strong with a well-thought-out website. more info / download demo gardening gardening is a well crafted and specialized wordpress theme. the developers fully dedicated it to gardening, lawn, landscaping and nature meeting man. it has a commercial inclination, ideal for garden, flower shops. gardening features awesome galleries, lists and pricing tables. the creators also added the store locator and woocommerce plug-in. you will get 2 homepages and a one-click demo install. gardening is responsive and provides +85 handcrafted elements to make building experience easy. it supports parallax and uses 2 great sliders (revolution slider and layer slider). page builder is wpbakery page builder and framework is unyson. they made gardening for artists and nature lovers. people who love plants and gardening in all its formats, will love it! you will get a megamenu to arrange posts and unlimited headers and layouts. you can also find a good set for your fonts and icons (google fonts, fonts awesome and stroke gap). gardening is contact form 7, wpml and seo compatible. display with +4 columns your beautiful work or useful products. it all depends on your business orientation. give a try to sell beautiful flower arrangements online, or just a shovel and some gloves. you can smoothly add whatever you want. the team can orient you with a custom support if you want…try beautiful gardening right now! more info / download demo avada whether you’re a concerned blogger, a socially responsible corporation, a vocal nonprofit raising awareness or a business fully devoted to eco-friendly models, avada is what you have been looking for. turn a new leaf with avada’s endless color choices, typographical customization extended admin panel customization options. use the fusion builder to create new, exciting layouts starting fresh or recycling avada’s many dozens of professionally designed layouts, which you can edit to your heart’s desire and until they perfectly match your desired brand and image. engage your audience in a moving, heartfelt manner with avada’s many smooth animations, transitions and special effects. parallax scrolling will fascinate your viewers and let them process your content thoughtfully while bedazzled at its presentation. avada is a theme for websites that want to build a new, greener future that can be sustained over the generations. start laying the foundation for a better tomorrow, today, with avada! more info / download demo organic web shop if you are looking for a great wordpress eco theme that includes an unlimited color palette and extensive theme options, look no further than organic web shop. the price of this theme is reasonable, especially when you consider the $46 of free plugins that you will receive. you will find out that it is worth the price. it’s perfect for setting up your online shop, inspiring trust in your potential clients. the developers added a currency converter, lessening the discomfort of converting exchange rates. however, this theme doesn’t restrict your cultural compatibility to currency. thankfully, organic web shop offers multilingual support, a features that can include translations of your content, so that non-english speaking audiences can browse what you have to offer. after all, the internet is the only medium that has the potential to generate a true global market place. you can view the live preview and the screenshots of this theme. you also have the option to visit the developer’s website, or follow their activity on themeforest. for the veterans of the wordpress community, the term woocommerce will not be a foreign one. it is a versatile and adaptable plugin, the thing that makes online shops possible. it’s not that it is the only option for commercial plugins, but people trust it. your visitors will be more likely to buy stuff from your site, if you are woocommerce enabled. the developers included a support forum that is a little slower than a direct email or voice direct support line but it does its job. this theme is also fully responsive. you can display your content in high quality on any device without any noticeable loss of loading time or resolution. more info / download demo gaea gaea is an eco-friendly wordpress theme that offers a series of useful features, designed to increase your website’s chances of success on the competitive market. it uses the innovative bootstrap framework making it fully responsive. this theme is adaptive in all types of devices, traditional or not. gaea offers an overwhelming innovation and that makes it modestly priced. it even gives you a revolution slider that is worth $18 for free. you can also set up your online store using the woocommerce plugin. if you wish, you may also enable paypal donations for your site. recently, the developers added an event registration feature that enhances your organizational ability. it all depends of which route you want to take in promoting your cause. you may choose to setup a corporate or private site, designed to generate profit. or you may choose the non-profit business model, relying on donations and advertisement revenue. regardless, gaea has the capabilities necessary for your proliferation and success. gaea will also give you useful updates that will improve your experience, and adapt its features to the ever changing market place. additionally, they will add more homepage template designs and new header design option. they also included an html version and you can download it as well. the support line representatives will answer any question regarding their service, and provide useful tips for the community. on the aesthetic side of things, the design is gorgeous, and you should get a lot of followers for that reason alone. you can display the event calendar in glorious, full width resolution, and choose between 2 main layout configurations. you can turn each instance in either boxed or full screen settings. more info / download demo lettuce instead of rehashing worn-out ideas, produce new content healthily with the lettuce theme. this green eco-friendly wordpress theme has freshly prepared templates that are guaranteed to be reliable and fully responsive. while this theme fits perfectly for organic food, vegetable store, farm products, fruits and eco products niches, you can also use it for tourism websites, ecommerce ventures and more. lettuce has a modern, clean and simple look, yet still maintaining originality and adaptability. lettuce has been showing a lot of promise with its awesome features and there are more to come in the future. in the bundle, you will also find a blog section which you can use for sharing all sorts of tips and strategically execute content marketing. customer support is also unswerving so you never feel lonely. more info / download demo eat eco do you want a theme that is soothing, relaxing and has a cozy feeling to it? eat eco will match that concept of yours. this green eco-friendly wordpress theme is perfect for food, organic and health stores. it is highly responsive with a lovely and organized look to appear beautifully on all screens and devices. eat eco comes with a stylish web design that creates a distraction-free experience. with the convenient drag and drop website builder, you can personalize the ready-made demos according to your style effortlessly. enjoy all the other features eat eco brings to the table, like wishlist, quick view, blog and portfolio styles, as well as revolution slider and mega menu. the options are there, you just need to put them to use and unlock a new horizon of possibilities for your business. more info / download demo organic life we must always pay attention to our nutrition. however, there is a backlash that aims to promote healthy living and eating. if you wish to promote and even capitalize on it, you need a solid web page. in many ways, a webpage is even more productive than a physical store, because no matter how good a store is, it will take time to get to it. time is not a factor that many people have in abundance, so you can exploit the tangible market. if you have chosen wordpress as your primary online platform, you must also select a proper theme. organic life is a good example of a product that manages to fit a certain niche, without being restricted to design and layout choices. with organic life, the only thing that is pre-determined, is that it is an eco-friendly wordpress theme. you can alter and modify any other conceivable aspect at your will. it is also ready for translation, allowing for many users to enjoy your content and service, even if they do not have english as their primary language. more people will always be more money. of course, you can use the fabulous woocommerce plugin to make an online store. the developers made this the compatible with any version of wordpress and they also added the awesome revolution slider. this allows the user to promote special sales and offers with ease. in addition to your more tangible product such as ingredients or even dishes, you may also maintain an enthralling blog. you will get to detail why this lifestyle is the right way to go, and how one could achieve it. overall this is a solid theme that deserves your attention. more info / download demo organic food as far as wordpress theme names go, you can’t really get more descriptive than this. of course, the organic food skin allows you to customize and improve your website. it doesn’t matter if you are selling ingredients yourself, or simply supporting an advice column for those that wish to live healthy. be it organic blogging, shops or farms, this theme has all of the necessary coding and features in order to banish the very concept of mediocrity from your site. for each possible industry niche that organic food might fulfill, they have created a demo web page. using these, you will be able to get a general idea of such a page should look like. when it comes to customization, you can either start from scratch, or modify one of these existing demos. you can use the very informative video tutorials added in this product if you’re not familiar with page creation. for even more information, you can check out the detailed documentation and the premium support forum feature. this theme covers every commonly asked question, so just browse all you want. on the aesthetic side of things, this theme include parallax background videos, full screen pictures, enticing animations and some very elegant typography. the developers added a wpbakery page builder, along with the woocommerce plugin and full translation capabilities. overall, this is a great theme that is deserving of your attention. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. bootstrapecommerceflat designgreenminimalnon-profitrtlwoocommerce themes share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts the best tailor wordpress themes to enter the fashion industry the growing demand for custom clothing has motivated people to start their own ventures. thinking… top financial wordpress themes for your online business to thrive not every business theme is appropriate for a financial website as there are some specialties about premium financial wordpress themes. 45 most popular & best wordpress themes of 2020 looking for the most popular and best wordpress themes out there? in this post, we… top 30 wpml wordpress themes available on sale do you want to reach more people with your content? or maybe you feel like… 19 best online course wordpress themes for online education, elearning 2020 here is our pick for the best online course wordpress themes to take the online… 15 code-free yoga and meditation wordpress themes as you can see, in 2019, everything around website building becomes extra comfortable. no wonder,… this post has 3 comments usman says: at colorib is a great site,.. reply dn shastri says: at wow great themes on the greenery of the world hope you all enjoy the themes. reply farhad says: at those are some great themes. love to see every website this beautiful. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 20 finest animal wordpress themes of your choice 2020 next post: 37 awesome food wordpress themes for food recipe sharing & showcase 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×