start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising productivity smartcut advertising last updated on january 13, 2020 25 hard work quotes to motivate you to achieve more dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. read full profile share pin it tweet share email there are days where our internal motivation will suffice. those are the days when you can get right to work without having to put on that fast-paced playlist, drink ten pots of coffee, and take a cold shower just to get started on your projects and responsibilities. other days, however, we can use any and every bit of help that we can get to get our motivational juices going. for those days, take a look at these 25 work hard quotes that will inspire you to do more with your time! “everybody wants to be famous, but nobody wants to do the work. i live by that. you grind hard so you can play hard. at the end of the day, you put all the work in, and eventually it’ll pay off. it could be in a year, it could be in 30 years. eventually, your hard work will pay off.”– kevin hart “luck? i don’t know anything about luck. i’ve never banked on it and i’m afraid of people who do. luck to me is something else: hard work–and realizing what is opportunity and what isn’t.” — lucille ball “winners embrace hard work. they love the discipline of it, the trade-off they’re making to win. losers, on the other hand, see it as punishment. and that’s the difference.” — lou holtz “i think the thing about that was i was always willing to work; i was not the fastest or biggest player but i was determined to be the best football player i could be on the football field and i think i was able to accomplish that through hard work.” –jerry rice “if your dream is a big dream, and if you want your life to work on the high level that you say you do, there’s no way around doing the work it takes to get you there.” –joyce chapman “live the life of your dreams. when you start living the life of your dreams, there will always be obstacles, doubters, mistakes and setbacks along the way. but with hard work, perseverance and self-belief there is no limit to what you can achieve.” –roy t. bennett “to achieve what 1% of the worlds population has (financial freedom), you must be willing to do what only 1% dare to do..hard work and perseverance of highest order.” –manoj arora “there’s no talent here, this is hard work. this is an obsession. talent does not exist, we are all equals as human beings. you could be anyone if you put in the time. you will reach the top, and that’s that. i am not talented. i am obsessed.” –conor mcgregor “you’re responsible for your journey in life, no one else. you have to know the destination to go there. others can help show you the way, but no one can take you there.” — debasish mridha md “successful people, whether they’re working for somebody else or working for themselves, do whatever they do to the best of their ability – as if the boss is watching them every minute of every day.” — dean graziosi “don’t wish it was easier, wish you were better. don’t wish for less problems, wish for more skills. don’t wish for less challenges, wish for more wisdom. the major value in life is not what you get. the major value in life is what you become. success is not to be pursued; it is to be attracted by the person you become.” — jim rohn “i give 100% to my job because i love what i do. i get 101% in return. what great things love, attitude, passion, and hard work can accomplish!” –benjamin kofi quansah “there is another apt latin expression: materiam superabat opus. (the workmanship is better than the material.) the material we’ve been given genetically, emotionally, financially, that’s where we begin. we don’t control that. we do control what we make of that material, and whether we squander it.” –ryan holiday “if you will invest the maximum amount of time in hard work, polishing and building your own land of promise, you will become great in life. you will become exceptional. you will become a specialist and the world would want to reckon with you.” –sunday adelaja “from the dawn of civilization it is the will of man that has propelled him forward. man progressed from the brute in the jungle to the sophisticated being in the boardrooms of the top most organisations of the world. man is obsessive. if man puts his heart and soul into something then man will achieve it. to strive till the end and get it. a man doesn’t ever give up. a man will work hard till the end. a man will win.” –avijeet das “if i have one piece of advice to give you all about what to search for in your quest for what next, it’s to find where the line blurs between hard work and happiness for you. to find that thing where working hard at it makes you happy, and where you’re happy to work hard at it.” –tom fletcher “there are trials in life that feel as tremendous as a quest to slay dragons. these trials are daunting. they require hard work, determination, and courage. but when the dragon is finally slain, the relief is immense.” — richelle e. goodrich “anything that you truly believe in, any dream or goal you have, any project you are a part of; it’s going to take work, it’s going to need effort. nothing comes easy or drops out the sky. for you to appreciate it, you’ve got to be in it, 100%.” –carey digsby “do what ought to be done, here and now, to get you somewhere — anywhere.” — charlotte eriksson “when you have an idea, it is like carbon. it has potential. to make it into a diamond, you need to put in hard work. when you have a diamond, it may not be perfect. you need to polish it, improve it. only then is it valuable.” — rohan kulkarni “eventually, what you’re looking for is gonna happen, and by the time it does happen, you’ll be that much better along the way to what you should be. don’t get discouraged, and just keep on plugging along, and what you want will eventually be yours. you know, there’s nothing to stop it if you just keep on working hard. and by working hard, i mean doing the best job you possibly can. everything happens for the best, and i believe it completely.” — bob crane “nothing remarkable or impressive comes to be overnight, and all those so-called “overnight success” stories misrepresent the truth. it is only the manifestation of that success that appeared overnight, but its essence was built up over time.” — innocent mwatsikesimbe “attaining achievement is not simple. it is not attain by chance, you have to work with it. there ought to be diligence and own path on the best way to accomplish achievement. it takes much time before having the tree grown foods of your work. as you come the way, you will know the things on the best way to be fruitful. achievement needs time, exertion and tolerance.” — auliq ice “when life brings you mountains, you don’t waste your time asking why; you spend your time climbing over them.” — a.j. darkholme “good fortune and talent are both ingredients of success, but like any recipe, they can be substituted with clever alternatives. the one irreplaceable ingredient i’ve found, however, is work.” –shane snow there you have it! this collection of 25 hard work motivational quotes that speak to the value of hard work will help you to push through your limitations and realize the success that comes out of working hard and staying on track. good luck in your endeavors! more inspirational quotes 40 powerful productivity quotes from highly successful people 50+ best motivational quotes to overcome life’s challenges 100 motivational quotes that will guide you to massive success featured photo credit: kari shea via unsplash.com advertising share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 50+ best motivational quotes to overcome life’s challenges 100 motivational quotes that will guide you to massive success how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) advertising advertising more by this author dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it how to figure out what motivates you at work 25 hard work quotes to motivate you to achieve more how to do what you love successfully how to deal with failure and pick yourself back up advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it how to figure out what motivates you at work 25 hard work quotes to motivate you to achieve more how to do what you love successfully how to deal with failure and pick yourself back up trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated why you need to set future goals (and how to reach them) advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.