wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » 25 interesting facts about wordpress (infographic) 25 interesting facts about wordpress (infographic) last updated on february 16th, 2019 by editorial staff 2k shares share tweet share pin want to know some cool wordpress facts? wordpress turn 14 years old today, so we thought what best way to celebrate the world’s most popular website building software than to create a top 25 facts about wordpress infographic. here are 25 most interesting facts about wordpress that you may not know. you can click on the image below to view the infographic or keep reading the text version 1. wordpress is older than twitter and facebook the first version of wordpress was released on may 27, 2003. this makes wordpress older than both facebook and twitter. 2. the name – wordpress christine selleck tremoulet, a prolific blogger and a friend of matt mullenweg (co-founder of wordpress), suggested the name wordpress. 3. wordpress powers nearly 27% of all websites according to w3techs web technologies surveys, wordpress currently powers nearly 27% of all websites. 4. wordpress dominates 76.4% of cms market share according to wappalyzer, wordpress dominates the content management software usage with 76.4% market share. 5. wordpress is open source and free wordpress is released under gnu gpl license, which allows anyone in the world to download and use it. the source code is freely available for anyone to study, use, modify, and build upon. see our article on why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? 6. wordpress is not owned by any company in order to protect the freedoms offered by open source, wordpress co-founder matt mullenweg created the wordpress foundation. this non-profit organization owns the ‘wordpress’ trademark, and protects freedoms offered by the software’s open source license. for more details see: who owns wordpress and how does wordpress make money. 7. wordpress doesn’t have a ceo since wordpress is an open source project not owned by any company, it does not have a ceo. the project is run by volunteer developers from all over the world. there is a thorough decision making process in place which allows anyone to submit bug reports, patches, suggest features, and so on. 8. wordpress powers a multi-billion dollar economy hundreds of companies and thousands of professionals from all over the world sell wordpress based products, services, and solutions. wordpress provides excellent opportunities to thousands of developers, designers, and entrepreneurs to build their businesses upon wordpress. check out our list of 20 most influential wordpress businesses and companies. 9. 1.48 billion plugin downloads wordpress plugin downloads crossed 1.48 billion total downloads in 2016. that’s 48% increase since 2015 when plugin downloads surpassed 1 billion mark. 10. wordpress is used by governments all over the world wordpress powers thousands of government websites in all parts of the world. the list includes dozens of us federal and state government websites, counties, small towns, high schools, etc. 11. wordpress in education wordpress is used by thousands of universities, colleges, and schools all over the world. the open source license allow students and academia to study, modify, learn, and contribute to the development of wordpress core, plugins, and themes. see our list of 40+ popular universities that are using wordpress 12. more than 50,000 free plugins plugins are like apps for your wordpress site. there are currently more than 50,000 free wordpress plugins available for download. from creating an online store to adding a contact form, whatever you want to do there is a good chance that you will find a plugin for that. take a look at our pick of 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites. 13. more non-english wordpress downloads in 2014, non-english wordpress downloads surpassed the english version. in later years, wordpress made it possible to install language packs from the wordpress admin area. in the final release of 2016, wordpress added the language switching feature for users on a wordpress site. 14. wordpress is available in 68+ languages wordpress is fully translated into 68 languages, and it is partially translated into dozens more. many popular wordpress plugins and themes are also available in different languages. it can also be used as multi-lingual platform with the help of plugins like wpml and polylang. see our guide on how to install wordpress in other languages. 15. wordcamp events in 41 countries official wordpress events are called wordcamps. in 2016, there were 115 wordcamp events in 41 countries attended by 36,000 wordpress users. 16. wordpress meetups in 58 countries wordpress meetups are smaller events organized by local communities under the umbrella of the wordpress foundation. in 2016, there were 3193 wordpress meetups, in 58 countries, attended by 62,566 users. 17. wordpress cousins the community behind wordpress also runs sister projects like bbpress, buddypress, and glotpress. they are all open source software built on top of the wordpress core and principles. 18. 11.45% of wordpress sites use ssl encryption in 2016, the number of wordpress sites using https was increased from 4% to 11.45%. it is expected to grow tremendously as wordpress plans to push encryption more pro-actively in 2017. see our guide on how to add free ssl in wordpress with let’s encrypt. 19. wordpress is written in php and mysql wordpress is written in php programming language and uses mysql for database. 20. 20% of wordpress is written in javascript 20% code in the wordpress core is javascript. this is expected to grow as wordpress becomes more and more like an application development framework. 21. free community based wordpress support wordpress is a community driven project and support is widely available free of cost. there is an official wordpress support forum which gets thousands of posts every day. there are also resource websites like wpbeginner where users can find tutorials, watch videos, and learn wordpress. if you ever have questions about wordpress, simply reach out to us through our contact form. we also recommend looking at our guide on how to properly ask for wordpress support and get it. 22. wordpress and jazz all wordpress releases are named after jazz artists. for example, wordpress 1.0 was named after miles davis and wordpress 4.6 was named after pepper adams. 23. wordpress has a built-in auto update system wordpress automatically updates itself for minor releases. it can also push plugin updates automatically if there is a severe vulneribility found that threatens millions of websites. 24. wordpress.com is not the same as wordpress.org wordpress is the open source software that allows you to build your website. you will need wordpress hosting to install wordpress (see our guide on how to make a website). on the other hand, wordpress.com is a blog hosting service run by automattic. see our guide on the difference between wordpress.com vs wordpress.org. 25. wordpress for multisite networks wordpress has built-in multisite feature which is hidden by default. it allows you to create a network of websites using the same wordpress installation. for more on this topic, take a look at our guide on how to install and setup wordpress multisite network. we hope this article helped you learn some new interesting facts about wordpress. you may also want to see our guide on how to choose the best blogging platform. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 2k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 11 commentsleave a reply christine says: jan 8, 2020 at 10:03 pm awwww… i feel so honored to be trivia #2! those early days of wordpress were a special time! people always ask me if i suggested any other names, or what else was considered. i only suggested that one though, and as soon as i suggested it, he went and bought the domain for it! the rest is internet history! i *heart* wordpress! reply heather o'connor says: may 31, 2017 at 6:27 pm i feel so fortunate to have found wordpress! i made sites for our educational nonprofit site, one for my hubby’s surfing photos and one for my artwork. i’m 74, never had done this before and am happy as a clam! congratulations to all of you! reply pascal says: may 30, 2017 at 5:39 pm hello wordpress. thank you for existing, and for using you. wishing you a happy birthday! reply mickey c says: may 30, 2017 at 3:19 pm happy birthday wordpress! reply johnpaul onwueme says: may 30, 2017 at 12:14 pm i recently joined wordpress, it is very blogging platform to be with. happy birthday reply charm bagasbas says: may 30, 2017 at 11:05 am happy birthday wordpress!! you really are a great help especially for non-designers and developers. reply peter c says: may 30, 2017 at 10:53 am you might want to check on whether wp 1.0 was named after mike davis or miles davis. almost guaranteed the latter. reply editorial staff says: may 31, 2017 at 7:59 am great catch. we fixed it reply janet says: may 30, 2017 at 10:38 am thank you. i’ve been thinking about blogging and will use wordpress. you’ve given me the information i need and furled my inspiration. reply bunty oberoi says: may 28, 2017 at 5:49 pm happy birthday wordpress. reply tonya b says: may 28, 2017 at 9:05 am this is great! i just learned so much more about the wordpress platform from this post. i didn’t know wordpress does not have a ceo! thanks for sharing this. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.