wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 25 popular sites using wordpress as a cms in 2020 25 popular sites using wordpress as a cms in 2020 last updated on march 13th, 2020 by editorial staff 470 shares share tweet share pin wondering how you can use wordpress as a cms? one of the most common misconceptions about wordpress is that it is just a blogging software. some of you often ask us for examples of wordpress being used as a cms platform (content management system) and not just as a blog platform. there are thousands of websites using wordpress as a content management system. wordpress is highly flexible and easy to customize even for beginners. in this article, we will show you some of the most popular websites that are using wordpress as a cms. why wordpress is the most popuplar cms? wordpress is the most popular website builder and content management system in the world. it has a market share of 35% of websites on the internet. with wordpress, you can make a website, start a blog, or create an online store. it comes with thousands of free and premium plugins that work as addons to extend the features and functionality on your site. most websites use wordpress for its flexibility, easy-to-use admin panel, and thousands of themes / templates. you can set up a wordpress site quickly without writing any code. let’s take a look at some of the examples of websites using wordpress as a cms. 1. bbc america bbc america is a popular entertainment site that broadcasts several british tv shows like the graham norton show, top gear, doctor who, and more. the site uses wordpress as a content management system and offers features that include full episodes, live tv, and user registration. 2. optinmonster optinmoster is the leading conversion optimization software in the world. they use wordpress for different parts of their website including marketing site, blog, knowledgebase, and more. 3. wpforms wpforms is the most popular wordpress contact form plugin. the website is built on wordpress with a shopping cart, knowledgebase, blog, and more features. 4. the next web the next web is a tech and news website using wordpress to display the most recent news from all over the world. it showcases the news into categories and sections, and also offers the latest deals from popular international brands. 5. the walt disney company one of the biggest names in the media industry, the walt disney company uses wordpress for its corporate website. the website offers users recent updates about company events, career opportunities, philanthropy efforts, and more. 6. van heusen van heusen is an american fashion and clothing brand popular all over the globe. it is using wordpress with a shopping cart, newsletter subscriptions, and product galleries. 7. united states mission geneva the u.s. mission in geneva is a us state department website built with wordpress. it has multiple sections for image slider, the latest news, events, and policy pages. 8. fauna and flora international fauna and flora international (ffi) is the forest conservation innovator known for their work on conserving different species globally. the site uses wordpress as a cms to showcase its conservation campaigns, share news updates, and collect donations. 9. sweden’s official site sweden’s official site is the country’s official information portal that shares news related to business, culture, traditions, nature, facts, and society. it is built on wordpress and utilizes it in a very effective way. 10. nexstar media nexstar media is a local media site that uses wordpress as a content management system. it features news broadcasting, press releases, and more. 11. chicago weather center chicago weather center is a weather forecast site that displays temperatures and other weather updates. it uses wordpress to add a tv schedule, podcasts, shows, events, news, and more on the site. 12. creative ad awards creative ad awards is a website showcasing the most creative ads from around the globe. it uses wordpress to categorize and beautifully display those ad campaigns. 13. harvard university gazette harvard university gazette which is managed by the harvard university using wordpress as a cms for their journal. the website looks stunning where you can find news and events organized in categories. 14. the official james bond website the official james bond website uses wordpress to showcase their watch collection, display brand news, and promote bond movies. the site also integrates with social networks to showcase twitter feed in the sidebar. 15. realtor.com | news realtor is a popular real estate website. it uses wordpress for its news and insights section. they use the wordpress rss feed to fetch and display the blog content across other parts of their website. 16. gnome gnome is an open-source software suite for linux based operating systems. they use wordpress for their marketing site, which showcases features, software, and technologies sections. 17. pawprintpets pawprintpets is a website for dog and puppy owners who want to get training, consultation, and classes. using wordpress as a cms, the website also offers podcasts, blog, and a woocommerce powered online store. 18. cure cure is an international organization offering medical aid to children in underdeveloped regions. it uses wordpress for their site to share case studies, news, stories, and fundraising. 19. renault renault is one of the top car manufacturers in the world. their official website is built on wordpress where they post about innovation, history, brands, and more. 20. katy perry katy perry is a well-known american singer and songwriter. her official site is using wordpress to display the latest albums, songs, and video releases. 21. sony music sony music is the official website of the global music brand. it uses wordpress to display their featured artists, labels, and news from the music industry. 22. hip2save hip2save is a well-known deals and coupons website. it is built on wordpress to showcase discounts from popular brands from all over the world. 23. time.com time is one of the oldest american news and magazine website. the site uses wordpress to post news in categories, embed youtube videos, and publish weekly magazines. 24. sylvester stallone sylvester stallone is a popular actor and public figure known for his work in movies. his official website uses wordpress to showcase movie trailers, actor’s bio, photos, art, and more. 25. the washington post | brand studio the washington post is a leading investigative journalism website that shares news on politics, public opinions, and more. it is using wordpress for their brand studio website that showcases their interactive stories. we hope this article helped you find some inspiring examples of wordpress being used as a cms. you may also want to take a look at our list of 40+ big name brands using wordpress. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 470 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to start your own podcast (step by step) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 6 commentsleave a reply marc joslyn says: apr 29, 2018 at 8:55 pm been using wp for several years. all along i’ve wanted to convert the present setup to a cms structure. have little concern about keeping up to date with temporary postings. want a site with more or less permanent articles and pictures. using wp more like writing an article in a word processor with the commands and options of a word processor such as alphabetizing the titles of articles rather than organizing by dates or by frequency. is this possible? reply deb says: sep 29, 2014 at 1:01 pm content management system reply sivaprabu ganesan says: sep 29, 2014 at 1:11 am what about security level in wordpress compared to (joomla or drupal) ? reply pattie davidson says: sep 28, 2014 at 2:25 pm what does cms stand for? as you can tell, i’m a real beginner! reply wpbeginner staff says: sep 29, 2014 at 12:03 am content management system. reply nashwa says: sep 30, 2014 at 6:59 am contents management system we call it management system because you don’t need to develop any programme, just you manage the information you have and put it in an organized way. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.