home blog & grow how to real estate online schools business tools 0 25 successful copywriting experts you should know looking for some copywriting tips or want to hire someone who can write a persuasive message that targets your audience? then check out these “top 25 copywriting experts.” in their blogs, you will find tips and advice on how to write succulent and engaging copy that your visitors will love. kate toon kate is an award winning copywriter from down under who also runs the clever copywriting school. her specialty is seo copywriting including video script copywriting. what’s the one word that’s ruining your copywriting? karon thackston karon is the president of marketing words, inc., a copywriting and digital marketing agency based in south carolina. she is an accomplished author and regular speaker in industry events. the c in the face formula for copywriting lorraine reguly lorraine is a freelance writer, blogger. she gives advice on copywriting and blogging and helps others become authors. her services also include editing and ghostwriting. 4 phases to a successful online author’s life (+ how to become an author) lauren tharp lauren is the owner of littlezotz writing where she provides copywriting, and ghostwriting services. she is long time los angeles resident and also helps young teens to start their writing career. what to do when writing keeps you from writing jo linsdell jo is the founder of writers and authors blog and also the organizer of the "promo day", an annual online networking event for writers and bloggers. how to find your writing muse lisa tener lisa is an accomplished author, speaker, and award winning book writing coach. her clients signed up 5-6 figure book deals with top publishers. lisa is a sought after speaker in industry events and presents at the harvard medical school. staring at a blank page? here’s your writing cure charlotte rains dixon charlotte is a writer, writing coach, ghostwriter, and novelist. she has published three non-fiction books and numerous articles and stories. she mentors writers at the writer's loft, and room to write, in nashville, tennessee. what to do when you don’t know what to write bob bly bob is a freelance copywriter and information marketer with 3 decades of experience. he is the author of the copywriter's handbook, and the complete idiot's guide to direct marketing. the 3 differences between a direct response copywriter and an above the line copywriter dianna huff dianna is the founder and president, huff industrial marketing which helps small, family-run industrial manufacturing companies grow through marketing. she is an expert in b2b marketing communications and lead generation. six super easy ways to create an “information rich” website gloria rand gloria is in internationally recognized expert in seo copywriting and social media marketing. she is also a certified high performance speaker. she served as a producer and writer for public television’s nightly business report. 12 step guide to content writing [infographic] len smith len is an expert copywriter and runs copywriting on demand writing service from uk. his clients include the biggest organizations around the world. he also runs the writers guru website. how to brief a copywriter julie anne eason julie is a bestselling author and a professional ghostwriter for over 20 years. she enjoys working with entrepreneurs, speakers, experts, and other business people write, publish, and market books. how to repurpose copywriting for maximum value rachel foster rachel is an expert b2b copywriter helping clients to attract high-quality leads. she shares her marketing tips and best practices in her fresh marketing blog. 5 keys to an amazing b2b content experience neville medhora neville is the expert copywriter who is behind the huge success of appsumo. he teaches copywriting at his site kopywriting kourse. he also runs his financial blog at nevblog. how to become a copywriter (with no experience) carol tice carol is a freelance writer from washington state. she helps writers earn more from their writing gigs. she blogs about writing at make a living writing. the truth about how much freelance writers make lisa manyon lisa is the business marketing architect and provides strategic copywriting and marketing solutions through her company write on creative writing services. she regularly speaks in industry events on marketing. ask lisa: help creating my marketing message for my start-up? heather lloyd martin heather started seo copywriting when google didn’t exist! she helps writers understand the art and science of seo copywriting and created the seo copywriting certification training program. 10 b2b seo copywriting tips for 2016 susan greene susan is a freelance copywriter and marketing consultant, based in orlando. with her fresh, conversational writing style, she helps clients with their website copywriting and search engine optimization. quality web site copywriting & why it matters for your business karly edwards karly is an experienced copywriter based in cardiff. she and her brother shane edwards runs web design, development & copywriting agency in uk. why you need a brand personality michel fortin michel is a veteran copywriter, best-selling author, public speaker, and a marketing consultant for about 30 years and the ceo of workaholics4hire.com. his famous sales letter sold over a million dollars online on the launch day! dead copywriters don’t tell stories jeff sexton jeff is an accomplished writer and started his copywriting career in 2004. he techs copywriting through his course called how to write powerfully and clearly. ira glass on advertising part iii sally ormond sally ormond is freelance copywriter and runs her company briar copywriting base in uk. she provides seo copywriting to businesses of all sizes and industries. she also runs freelance copywriter’s blog. the differences between in-house writers and professional copywriters dean rieck dean an expert copywriter and called "the best direct response strategist and copywriter." in his blogs he provides tips on copy editing, design, creativity, psychology, and freelancing. he provides copywriting and design services through his company direct creative. why good copy goes bad: are you stupid or just ignorant? nick usborne nick's passion is writing and helps copywriters, freelancers and small companies grow and prosper through his blog and coaching. he knows how to "sell with stories." long copy or short copy – which works best? matt ambrose matt is the owner of copywriter’s crucible where he provides b2b copywriting, email marketing and content marketing services for various channels. his blog is one of the top resources for aspiring copywriters and business owners for any copywriting tips. 15 punchy copywriting tips so, you can see that these accomplished copywriters provide a wealth of information in their blogs, speaking engagements and newsletters. make sure you check out some of their posts above. gautam saha blog & grow gautam saha follow us follow @blogtrepreneur home about us archives advertise earnings disclaimer contact us privacy policy copyright text 2018 by blogtrepreneur - for busy entrepreneurs.