barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up humor 25 shocking dog sex “facts” you don’t need to know share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest katie kirnan writer shares share tweet pin welcome to bark after dark, a series of hilarious but slightly unusual articles we post in the wee hours of the morning for you weirdos night owls. not for the faint of heart, weak of stomach, or low of humor. enjoy! let’s face it. sex can be messy. but it doesn’t have to be. whether you’re a human or a dog, the more we know about sex, the better we are at approaching the subject with intelligence, poise, and maybe even a sense of humor. with this in mind, here are some outrageous, sensational, mind-boggling dog sex “facts” that you and your pup just gotta know: 1. like humans, dogs are often “growers not showers.” the size of a flaccid pup penis has no correlation to its size when erect. so you shouldn’t judge the dog dicks you see. that’s just their resting peen. 2. female dogs need not be offended if their mate falls asleep post-coitus. orgasms activate the “rest and digest” function in the dog’s parasympathetic nervous system, causing them to get sleepy. 3. the average length of a dog penis is i have no idea, we probably don’t need to know this. 4. dogs with a tv or laptop in the bedroom reported having less sex than their canine counterparts who go electronics-free. 5. when discussing dog sexual and reproductive habits, male dogs are referred to as “studs,” while female dogs are referred to as “bitches.” i don’t need to conduct any further research in order to confidently conclude that these phrases were coined by a male human with a skinny wiener. 6. the dogeth doth protesteth too mucheth? approximately 20% of female dogs and a whopping 80% of male dogs have lied about the number of sexual partners they’ve had in their lifetime. apparently females underreport, while males overreport — exaggerating up to six times the actual number of pairings. take it easy, fellas! 7. every day, 200 million human couples in the world engage in sexual intercourse, which means that roughly 60 million dogs are watching humans have sex on a daily basis. 8. dogs are really not that different from us: a male dog’s libido will be greatly reduced if they feel scared or insubordinate, like if they find out the female dog earns more money. 9. according to a study conducted at the smell and taste treatment and research foundation in chicago, the most arousing smell to male humans is a combination of pumpkin pie and lavender. to male dogs, it’s a blend of bacon and week-old garbage. also female dogs that are in heat. 10. female dogs think about sex about 5 times a day. perhaps unsurprisingly, male dogs think about it a whopping 1,000. this is likely due to the fact that the drive to mate in females is more seasonal. 11. male puppies engage in the act of mounting as early as five weeks, although they have no idea what they’re doing or why they’re doing it. 12. dogs who have sex within a relationship reported greater pleasure than those engaging in no-strings-attached humping. 13. unlike humans, male dogs actually have a bone in their penis, called the baculum. 14. the average speed of ejaculation is 27 miles per hour. that’s nearly as fast as a great dane running at full tilt! great danes can run up to 30 miles per hour, so if a great dane ejaculates while running at max speed, that means his ejaculation is actually more like 57 miles per hour. yikes! 15. a survey of 2,500 male and female dogs showed that marvin gaye’s classic “let’s get it on” is the song that best describes their sex lives. 16. in order to attract the attention of a seemingly distracted suitor, a female dog will often back up into him, flicking her tail in a provocative way so that he has no choice but to consider mounting. kinda like this. 17. dogs are at risk of stds, too. one of the most common is called ctvt, that is, canine transmissible venereal tumor, and yes, it’s just as nasty as it sounds. the cancer spreads during the act of love-making — when tumorous cells from the host canine shed and take up residence in the other canine. 18. dogs can also transmit canine herpesvirus — which is exactly what you think it is. the herp. 19. when a male dog first mounts a female dog, his penis is flaccid. this is also a common occurrence at the beginning of human intercourse. 20. only 31% of female dogs report experiencing orgasm during intercourse. 21. doggy style among dogs is a lot different than it is amongst humans. (at least… i think it is. read this and then tell us what you think.) dogs seal the deal by “tying the knot.” that doesn’t mean they get married. it means the female’s vagina contracts against the male’s penis, resulting in a “dog knot.” then, the male twists away from the female so that penis-vagina is connected butt-to-butt, giving his sperm the best possible chance of penetrating her egg. and that’s how you do it doggy style. 22. dog erections last anywhere from 25 minutes to over an hour. hot diggity dog, that’s at least an episode of television! 23. at the end of sex, a male dog’s genitals explode. 24. oh wait, that’s honeybees. sorry. 25. there is an international canine semen bank. and that seems like a good note to end on. have fun out there and be safe! featured images via @kira_thechi/instagram, @real_09_/instagram, @slavikovakacka/instagram, and @dorydalb/instagram for more, check out these articles! 5 reasons dogs hump that have nothing to do with s-e-x 17 commonly accepted dog “facts” that are totally wrong 11 perfectly natural things your dog does that are just plain weird here are the health risks posed by your dog’s dirty booty dogs have more than one way to tell if their hooman mom is pregnant comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up katie kirnan writer the dog mom holiday anthem is the only song you need this season an open letter to the balls who left me a dog's plea to pokémon: give me my human back 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go