home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » arts and craft » 25+ art and craft boredom busters 25+ art and craft boredom busters march 14, 2020 brittany bailey leave a comment 114shares facebook twitter pinterest with the world looking at impending quarantine and school closures, i bet you’re wondering how you’ll keep boredom at bay. have no fear, i’m here to share a bunch of diy art and craft ideas you can do with (or without) children. i hope some of these projects brighten your day. let me know in the comments if you’ve tried any of these craft projects. 25+ art & craft boredom busters to keep you entertained during quarantine if you’re on a quest to keep the kids entertained, i have more than 25 boredom buster diy art and craft projects for you and your kids. this list should give you something to do over the next few weeks. just a note that you may not have all the materials for these craft projects, but i urge you to think creatively about what you do have on hand and what you can substitute. if you find good substitutes, please share them in the comment section. thanks and stay safe everyone. painting with alcohol inks has easily become my favorite mindless craft project. you don’t have to worry about perfection, just blow your stress away with this art. i had a blast making these bracelets with my nieces. with some assistance, even little kids can make their own diy leather word bracelet. have some leftover plain fabric? consider making beautiful kids’ thumbprint envelope pillows to keep or gift to someone special. here’s another sewing project sure to please the kids that love their stuffed animals. let your child design their own monster dolls and then sew it. speaking of sewing, if you’re trying to skip over these sewing crafts because you don’t know how to sew. i have 25 diy sewing projects to help you learn to sew. oh, what to do with all those broken crayons? wait, don’t pitch them! why not make melted heart crayons and then use them after they cool to make fun and colorful designs? have a bin of single socks? time to use up those solos and make cute sock snowmen! my mom came up with this project and i love how adorable her snowmen turned out. this was one of my favorite art projects involving nature. take the kids for a hike in the woods and collect items to make sunprints. while you’re on that hike in the woods, look for some blooming flowers to make pounded flower art paper. i still use these glass bead magnets on our fridge. the best thing is they are so easy to make and the kids will love choosing their own pictures to use. if you liked the glass bead magnets, you might like this upcycled bottlecap flower magnet craft. add photos of the kids or other images inside the flowers. with summer just a season away, why not make a colorful summer garden flag using a placemat (or leftover fabric.) if you liked the summer garden flag, you might really like this state pride garden flag. learn how you can make your own sea shell memory game with the kids and then let them play the game. this is an easy craft you can make using almost anything you have lying around if you don’t have seashells. use bottle caps, or just cardstock paper. this diy dragonfly from a whisk and skewer was a fun craft project to make with my friend’s kids. all it took was a skewer and a whisk. have some plain pieces of fabric or tea towels lying around? why not make potato block prints to decorate plain tea towels or cover stained ones. if you have washi tape and a full recycling bin, you have at least an hour worth of time spent making these easy washi tape vases. little ones always seem to get bumps and bruises. this adorable boo boo bear ice and heat pack is a cute project you can make with your kids (and they can be comforted by it after their next fall.) if you have some extra yard sticks (or scrap lathe wood), you can make these stylish diy yardstick stars. spring is here and this is the perfect opportunity to dress up a plain wreath you have lying in storage. all you need is some scrapbook paper and buttons to create this one-of-a-kind spring paper flower and button wreath. this was a really fun project i created with the kids one summer. if you don’t have plain shirts or rit dye, use fabric and watered down acrylic paint. anything goes with this fun spray-dyed shirts craft project. best of all, you can get the kids outside (to keep the mess to a minimum.) the weather isn’t cooperating for outdoor activities today? why not create this temporary indoor hopscotch with painter’s tape. sure the holidays are months away, but you can still make fun little wine cork deer or other animals using this simple tutorial. want to get creative and make a storage solution at the same time? if so, you’ll love these creative block pen, pencil, or paintbrush storage blocks. the block construction is probably better left to an adult but the kids can safely decorate these blocks. have a plain (or stained) shirt laying around? why not let the kids go to town making doodle shirts. one of my favorite crafts that takes almost no effort are these decorative glass jar votives made with recycled jars and scrap paper and tissue paper. but, you can decorate them with anything you have on hand thin enough to be seen through. still have some leftover jars? why not paint them with chalk paint and add some fresh flowers to cheer up your day (or a friend’s day.) mailbox looking a little dull? if you have car magnet material, you can make this custom painted magnetic mailbox covers. still looking for more things to do? why not organize those craft supplies with one or more of these creative art supply storage solutions. do you have some great boredom buster ideas to share? please share them in the comments below. i know we could all use some good ideas to keep busy over the next few weeks. share this post by pinning or sharing it on social media to help others keep their sanity during a quarantine event. 114shares facebook twitter pinterest you might also like: arts and craft leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok