skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 26 best adsense optimized wordpress themes for blog, magazine and business websites 2020 26 best adsense optimized wordpress themes for blog, magazine and business websites 2020 march 4, 2020 aigars theme collections 202 comments a huge list of the best adsense wordpress themes to improve revenue and crt. adsense optimization is a great way to boost your click-through rate, by engineering little details which really make a difference. several companies have been working hard to deliver adsense wordpress themes which they optimize to boost your click-through rate. the trick is to get the perfect balance between adverts and content. the adverts must be present but not obnoxious; the content must still be king. adsense is by far the easiest monetization method for a simple website such as blogs, niche websites, magazine, news, and forums because it doesn’t require any technical knowledge to set up and use. it’s also the best paying cpc/ppc network due to its high popularity and high competition between advertisers. we use it for colorlib as well but it is not our main income because developers are not the ones who like to click on ads. adsense and seo go hand in hand and you can get much higher cpc from organic traffic that comes from google than from social or direct traffic. in that in mind, you might want to check these awesome seo-friendly wordpress themes. enough about adsense itself because you are here looking for an adsense optimized wordpress theme and here you will find the best ones. newspaper if you are searching for an excellent wordpress adsense theme, then choose newspaper. this product specializes in generating revenue for its owners by increasing the website’s popularity. the tagdiv composer page builder lets you create layouts just by dragging and dropping elements from the list. you can do this with your ads, too. with newspaper theme, you can creatively create pages and articles using the tagdiv composer page builder and the pre-designed design templates from the amazing tagdiv cloud library. with this, users will benefit from 810+ unique already built templates that you can easily import, 404, category, tags, author, search pages, or single posts. you can tweak every aspect of the design with tagdiv composer. add countless big grid style combinations, flex blocks, reviews, video playlists, and more elements that will make your content look fantastic. you must strike a fine balance for your business. furthermore, you must generate revenue from advertisements without irritating readers. thankfully, newspaper has implemented a modern, intelligent ad system. now, every ad location has a specific box where you can insert codes. for google adsense, it automatically searches for the corresponding banner size. newspaper comes with 18 ad locations that apply globally and will help you maximize your revenue stream. the template also lets you include advertisements on individual posts or pages, through the tagdiv composer and the ad box or single post content elements. list articles are some of the most attractive content formats. however, it takes a lot of effort to publish a well-researched list. newspaper makes time by implementing a smart list system that can automatically create top-quality lists. this theme offers a large number of useful tools, and you should certainly use it for your business strategy. more info / download demo divi the online world is the new frontier for ambitious entrepreneurs. many popular websites manage to receive millions of views, and that attention can be marketed. the creators made divi an adsense optimized wordpress theme. it understands online advertisement and ad placement. its excellent design and gorgeous layouts will be able to attract scores of customers and followers. with divi, the sky’s the limit! when attempting to generate revenue via online advertisement, you must attempt to gain mass-appeal. divi allows website owners to target foreign demographics, given that it is fully-translatable. it even supports right to left writing. with this theme, you can rest easy knowing that resizing errors were eliminated. indeed, your content and ads can be showcased on the screens of smartphones, desktop computers, laptops and tablets. cross-browser compatibility was included as well. basically, divi is a flexible solution for any talented business person. in terms of customization, the owner is given absolute freedom. there are literally hundreds of possible settings and options for your pages. you can either construct layouts from scratch, or import premade versions. regardless of your choice, the result will look incredible. if you wish to sample divi without having to spend any money, the developers included a live theme preview for you. more info / download demo gillion (most popular) gillion is an incredible adsense wordpress theme designed for news, writing, magazines and blogs. it serves a communication tool by all means. it comes with 7 demos, premium support and awesome plug-ins. gillion uses visual composer and unyson. it also features an admin panel built to make users comfortable. moreover, gillion requires no coding and it has been seo optimized. layout is responsive and makes this theme mobile friendly and all screens adaptable. use its colors pallets to customize unlimited colors and introduce up to 5 blog pages. post with 6 different formats and share it through its integrated social media icons. gillion is the trendy, simple and smooth theme made just for you! go for gillion! more info / download demo cheerup cheerup is a wordpress theme fully oriented to blogs, magazines and story writing. it comes with over 200 awesome handcrafted layouts. you will get it with several demos and more constantly on the way. cheerup is flexible and adaptable and all browsers compatible. use its live customizer and admin panel advanced options to change things quick and easy. the design is also responsive and retina ready. cheerup uses high-resolution graphics and yet it is light weighted and fast. set up your businesses with subscriptions and stores. use mailchimp and woocommerce, completely integrated. cheerup has lots of headers and footers styles available with icons to add. social media sharing buttons and search toolbars are also found. play with 5 beautiful sliders and tons widgets. cheerup aims for versatility and visual appeal to make readers crazy. if you are looking for a new edge on your business or website, this is for you. cheerup features multiple sidebars, an off-canvas mobile menu and logo space settings! it is seo and contact form compatible too! have fun with its lots of typography and icons to choose from. it uses well known typekit and google fonts. get its premium support and documentation to get started! start using cheerup! more info / download demo jevelin jevelin is a colorful and mobile-friendly adsense wordpress multi-purpose blog and magazine theme. its features include over ten different and imaginative portfolio layout combinations you can import with a single click to showcase your finest visual works, greatest professional accomplishments, your most delicious dishes and meals or any other content you want to show off to the world at large. with multiple portfolio overlays as well as multiple portfolio single item layouts you can fiddle with, you’ll never run out of ways to impress your audience. try jevelin today, and see for yourself! more info / download demo magplus magplus is a clever and modern responsive wordpress blog and magazine website theme. this theme is the ideal platform for putting together eloquent websites for any industry. magplus is an intuitive framework for the coding-free design of effective business blogs. visual composer makes customization quick and seamless. a range of premium plugins provides plentiful functionality for your every page. 150 handcrafted elements let you build anything you can dream up. 40 demo websites, dozens of templates and headers, and infinite layouts await within. fast and lightweight, magplus keeps server loads low with fast-loading, optimized code. responsive bootstrap coding lets you reach every user on any device and browser. best of all, magplus is adsense-ready out of the box. monetizing your content has never been easier or faster. grow your audience with powerful seo enhancements and maximize your adsense profits. get magplus today! more info / download demo webify once you grow your online space to a certain volume, you start to brainstorm what would be the best approach to monetize it. with an adsense optimized wordpress theme, it is pretty obvious that you would want to add google advertisements to your website. thanks to webify, the tool has all and everything predefined for you. what’s more? webify is also fully compatible with all modern plugins which you can integrate at any time you want, expanding your online project to new territories. without the need to give it a second thought, indeed, webify is 100% responsive, instantly reshaping to all devices. moreover, webify is also compatible with web browsers and retina screens, fast loading and optimized for seo. you can craft the exact page you want without a sweat. while yesterday was the best moment to start something new, today is the second-best time to finally kick off your project like a pro. do it with webify and never look back. more info / download demo goodlife in many ways, the web is like the wild west: only those with an entrepreneurial spirit can survive. goodlife is an adsense wordpress theme for users who understand the demands of the market. it allows you to craft jaw-dropping websites that are sure to impress many visitors. a fine balance must be struck with advertising, because too many ads can actually discourage people from frequenting your page. successful owners realize that the placement of ads is the most important factor. thankfully, the visual composer plugin makes it easy for website owners to organize advertisements and customize their layouts. upon installation, goodlife will have perfect jetpack and social integration. social media profiles are retrieved in intervals which are determined by the administrator. you can even track your position on search engine rankings, due to the rankie wordpress plugin. despite its $16 price tag, it was added free of charge. in addition, this theme has the essential grid plugin, which allows users to showcase multiple content formats in a personalized grid. goodlife is compatible with any device, regardless of its screen size. be sure to access the theme preview, for more information. more info / download demo the voux the voux is a highly responsive, retina-ready and comprehensive magazine theme for wordpress. pages are fully customizable through the visual composer from which user-friendly headers may be created, together with mega menus which make use of tags, sub-categories and/or categories as a source. position the ‘home’ header either at the center or on the left of the page and also include an ‘in news detail’ page header. browsing through news articles on the page is conveniently designed for users as the next article loads while they scroll down. the link on the browser also updates as the page being viewed changes. this feature is possible courtesy of infinite scrolling. besides news articles, the theme also showcases stylish full-screen galleries. moreover, the voux incorporates social networking plug-ins such as facebook, twitter, google plus, and pinterest which is a first for themeforest. sharing data is stored via wordpress and is visible even on the backend. cache period for the data and preference of social networks to be used can be modified through theme options. finally, you can view the theme on all devices without compromising the quality of the page or any of the elements. more info / download demo herald developed by an elite author, herald is an excellent adsense theme for wordpress websites. it offers a modern and charming design, with more than 500 articles listing layouts. there are also numerous customization options, and there is no need for programming knowledge. even novice users can install herald by simply following the informative setup and installation videos. additionally, the creators built this theme for speed and lightning-fast loading times. what’s more? users can easily upload images for articles in various formats and aspect ratios. you can either select a pre-determined size, or implement custom parameters. of course, there are many monetization settings. it is possible to place ad banners on the website homepage, articles, or posts. readers will also be able to access content directly from their different devices. the layout is fully responsive, retina-ready and cross-browser compatible. writers no longer have to tie themselves into their desk chairs, as herald allows them to work from their phones, while on the move. you can also create your own professional online store by using the popular woocommerce plugin. selling your merchandise has never been easier. you can assign every category in a different layout color, making it easier for readers to navigate your page. more info / download demo interactive interactive is a down to earth, affordable wordpress theme that enables anyone to easily design their ideal, high-quality website. a veritable cornucopia of practical options and features are available for enhancing your website. these powerful, versatile tools will definitely make a mark on your viewers, enticing them to subscribe to your content. if you wish to get a feel for the theme itself before shelling out anything, you can view the implemented live demo of it which is currently available. options for making your website stand out are endless and guarantee that no two websites using this theme will look alike. infinite permutations of color schemes, an amount of google fonts exceeding 630, automated language translation features to globalize your impact and influence across latitudes and longitudes, this theme definitely has it all. and a peculiar feature; the off-canvas mobile menu that hides automatically when not in use will delight your users. in addition, the creators designed interactive to have minimal bounce rates and no discernible lag, parsing at light speed. loading times are rather rapid, to the great benefit of your search engine rankings. a hybrid of performance and convenience with the best of both worlds, this theme is certainly one to watch. more info / download demo wordx wordx is an elegant, understated wordpress theme, best employed by online magazines, content aggregators, travel blogs and perhaps photojournalists. the creators built this theme to handle massive amounts of content and large, high resolution images and media, building blocks of content-based websites. the general design philosophy behind wordx is complete user control of matters as diverse as color, fonts, styles, child themes, and pretty much all that you can change anything that you can click (or hover) to suit your website’s aesthetic or tone. building on this extreme customization capacity, wordx then integrates a series of features for building your website from a catch-all of customizable tools to a shining beacon of content for all your intended demographics. right off the bat is the language translation feature, which instantly offers your content in dozens of languages spoken in hundreds of nations by billions of users. add to this wordx’s potent seo optimization, and you’ll have a myriad of new users each day, stumbling upon your content on their favorite search engines. wordx’s famously low bounce rates will keep the majority of these in your website, where the carousel feature will show them the very best you have to offer, gaining you early subscriptions easily. and all of this feeds into wordx’s native adsense integration, turning this entire venture into a profitable once, all of a sudden! more info / download demo newspaper newspaper is a stunning wordpress theme that the creators designed to be both adaptable and responsive. it is ideal for content-rich websites like blogs which it organizes well in different ways in different categories. it also has advanced typography and multiple fonts, colors, and backgrounds. furthermore, its sleek look and feel is sure to impress. now for a small amount of money, anyone can have a professionally looking website. newspaper offers various post layouts and media-rich features that can showcase a wide variety of content. there is a demo available which shows what a beautiful website it can make. the layout is neat and adaptable, working well on all devices. the creators optimized this theme for speed and for it to work well with other websites using its search engine optimization. you can quickly translate your content into other languages so anyone can access your website anywhere. it has intuitive navigation with tabs which makes it easy to find your way around. with the number of options and features, there’s no end to the things you can do with it. it has many useful sections such as a feature section to showcase your best new content and an author section so people can follow their favorite contributors. more info / download demo blurb if you would like to rock the online world with an adsense optimized wordpress theme, get things going with blurb. and if you are focused on affiliate marketing particularly, again blurb is your best bet. it comes with so many layouts and elements that you can put into practice without a hitch. let’s face it, coding knowledge is not necessary, thanks to elementor page builder. you can make any type of customization tweak with the method of dragging and dropping. three homes and over thirty internal pages are what you will find in the blurb kit. you can easily mix and match the available and have a full website set in a little breeze. blurb is indeed optimized for all devices, web browsers, fast loading and seo. it does require very little work to launch a new project/online business with blurb. more info / download demo malina if you want to make a blog and you also want to make money with it, it should be a long-term plan. of course, not that money should be your main objective for building a blog. you should have fun along the way, and if you can later monetize it, that’s even better. with an adsense optimized wordpress theme, like malina, you can get things going on the web like a pro without a sweat. malina comes with a bunch of different home designs for you to put into play right away. if it happens that the demo suits your style, you can expect a speedy site realization. moreover, malina sports various custom-made widgets, grid layout, one click demo data installation, five headers, instagram feed and support for contact form 7. every malina user also gets access to free support, in-depth documentation and regular updates. more info / download demo the issue one of the best ways to monetize an online magazine is by doing it through adsense. if you are in the process of starting a new project, you can now make it happen with the issue and seventeen different samples it comes with. whether you would like to create a niche or a general online magazine, the issue supports all project ideas you have. along with home demos, of course, you also get all the necessary inner page layouts to mix and match. socal integration, ten header styles, over ten custom widgets, lightbox galleries, complete control over typography and nifty reactions are some of the distinct features of the issue. when it comes to adsense, the issue has strategically placed banner locations across the design to get the most out of it. more info / download demo truepixel truepixel is built on mythemeshop’s trademark framework, which is brand new and was released not long back. the benefits include improved loading time on the page and with the widgets, amongst other nice bits of information including the fact that it has been handwritten with html5 and css3, and cleaned up for added readability. the website, of course, is responsive and adsense optimized as well as seo optimized and every other kind of optimization you can think of. in short, it is optimal. it is a very clean and minimalistic theme, and costs only $35. mythemeshop also offers the chance to get all 67 of their themes for $67. more info / download demo nominal well, with this theme they certainly know how to appeal to the lazy adsense user. they say “no more tinkering around with confusing ad inserts and theme editing. the ad spaces are all widgetized, meaning you can just click and save for ad placements”. sounds wonderful. written in html5 and css3, this responsive, optimized theme will stay fresh for a few years yet. it has social media compatibility and supports unlimited colors and backgrounds. they’ve even added some nice extra features to the back-end of the theme, allowing you to fully customize your own dashboard to make it “prettier to look at”. the website is fast and seo friendly, ensuring that after you’ve drawn your customer to the website you don’t bore them with waiting times. more info / download demo sahifa sahifa is the wordpress equivalent of a swiss army knife. the developers packed this theme with amazing features, each implemented in order to improve your website. sahifa offers the best of both worlds, as it is powerful, yet beautiful and intuitive. such innovation usually comes at a cost. with other themes, many complex website elements can have trouble adapting to the smaller screens of mobile devices. thankfully, sahifa has eliminated all resizing and compatibility problems. tablet and smart phone users will be able to easily access your content. in addition, the layout will work with any browser and operating system. there is no limit to this theme’s adaptability. also, your website layout will have 3 variations: boxed, wide, and framed. you can swiftly change these settings at any time. for many online companies, merchandising is an important part of their business plan. moreover, sahifa has incorporated the woocommerce plugin, allowing for the creation of online commerce stores. this is a very reliable product, given that thousands of websites from across the world have chosen woocommerce. massive pages can only grow if they can accommodate a large number of users. with wpml capabilities, you can now target people from non-english speaking audiences, in order to increase your view count. more info / download demo gorgo if you fancy minimalistic web design, you will surely dig gorgo. this wordpress blog and online magazine theme is a perfect starting point to kick off your project in style. and once you grow it to a desirable volume, you can easily monetize your website with google adsense. gorgo has very many different styles to choose from, light and dark look and even comes with the addition of an online shop. yes, with gorgo, you can actually sell digital and physical products, too. however, that is something you can expand to later on or even introduce paid or free membership programs. this only tells you that gorgo brings to the table tons of options and possibilities. what’s more? gorgo also comes with tons of integrations, like mailchimp, contact form 7, instagram feed, woocommerce, yoast seo and wpml. kick off your own thing with gorgo and boost your potential through the roof. more info / download demo baloo baloo is another impressive, full of goodies, wordpress theme for blogs. no matter if you are all about fashion, traveling, food, politics, health and nutrition, sports, yoga, you name it, with baloo, you can create any type of blog you desire. there are five main styles at your disposal and tons more amenities that unlock a whole new horizon of possibilities. on top of that, once you introduce your creativity to baloo, you have unlimited solutions. cleanness and elegance are the two main characteristics of baloo. it has a very minimal look to it, perfect for displaying compelling content on all devices. speaking of devices, baloo is 100% mobile-friendly, as well as browser compatible and retina ready. some more features include sticky sidebar, instagram feed, social media icons, drop-down menu, contact form and four post types. more info / download demo vidorev designing a website is truly an art, and it is only natural to have it your way to characterize your brand even better. with vidorev, you can be in total control. this adsense optimized wordpress theme is the coolest platform concept for everyone who wishes to build a video review website, but you can use it for an assortment of other ideas, too. you can now create a quick online magazine or a blog with the available material that vidorev brings to the table. vidorev has a minimalistic appeal yet it still looks professional and attention-grabbing. looking fanciful on retina devices and loaded with impressive features, this theme lets you stand out from the masses. additionally, vidorev allows you to automatically import youtube videos and even start a community, thanks to the integration of buddypress. more info / download demo kolyoum normally, creating a website comprises a bunch of coding. on the contrary, kolyoum goes against the grain, ensuring you an easier website building without inputting any of it. no coding and no prior experience needed! spontaneous and flexible are the characteristics that make kolyoum the definitive adsense optimized wordpress theme. choose from this theme’s wide variation of predefined demos, all looking contemporary and slick. its collection caters to several niches like gaming, technology, news and so forth. naturally responsive, you can access your website on all devices. kolyoum promotes publishing pristine visual content that anyone will love, making sure your users have an unforgettable experience. loads of ready-made demos, rtl support, seo and performance optimized, you name it, kolyoum makes sure you are fully sorted out. thanks to the wpbakery page builder, you can effortlessly create a custom version enhanced with your signature style. more info / download demo truemag: ad & adsense optimized magazine truemag boasts ultimate monetization; at $55, you’d certainly hope so. in practice, the adverts do slip in and out, weaving between the content and edging into your peripheral vision. the creators made this theme responsive, ensuring the presence of ads regardless of the device. it comes with two different skins, depending on the tone of the website you might want to either use light or dark. what’s more? this theme is compatible with woocommerce – how’s that for ultimate monetization? they also written the code properly and made it conform to w3c standard so you can tweak the theme right at the source. in fact, most of the praise received is regarding their incredibly clean code. that makes a change from some other theme providers. more info / download demo goliath goliath is fully responsive and resizes sleekly different kinds of devices and screen sizes. it offers users easy-to-customize theme layout, thanks to its powerful framework powered by bootstrap technology. goliath allows you to set up your website just the way you want through the planetshine control panel. the theme’s beautiful typography helps you gain the attention of your target web visitors as well as send your brand message across the web. it comes with powerful shortcodes and widgets, customizable sidebar and let website admin edit the appearance of goliath using the live visual editor. it also offers a unique particle parallax background to make your website background come alive. moreover, you can quickly and easily create, arrange, and organize certain elements in your website using the visual composer integrated into the theme. adding visually appealing sliders to your website is also trouble-free because goliath wordpress theme comes with slider revolution plugin. furthermore, this modern and adsense-optimized theme includes a drag and drop mega menu to improve the design of your website and enhance the navigation in your website. it also includes product review feature designed for reviewers. goliath is woocommerce ready so you can set up an online shop within your website without a fuss. with its bbpress plugin integration, you are able to make your website become more social and interactive. this theme is also wpml ready, includes psd files, modern photo galleries, auto hot articles, and smart sidebar. it comes with a brilliant ads management feature that lets you set up and organize the banners or google ads in your website. lastly, this theme features a strong social media integration and fully optimized for search engine optimization. more info / download demo newsmag pro newsmag pro is a fantastic premium and adsense optimized wordpress theme, ideal for crafting online magazines. no matter what your niche is, newsmag pro has no problem adjusting to all your ideas and regulations. you can use the tool with the out-of-the-box default settings or you can enhance it at free will. bear in mind, you don’t really need to know how to code to be able to work with newsmag pro. anyone can do it, even a newbie! what’s more? newsmag pro has neat and practical headers and footers, enticing and custom sliders, many useful widgets and fully supports all post types. you can start your own online platform with ease when you employ newsmag pro. and when you begin to experience growth in traffic, you can effortlessly monetize newsmag pro, thanks to adsense integration. more info / download demo adsense plugins for wordpress most users don’t want to change a theme in order to maximize their adsense revenue. therefore, here is a list of best wordpress plugins for adsense ad management on your website. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. adsadsenseadvertisinggooglemarketingpremiumseowordpress themes share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts best medicine and pharmacy wordpress themes to attract new patients to your site no matter how great is your pharmacy business, if it doesn’t make a sound, you’re… 20 best cleaning company wordpress themes 2020 here you will find all the best cleaning company wordpress themes to kickstart your website… 37 awesome food wordpress themes for food recipe sharing & showcase 2020 a hand-picked list of the best food wordpress themes designed and developed to showcase food… top 30+ beautiful feminine and girly wordpress themes 2019 for your inspiration it might surprise you to learn that feminine & girly wordpress themes are not only… champion football and soccer wordpress themes 2020 panning and building a sports website that attracts millions of fans can be a pain… 17 furniture & woodwork wordpress themes 2020 so, you need a furniture website. aside from that, you wish to hook it without… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 75 elementor templates & sections to customize your wordpress sites next post: 28 ultimate startup wordpress themes in 2020 for launching your startup’s website we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×