now trending: top 2 online jobs by emo... work from home : the ult... data entry jobs : the ne... part time jobs : a colle... menu home about earn money top 2 online jobs free ebooks to make money more online jobs payments online payment process payment proofs paypal india guide blog online survey jobs ⇑click above⇑ for more jobs 26 online jobs to earn money online without investment from home in india here is the ultimate list of 26 online jobs ideas divided in 5 categories that can help you earn an income on a timely basis without necessary investment & you can make use of these jobs to earn money from home or anywhere you want. the only thing that you have to do now is read the below content for at least 20 minutes with full concentration & you would definitely figure out some ways to make money using internet for yourself. just search for any site or money making program mentioned below in bold letters or even the heading of a particular job on google which you want more information about or contact us. you can also download free guides on money making on the internet apart from reading our ideas. adsearn rs.5000 dailyfree online surveysget paid for surveys it doesn’t matter what is your age, either you are a housewife or student or want some extra money for costs related to daily expenditure, you are going to be successful with these online jobs from home if you read this list & most importantly work to earn a livelihood part time or full time. here are the 5 categories with 26 online job ideas :- category 1: our top 2 most recommended job sites click here to read about our top category jobs. these are the top 2 jobs which are basically 2 websites working on the same business model but are owned by different firms in different countries. apart from the link above, some basic points about these 2 websites are provided below also. 1. neobux it is a website online since 2008 & pays approx. $100,000 per day instantly to its members all over the world & lakhs of indians are making a lot of use of this site for past few years. actually, just like clixsense it is a platform that works on the business model of get paid to (gpt) or paid to click (ptc) where members are paid to click ads, complete offers & making referrals. read our post on neobux review to understand why this is a legitimate business website where you can make money without investment. click the below green button to go to neobux. [button-green url=”http://www.emoneyjobs.com/visit/neo” target=”_blank” position=”middle”]take me to neobux >[/button-green] 2. clixsense it is a website online since 2007 & has a great business model with a very well explained earning streams like doing mini tasks, completing offers or surveys, referring people & watching ads. the payment system is also very good & stable. it is the most trusted website in this business so registering for free on this site is highly recommended. read our post on clixsense review to find out its various aspects. click on the below green button to go to clixsense. [button-green url=”http://www.emoneyjobs.com/visit/clixsense” target=”_blank” position=”middle”]take me to clixsense >[/button-green] read our post on genuine online work which guides you about the technical process that helps you make money on the above 2 job sites apart from the post on textual description of these 2 jobs which will tell you all the basic entities that are required to earn money in a stable manner through these 2 jobs. the payment procedure related to these jobs is explained in our payment procedure page. lastly, reading their faq, tos & help sections will certainly help you as these are proper business websites & maintained regularly to have a win win situation always prevailing. category 2: the best list of jobs to earn money online 3. best online jobs ideas list you can definitely earn ₹ 1000 per day online if you follow the best list to earn online in india. it is a collection of the ideas out of which the below jobs have been created. hence we have placed this ultimate online jobs list in here. click on the below green button to go to this list. [button-green url=”http://www.emoneyjobs.com/visit/naukrilog-online-jobs/” target=”_blank” position=”middle”]take me to the best online jobs list[/button-green] category 3: jobs that need some more work to earn money online 4. start a website starting a website will assure you income if you are good enough to bring traffic on your website. the websites can be made for free as there are many hosts available which provide you web space for free on the internet but the only catch with this kind of hosting is that the quality is not up to the mark if you want to attain a level when you want a full time recurring income from your website & that is where you should take a look at our post on making money through a website. 5. uploading videos many people in past few years have made a fortune out of youtube partnership program who uploaded helpful or interesting videos on their youtube channel & got paid for the ads shown up on their videos. you can also do that by uploading videos on your channel which can be made for free. you can upload any kind of videos of your choice but really it is only an innovative idea that is required to upload videos which will be watched & shared by public. 6. affiliate marketing this is the ultimate earning mechanism where you can earn a handsome commission for promoting other person’s or company’s products online either through blogs or directly on social media using techniques that can be very supportive in the long time. on the whole it is the base of small online business ideas that run full time with heavy revenue generation. read more about it in our post on affiliate marketing in india. 7. google adsense google adsense is the best contextual ads network present on the internet & you just have to make a free blog on which google can show ads related to your content or people’s choices while surfing & google pays you when genuine clicks on those ads are made by people reading your posts on your blog. however this can be done with a free blog but to start the earning rapidly & effectively in a customized way as per your choice a paid website/blog is recommended to show up ads from google adsense. read more about it in our post about google adsense. 8. use your smartphone there are apps for android smartphones available for the users which help you make money on a serious note if you work on the opportunities that they provide. you have to take simple surveys, complete offers by signing up on other websites, play games, watch videos etc. consult our post on making money with android apps to know more about it. 9. provide training & consultancy this is another method to earn online. if you possess some good skills & love to teach then you can start a training or consultancy business online. you can provide training on english or any computer course, provide consultancy on vastu, any technical topic or if you are a doctor, you can provide consultancy for treatment e.t.c. there are number of things you can teach online. you can promote your business by creating a website or a facebook page or by placing ads in classified sites e.t.c. 10. online teaching jobs teaching can be done online. you can run your youtube channel of tutorials to make money from youtube & also you can teach students, other than that educators and teachers can help students with homework or offer on-demand teaching classes over the internet. apply to become an online tutor at sites like tutor.com, instaedu and tutorvista. if you want indian websites related to online teaching jobs then search for them on google & you would definitely find some websites which provide excellent teaching opportunities online. 11. online writing jobs apart from blogging for yourself you can even write articles for others who hire you & pay you for your written content. this online job is for those people who have interest in writing & want to be known through that as you also become popular when people read your content online. these jobs are becoming popular because each and every website on internet needs unique & regular content to get updated. you can get paid a very good amount per article depending on the content length & niche it has been written for. there are many websites where you can find online writing jobs and few of them are iwriter, freelancewriting etc. blogs like copyblogger provide good information & education to become a good writer if you are interested in writing on the internet. once you are good to write, you can join the above mentioned sites, get the writing jobs and start making money. 12. earn money with bitcoins bitcoins are a very new addition to the financial world but there are few opportunities which you can make use of if you do the work to gain bitcoins properly. read our post about earning money with bitcoins to get the concept of making money with bitcoins. 13. use traffic exchange websites traffic exchange websites are an innovative idea, if done in a proper manner & you can make use of these websites by getting traffic to your website/blog for the purpose of revenue generation through that traffic by either converting the traffic into customers or leads. we have written about making money with traffic exchange websites for you to understand it properly. 14. selling products online either you sell your own products or products of other people, the art of selling does persist & selling it online is a great job if you are ready to work wholeheartedly. we have compiled a post about selling online in india which you should take a look at if you are interested in this job. 15. online survey jobs online surveys can be a way to earn money online without investment. in this work, different companies ask for your opinion for their products or services, so that they can work on their assets & increase their sales or maintain production. you can signup with these companies, they will send you the surveys in your email or provide surveys directly to your account on their platform. you can complete them & get paid. the only catch in here is, there are only a few legitimate companies who provide surveys & you get paid from them regularly. if you search online, you will find many survey sites & most of them are not genuine. especially if the site that asks for a registration fee to provide you surveys is most probably not a legitimate site to work on. you can search for surveys providing sites on google & ask us to approve them to work on but one thing is for sure that if you do surveys provided through our told top 2 jobs sites in category 1 above, you would be definitely paid. click here to go to an established site that provides this kind of work. 16. micro job sites micro jobs can be less time taking tasks provided by some marketers or companies. there are some sites like microworkers which provide online micro jobs. you can earn anywhere between rs. 10 to rs. 100 for completing a task, which depends on task’s length. many tasks like sharing a web page, giving a review or rating for a product, writing an article of 500 words, surfing on a site, writing a testimonial e.t.c. can fall in this work category of micro jobs sites. if you work 2-3 hours daily on these sites then you can earn good enough income per month. our top 2 jobs in category 1 also provide micro jobs, but there is one catch with them that indians don’t get jobs available every time they login as the demand for other country people is higher than indians & if you have to earn a lot with micro jobs then you have to be regular with the work & achieve badges to get high paying tasks. 17. selling photographs online this is another work you can earn good income from. if you like to shoot good photos of nature, animals, real life incidents, places e.t.c. then you can sell your photos on number of photo selling websites like photobucket, shutterstock, istock etc. so next time, when shooting pics, try to catch good photographs and sell these photos on the above sites. you can also sell photographs that you have taken on web spaces like creative market, photodune, istockphoto or imgembed. these sites let you easily license photos you have uploaded on facebook, flickr or instagram for online use. category 4: jobs that you can try being online 18. freelancing jobs freelancing can be defined as providing services to your clients & make money with the valuable work you do. most of your clients are people who want your services temporarily. you can work with a win win situation & still make good money. truly, freelancing is one of the best online jobs to earn money. all you need in this business is some skills. it can be anything. if you know something most demanding, you will make more money. skills like writing, online promotion, web design, singing, creating videos, photography, image editing e.t.c can be used to provide valuable services termed as freelancing. many sites like fiverr, elance, upwork etc. can give you the best platform for freelancing. 19. virtual assistant jobs a virtual assistant is like a personal assistant who can earn money by working online for someone without being physically present. he can do variety of tasks like taking care of websites, counseling, writing & proofreading, publishing content, marketing, coding, website & app development, research e.t.c. there are dozens of companies like uassistme or 123employee where you can signup for virtual assistant work. you can also become a virtual office assistant and offer administrative or technical assistance to clients remotely from your home office. head over to elance, taskrabbit and odesk for finding work. 20. domain trading work domain trading is another high profit business you can do online. honestly, you need some investment for buying the domain. but this idea is highly useful & hence it is mentioned in here as after making money from our told jobs above you can definitely work with domain trading. you must be an expert or you should learn the art of domain trading before you start this business. you can buy domains from domain registrars like godaddy for less than $10 & sell in future to the needy person for hundreds of dollars. your skill here is to identify great domain names that are not booked yet & people or companies in future can try to buy that domain. when people or even big companies don’t find the domain of their choice, they contact the domain owner for the deal & it’s in your control to fix the price. you can also put your domains on auction by which people can buy directly at your desired price. 21. website flipping like domain trading, website flipping is also a hot business to earn money online. here you don’t deal with domains but websites. you have to create a website, work on it for 10-12 months or more so that you can start making money from that website. after earning for few months, you can put that site on auction on flippa & other platforms. you can easily get 15-20 times price of your monthly earning from that website. category 5: online work for techno savvy people 22. online coding jobs if you think that you really know how to code, you can then lookout for worthwhile software development projects at guru, elance or freelancer.com 23. online script writing jobs this is not about movie scripts but about java scripts or other computer friendly scripts. write scripts, browser extensions, plugins or mobile apps, e.t.c for ios and android and sell the source code of your software on codecanyon or binpress. this can pay you big time as it has been a revolutionary money making step in the modern world. this is one of the most recommended online jobs for software professionals 24. online designing jobs creative & graphics savvy professionals can search internet marketplaces like crowdspring, 99designs and designcrowd for projects involving logo design, web design and other marketing material related to designing. frankly, anyone who has spent some time on the internet & likes to design items through tools available on the computer should opt for this job. 25. online audio related jobs however this is not a very techno savvy related work but you need to know some technical aspects of recording hence it has been kept in this category. yes, if you think you have a good voice then sign-up as a voice over artist at voicebunny and voice123. record your own music with any good quality recording device and sell it on music stores like amazon mp3, itunes, pandora or spotify through distrokid, tunecore, loudr.fm and cdbaby. marketplaces like audiojungle, pond5 and bandcamp allow you to sell your audio files directly. 26. user testing jobs you can try to become a website tester at usertesting.com and get paid to review and test websites from the usability perspective & any of the other aspects of a website. these kinds of jobs are not known by many people around the country & hence you should make use of these for an income online. do you want to earn even more ? apart from the online earning ideas mentioned above find out more jobs providing sites which is basically a description of some of the sites mentioned above so that you can use them as per your interests & needs. also checkout our emoneyjobs blog for updated posts about making money online & developing an online home income which will be worthy & long lasting for your better future. one comment mihir yadav 22/01/2019 thanks a lot for the great list of online jobs. survey sites are best in my opinion as a beginner. you literally need no skill in doing surveys. in clixsense you can earn easy money from surveys. add a comment cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment:* name:* email address:* website: save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. adsearn rs.5000 dailyfree online surveysget paid for surveys © 2020 emoneyjobs. sitemap privacy policy disclaimer contact us