wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 27 best wordpress magazine themes of 2020 [free + paid] 27 best wordpress magazine themes of 2020 [free + paid] last updated on january 24th, 2020 by editorial staff 814 shares share tweet share pin are you looking for the best wordpress magazine themes for your website? content-rich websites need different layouts that can help them promote all new and important content at once. wordpress magazine themes are designed to do just that. in this article, we’ll share some of the best wordpress magazine themes that will help your content shine. getting started with a wordpress magazine website wordpress is the best website builder for building a magazine site. it currently powers over 34% of all websites on the internet. if you want to make a magazine website with wordpress, then the first thing you’ll need is a domain name and web hosting. magazine websites often have a lot of content including images and videos. this is why you need to choose a wordpress hosting company that offers you enough space to upload all your files while also handling your traffic efficiently. if you are just starting out, then we recommend bluehost. they are the most popular hosting company and an official wordpress.org recommended hosting provider. for complete step by step instructions, see our guide on how to start a wordpress blog. if you have high traffic, then we would recommend going with wp engine. it is a managed wordpress hosting service, which means they will handle everything for you. some of you may already have a wordpress site, and you may just want to switch to a magazine theme. it’s important that you understand what happens when you switch your wordpress theme and follow our checklist of things you must do before changing wordpress themes. with that said, let’s take a look at some of the best wordpress magazine themes that you can use on your site. 1. divi divi is a popular wordpress theme designed to create any website. it comes with a built-in page builder and dozens of ready-made layouts, including multiple templates for online magazines. it features custom design elements, color schemes, background options, and more. it also includes seo optimization to help rank your website in search engines. 2. astra astra is one of the best wordpress multi-purpose themes on the market. it comes with several ready-to-launch websites that you can install using their free astra starter sites plugin. it works great with any wordpress page builder plugin and comes with tons of flexible options. you can customize your theme using live customizer or by simply editing a page in default wordpress editor. 3. magazine pro magazine pro is a modern wordpress magazine theme by studiopress. built on top of the powerful genesis framework, it features customizable headers and comes ready for woocommerce. it also includes an easy to setup widgetized homepage, multiple page layouts, and live theme customizer. studiopress is now part of wp engine, the most popular managed wordpress hosting company. you can get this theme and all 35+ other studiopress themes when you sign up for wp engine hosting to build your website. bonus: wpbeginner users also get an additional 20% off. get started with wp engine today! 4. oceanwp oceanwp is a free wordpress multi-purpose theme. it ships with dozens of pre-built sites and a 1-click content importer to get started quickly. with ecommerce integration, it allows you to sell merchandise and make money online. the theme is translation ready and supports rtl languages out of the box. 5. ultra ultra is a stunning wordpress theme with a multi-purpose approach to easily make a magazine or news website. it offers fully customizable demo sites and a built-in page builder for customization. other notable features include premium addons, color schemes, layout options, parallax scrolling, and more. it has image filters to impress your users in the first look at your magazine website. 6. guten theme guten theme is a stylish wordpress magazine theme designed for the wordpress block editor. it comes with multiple built-in layouts for header, footer, and blog. it supports additional gutenberg blocks, which allow you to create impressive content layouts for your posts and pages easily. it has custom colors and font settings with flexible templates. 7. tribune tribune is a powerful wordpress news and magazine theme with an elegant layout featuring your most important content. it has a featured posts area at the top and a carousel slider at the bottom of the page. among other features, it offers a slider, a video widget, wordpress live customizer settings, tabbed widgets, infinite scroll, social media integration, and quick setup. 8. hestia pro hestia pro is an excellent wordpress multi-purpose theme for news and magazine websites. it comes with a fully customizable homepage with a featured content slider, a dynamic homepage builder, featured categories, and a 1-click demo content installer. it has multiple page templates, custom colors, fonts, logo, and background options. the theme also comes with several custom widgets and multiple widget-ready areas. 9. the wonderwall wonderwall is a beautifully designed wordpress magazine theme. it includes 9 pre-made homepage layouts that allow you to choose from a bevy of grids, featured posts, single lists, and more. inside, you’ll also find custom widgets for social media profiles, instagram, and content discovery features. it also offers dedicated positions to display banner ads across your website. 10. felt felt is an elegant wordpress magazine theme with a ton of awesome features. it is designed to beautifully display content in a magazine layout. it pays special attention to readability across devices and looks equally great on mobile and desktop. it has a fullscreen featured content slider to showcase your content categories beautifully. 11. hitmag hitmag is a free wordpress news and magazine theme. it comes with a featured content slider on top with a right sidebar and dual navigation menu. it has a featured categories section, an ad placement area, a trending widget, and more. the theme set up is quite easy with 1-click demo content importer, which you can then replace with your own content. 12. the essence the essence is an elegant wordpress magazine theme suitable for lifestyle, fashion, entertainment, and similar websites. it includes 4 different layout choices for your article pages, and a built-in social sharing feature with a floating sidebar to easily share articles from your website. inside you will also find custom widgets for instagram and social profiles. it comes with a pain-free setup process allowing you to easily get started using the live customizer. 13. news pro news pro is designed for wordpress news and magazine websites. created on top of genesis framework, news pro comes with a solid foundation to build content-rich websites. it comes with two sidebars, a footer widget area, a customizable header, simple navigation menus, and beautiful typography. 14. hueman hueman is a classic wordpress magazine theme designed to showcase your content with elegance. it comes with a featured content slider, dual navigation, left and right sidebars, a featured categories area, and multiple ad spaces. other notable features include a custom logo, social media icons, page layouts, and several widget-ready areas. you can use the wordpress live customizer to easily make changes on your website. 15. public opinion public opinion is a sleek and modern wordpress magazine theme. it comes in a light color scheme and a flexible homepage layout that you can easily customize using widgets. it has content sliders, featured categories, advertising space, multiple category layouts, and more. it is optimized for speed and performance and looks equally great on mobile devices. 16. newscard newscard is a stylish wordpress magazine theme suitable for technology, gaming, fashion, travel, health, and other niches. it comes with bold colors that make your content more readable. the theme has a top story ticker to showcase trending stories on the top. it also allows you to organize your content categorically and create a more engaging layout. 17. originmag originmag is a magazine wordpress theme with ecommerce support. it is fully compatible with woocommerce and perfect for news and magazine sites that sell merchandise. it takes a minimalist approach to design and focuses more on the content readability. the homepage is dynamically built with featured content, featured categories, and your latest articles. 18. metro magazine metro magazine is a free wordpress theme designed for online news and magazine websites. it has multiple color schemes, color labels for categories, custom widgets, social media integration, and multiple page template. the theme has two navigation menus, widget areas, ad placement, and live customizer support. it offers a very modern user interface with a focus on images and typography. 19. patch patch is a masonry-style wordpress blogging and magazine theme featuring a minimalist layout that makes your content pop out. it comes with multiple layout choices, including a grid layout for your homepage. it is easy to use and quick to set up, with lots of flexible options to customize every aspect of your website. 20. colormag colormag is a sophisticated wordpress magazine theme. it comes with a featured content slider, custom widgets, and a custom header support. with color choices and custom backgrounds, you can fully change the look and feel of your magazine website. it also supports woocommerce out of the box. related: bigcommerce vs woocommerce – which one is better? 21. domino magazine domino magazine is a highly customizable wordpress magazine theme. the homepage features multiple widgetized areas and a dynamic page builder. it comes with a built-in news ticker, weather widget, and a tabbed widget. the theme also allows you to easily add a custom background, headers, sliders, and your logo. 22. responz responz is a three-column news and magazine theme for wordpress. it features an elegant design with great typography and a fully responsive layout. it comes with multiple layout options like 2 sidebars, 1 sidebar, or full-width homepage. you can also choose from the list view or grid view post layouts. 23. metro pro metro pro is a powerful wordpress magazine theme built on top of the genesis framework. it features a custom background with large featured images. it comes with an easy-to-setup homepage with sections for your featured stories. it also includes built-in social media integration, custom menus, custom widgets, and a theme options panel. 24. mh magazine mh magazine is a modish wordpress theme built specifically for news, magazines, personal blogs, and editorial websites. it offers separate sections for trending topics and popular posts. among other features, it comes with eye-catching ad space and a custom post slider. it also features a fullscreen custom background image that you can replace to add your own image using wordpress customizer settings. 25. news portal news portal is a beautifully designed wordpress magazine and news theme. it comes with multiple color schemes and options to choose colors for your category pages. for easier customization, it includes dozens of theme options all accessible through live customizer. it is tested with all popular wordpress plugins and optimized for better speed, performance, and seo. 26. royal magazine royal magazine is a beautiful free wordpress magazine theme suitable for newspapers, magazines, and personal blogs. it comes with a magazine-style homepage layout, which is easy to set up using the live theme customizer. this responsive theme comes with multiple navigation menus, sidebars, color options, and page templates. it also works great with popular page builders and top wordpress plugins. 27. magazine magazine is a powerful wordpress theme with tons of amazing features. it comes with 42 layout choices, a layout builder, a featured content slider, sliding menus, a mega menu on top, social sharing, related posts, and many more features. it also features six color schemes, multiple sidebars, custom widgets, icon fonts, and tons of shortcodes. we hope this article helped you find the best wordpress magazine themes for your website. you may also want to see our guide on the best wordpress newspaper themes. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 814 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 4 commentsleave a reply bijay says: dec 7, 2017 at 3:30 am thank you for the wonderful theme suggestions! awesome article. reply ravi sharma says: jul 4, 2017 at 10:06 pm hello sir which theme you used in wpbeginner reply christina says: may 2, 2019 at 3:57 am it’s a custom build child theme which is made on top of the genesis framework. see the wpbeginner blueprint for more. christina reply worrick rupakheti says: mar 21, 2017 at 6:14 am really appreciate your hard work done for the creation of such a huge blog. it really inspired be for picking a theme and crafting my website. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) soliloquy coupon get 10% off soliloquy, the best responsive wordpress slider plugin available in the market. themeisle coupon get 10% off themeisle themes when you use this coupon. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.