home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance search emerging education technologies home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance home fln hub syndicated posts 27 meaningful (and fun) ways to use technology for teaching and learning 27 meaningful (and fun) ways to use technology for teaching and learning by kelly walsh - january 5, 2016 43 share facebook twitter a cavalcade of inspiring ideas for kicking up learning and enhancing engagement in your classroom! there are enough ideas, resources, and (mostly) free tools here to keep you exploring and learning all year long. have at it! 1. get your students creating there is just no limit to the way that students can use the endless free resources available on the web to create! you probably also have other creative applications on the computers or devices in your classroom, library, or computer lab. for lots of creative of ideas, check out this list of “60 things students can create to demonstrate what they know” from our friends at teachthought.com. 2. get real time feedback if there are devices at your student's disposal, using them to let students provide real time feedback has never been easier. in fact, your students don't even need devices (have you heard about plickers?)! check out these “top 5 student response systems that work on multiple platforms” to learn more about the excellent free tools that teachers are using every day to gather feedback or give brief quizzes, etc. if your students don't have devices at their disposal, check out how you can use free plickers instead! 3. collaborate collaboration is a vital 21st century skill, and collaborating via the web with your students can be free and easy! here's a nice set of tools and ideas for using them, to help get you started: “8 edtech hacks: a cheat sheet for interactive classroom collaboration”. 4. augment reality 2015 was an awesome year for augmented reality tools for the classroom. here are “9 amazing augmented reality apps for teaching and learning”. this article offers videos showing how some teachers and students are using these types of apps. then find even more ar apps for the classroom here! 5. gamify it we've all heard the buzz about “gamification”. how can you take advantage of this concept with your students? one fun way is to create a powerpoint jeopardy game relevant to the content you teach. here are some templates and ideas for using them. another popular game that is taking the classroom by storm is minecraft – they even have an education-dedicated site and resources over at minecraftedu.com. 6. meet your maker the maker movement and maker spaces got a lot of attention over the last year, and deservedly so … when students create, they learn! here's a fun way to give maker education a try in your classroom, from jackie gerstein. learn more in her article, “reflecting on the making process”. 7. make it … in 3d! if you have a 3d printer in your school, or maybe one in a nearby library, you can consider printing something in 3d – your students will probably be amazed (mine were)! what can you print that can help fit into what you are teaching? this list of 21 cool things teachers and students have built with 3d printers will probably give you some ideas. just keep in mind that if you are not already familiar with 3d printing, you're going to need some help from someone who is. 8. create collaboratively one of the funnest ways to use collaborative tools in the classroom is to create with them! google drive is a hugely popular free solution that allows you and your students to collaborate on the creation of documents, worksheets, presentations, and more. or try a collaborative interactive whiteboard like twiddla or one of the many other iwbs in this article (be sure to check the comments for lots of additional suggestions from readers). these are just a few of the possibilities for creative collaboration in the classroom! 9. let them choose giving students choices can be a significant motivator (check out larry ferlazzo's, “the power of choice”, to learn more about this vital aspect of student engagement). when you are selecting tools and ways to utilize them, but sure to offer choices. offer a selection of topics, approaches, apps, and techniques when creating assignments and projects, and students are sure to feel more involved and take more ownership of their learning. 10. enhance their writing skills the web is full of tools, resources, and ideas that can give your students opportunities to develop their writing skills. one of my favorite techniques is crystal kirch's wsq technique, which is a great way to help ensure that students engage with learning content, and it also gets them writing. here are some additional student writing tools, apps, and techniques for further exploration. 11. video it creating video can be so much fun for students, it incorporates an array of skills, and it has never been easier! i love the student showcase we do each fall at the teaching and learning with the ipad conference in raleigh, nc, where young students are always demonstrating the awesome movies they've made with imovie. i vividly recall the first time i saw some of these back in 2013, from fuquay varina elementary school school students. here is one of these movies, from students sekou, camren, and colin. i also watched professional quality newscasts, and short movies, created by franklin academy high school students. several of these well-spoken students demonstrated some of the equipment and tools that they used to create this content in this presentation. 12. go global we can now bring the world into our classroom with such ease! try a virtual field trip, like these from the nature conservatory, or explore the world with earthcam. bring remote guests into your classroom with skype, or participate in a google hangout with connected classrooms. the possibilities are limitless! 13. go mobile students can now learn via mobile devices in ways never before possible. they can also use those mobile devices to do so many fun educational things in and out of the classroom! consider trying a geocaching assignment, for example. the article, “r u engaging your students? strategies and tools for the texting generation”, offers a broad set of additional ideas for putting those mobile devices to use. 14. animate it applications like goanimate, voki, and tellagami can be used by teachers and by students to create fun animated presentations. students can have a blast using tools like these for assignments and projects without even realizing that they are developing writing skills and digital literacy. these platforms can also enable students to “present” without having to stand up on in front of a group, which can help younger students in particular gain skills and confidence without being overwhelmed by public speaking. 15. get your groups on group activities help to build the vital 21st century collaboration, communication, and teamwork skills increasingly sought in today's schools and work places. create group projects that let students use different talents and assume different rules. split up responsibility for researching, designing, creating, documenting, and presenting. partner students to create and critique each others' work. try some of these “7 tools students can use to manage group projects” to teach students how to coordinate group efforts. group work can take many forms, and tech tools can play a role in many of those activities. 16. flip it the flipped classroom is a powerful teaching and learning construct that has been made possible largely by digital technologies. create a digital lesson, or use some of the amazing content that is already available online, and give the flip a try (just be sure to plan for how you will use the class time that you free up, which is what it is ultimately all about)! check out this three part series of articles to get a good overview of the flipped classroom from published experts. 17. improve student reading comprehension tools like newsela are brilliant examples of the powerful role education technology can play in facilitating reading comprehension (which is more of a challenge than ever, given today's students' love for video). check out this article, “literacy in the digital age: five sites with high-quality informational text”, to learn about a handful of tools similar to newsela. 18. make it a project project based learning does not have to incorporate technology, but tech can readily play a role in pbl. of course, it is also important to understand the difference between projects, per se, and true pbl. this quote from the teachthought article, “the difference between projects and project-based learning”, says it well: “while project-based learning (pbl) also features projects, in pbl the focus is more on the process of learning and learner-peer-content interaction that the end-product itself.” 19. present it developing and delivering presentations is a common element in many of today's higher education classrooms, and they are finding their way into high schools and even lower grades, as k-12 schools further embrace 21st century skills. while powerpoint remains widely popular, there are a growing number of alternative tools finding a place in both academia and the business world. one of those is powtoon (i'm a fan!), and they have shared 9 other alternatives in their article, “10 best powerpoint alternatives” (if you get a pop up encouraging you to try a free account, just look for the “x” to click on to return to the article). 20. try a webquest! have you tried a webquest yet? webquest.org explains, “a webquest is an inquiry-oriented lesson format in which most or all the information that learners work with comes from the web.” zunal.com is a site that has a bunch of webquests, perfect for exploring and learning more! i have to admit, this is pretty new to me. when i write an article like this, i am always looking to learn new things too, and while most of these ideas are off the top of my head based on things i am already aware of, this was a new one! can't wait to give it a shot. 21. comics and cartooning i came away from the 2014 teaching and learning with the ipad conference with two huge takeways … the power of digital storytelling (thank you kathy schrock … more on this below), and an appreciation and awareness of the existence of good free comics and cartoon apps (thank you emily wierszewski!). check out “dozens of ways to use comics and cartoons in the classroom” and “20 free tools for making comics and cartoons for teaching and learning” for everything you ever needed to know about the topic but were afraid to ask! (after you look those over, check out the video for my original song, lotto dust, to see how i had a blast creating a video using pixton and some other tools!). 22. code it yes, we're fans of coding as a learning tool. unfortunately, many teachers may be functioning under a few misconceptions about what coding entails. the fact is, coding constructs can be fun and probably a lot simpler than you might have imagined. one of the most popular uses of coding in the classroom these days is coding small robotic devices, and it is very popular in young grades because it is not very hard and it's fun! this article from vicki davis's cool cat teacher site, “top tips for teaching with robots (using spero)”, provides a good introduction to using one of these products in the classroom. 23. set up a ‘back channel' ever had a student who was totally reluctant to participate in classroom conversations? of course you have (you've probably had dozens or even hundreds of them). one fun way to leverage tech in the classroom is to create a “back channel” where all of your students, even those reluctant to speak up in class, can participate in the dialogue around a subject. twitter is a very popular tool for doing this. “maggiev” explains how in this post on her “school 2.0 in south africa” blog. 24. tell a story kathy schrock is an original. she was one of the first edtech bloggers to rise to popularity, and it's no surprise since she really knows her stuff! i thoroughly enjoyed her keynote presentation at tlipad 2014, and wrote this article about it: “the power of digital storytelling, with kathy schrock (plus a zillion resources!)”. i often reach back to these resources for inspiration for lesson content, and as a reference when i am writing articles for the site here. there are a wealth of insights in that article, and kathy's digital storytelling web page provides many tools and resources that both students and teachers can use to incorporate digital story telling into classroom work. 25. reinforce it with an exit ticket activity the “exit ticket” is a great opportunity to help students begin to reinforce learning. there are many tech tools that are great for creating exit ticket activities. teachthought offers these “10 smart tools for digital exit slips”. 26. sharing is caring as long as you have their permission, sharing student work can be very exciting for students, parents, and teachers! just think of the artwork hanging in the halls of k-12 schools all over the world. the digital equivalent of this can be accomplished through school web sites, teacher web pages, and other online means. one related tool that is gaining increased exposure in both k-12 and higher ed is the digital portfolio. in 2015, k-12 eportofilio app seesaw earned a lot of notice. to my way of thinking, in higher education it should be a requirement for students to share their best work and use it to bolster their employment opportunities. 27. app smash it! have you app smashed yet? you probably have and may not even have realized it! for example, if you create content in one app and then modify or distribute it in another, this is a form of app smashing. and you know it sounds like fun – you can just envision student's eyes lighting up when you say the phrase right?! “app smashing!”. here are “6 amazing apps smash examples to inspire creativity”, from thinglink. well, there you have it – 27 powerful ideas for integrating technology into lessons, assignments, projects, etc., in fun, meaningful ways. and if these tools and ideas aren't enough to keep you busy exploring and having fun with your students throughout the year, be sure to stop back regularly for more great ideas, tools, and resources! related posts 12 emerging educational uses of technology that are the most exciting right now the rise of the ‘youtuber' and why teachers should take notice 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring newsela – daily news articles customized at 5 different reading levels tags best ideas for technology integration best practices for technology integration best ways to use instructional technology meaningful ways to integrate technology in classroom share facebook twitter tweet previous articlethe most popular education & technology content of 2015 (thanks buzzsumo!) next articleapp ed review january round up – vocabulary apps! kelly walsh https://www.emergingedtech.com kelly walsh is chief information officer and ciso at the college of westchester, in white plains, ny, where he also teaches. in 2009, walsh founded emergingedtech.com. he frequently delivers presentations and training on a variety of education and technology topics at schools and conferences across the u.s. walsh is a flipped learning network board member. he also writes regularly for university business magazine. in his "spare time" he writes, records, and performs original music ... stop by kwalshmusic.com and have a listen! [disclaimer: the opinions expressed here are my own, or those of other writers, and not those of my employer. - k. walsh] 43 comments best discord bots march 7, 2020 at 5:21 am amazing collection of information. thanks for sharing it. error code 0xc0000225 february 28, 2020 at 1:30 am your blog on smart classroom idea has given me some awesome ideas. i would like to read more from your website. thanks. rahil january 27, 2020 at 2:25 pm hi kelly i really appreciate what you have wrote in this whole article but my favorite is 1. get your students creating. thanks for it connie october 14, 2019 at 7:38 pm i really liked how you use different ways you can use technology for teaching and learning. i liked gamify it and, and how you can use powerpoint to make a jeopardy game. pinki september 11, 2019 at 3:19 am i really appreciate the work you have done, you explained everything in such an amazing and simple way. toshiba error code 0xc0000225 in windows 10 july 17, 2019 at 2:38 am thank you for this blog. lisa may 17, 2019 at 12:47 pm online learning opportunities and the use of open educational resources and other technologies can increase educational productivity by accelerating the rate of learning; reducing costs associated with instructional materials or program delivery; and better utilizing teacher time. sara may 17, 2019 at 12:45 pm technology also has the power to transform teaching by ushering in a new model of connected teaching. this model links teachers to their students and to professional content, resources, and systems to help them improve their own instruction and personalize learning. mental health and teachers: why more needs to be done | emerging education technologies april 30, 2019 at 7:18 am […] 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! […] project help united kingdom december 21, 2018 at 2:01 am this site and the resources you provide is really nice keep it up. restart the passion for learning before college - mojitos and munchkins | a mom blog november 1, 2018 at 11:26 pm […] at home and learning about its development first-hand). additionally, don’t be afraid to let them use technology in the process, just remember to limit its use strictly for learning during study sessions. there […] the role of av in the greater context of education – danieldion1 october 14, 2018 at 12:31 pm […] on the front of content delivery, this is where teachers have the ability to make a difference in children’s lives. this is where the flexibility of a teachers shines, there are very little restrictions on how content can be delivered. a variety of frameworks can be used to involve students in their education. here are a few suggested in a blog post by kelly walsh […] lexmark printer support september 7, 2018 at 6:00 am the maker movement and maker spaces got a lot of attention over the last year, and deservedly so when students create, they learn! here\’s a fun way to give maker education a try in your classroom myhomeworkhelp august 27, 2018 at 1:07 am technology ushers in fundamental structural changes that can be integral to achieving significant improvements in productivity. used to support both teaching and learning, technology infuses classrooms with digital learning tools, such as computers and hand held devices; expands course offerings, experiences, and learning materials; supports learning 24 hours a day, 7 days a week; builds 21st century skills; increases student engagement and motivation; and accelerates learning. technology also has the power to transform teaching by ushering in a new model of connected teaching. this model links teachers to their students and to professional content, resources, and systems to help them improve their own instruction and personalize learning. online learning opportunities and the use of open educational resources and other technologies can increase educational productivity by accelerating the rate of learning; reducing costs associated with instructional materials or program delivery; and better utilizing teacher time. calfre2020 august 2, 2018 at 5:25 am this post is really nice and informative. the explanation given is really comprehensive and informative.. raghav sharma july 27, 2018 at 12:46 am amazing article, in today’s fast-changing world, educational institutes need to integrate technology in education to make students future ready. great work!!! traci talley june 12, 2018 at 3:07 pm i found these tips very informative. i want to try and find more ways to use technology in my classroom. i teach life skills to middle schoolers, i have tried “making it a project”. i think i will try a few of the other points this next school year. shoaib ibn abdullah june 12, 2018 at 5:36 am hi kelly, nice collection and very informative. i like the augmented reality idea. i believe it will help many students in the field of science like physics, chemistry and biology. pedagogy – eal/d learning in australian schools may 6, 2018 at 8:52 pm […] which can be tailored to suit eal/d students at different levels of learning in the classroom. emergingedtech provides a number of different in-class activities that utilise technology as a way to provide […] differentiated activities – eal/d in the classroom april 16, 2018 at 12:32 am […] at different levels of learning in the classroom. a blog by ‘emergingedtech’ can be seen here and provides a number of different in-class activities that utilise technology as a way to provide […] kishan march 25, 2018 at 9:47 pm really great collection of information. really loved it. 7 edtechs to try in 2018 – global learn day march 7, 2018 at 12:08 pm […] your goals for 2018, add these 7 edtechs to the list. learn something new this […] 7 tips on how to make lessons more engaging and fun | emerging education technologies january 16, 2018 at 8:23 am […] 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! […] penmypaper november 20, 2017 at 1:25 am technology has been a pioneer of innovative inventions in every field. more so in the last decade than earlier, technology has seeped in every aspect of human life and made its presence known. especially in the field of education, technology has had the most lasting and positive impact. this post gives a very good description of ways in which education is benefited by technology. the evolution of ebooks, classroom projectors, digital memory, presentations, video learning, podcasts etc. have helped the students learn difficult concepts in a much easier way. ideas for integrating technology scientific discipline into the classroom - techomelto november 19, 2017 at 9:43 pm […] source: https://www.emergingedtech.com/2016/01/27-meaningful-ways-use-edtech-make-classroom-more-awesome/ […] best of writers august 31, 2017 at 3:24 pm i think these are the most entertaining and effective use of online technologies for studies i have ever seen. i hope that i can use all of the tips and methods in my future lesson plans. the part i liked best was going global. it is important to have some kind of educational background to any student. this is the time when this technique will come in handy. the power of choice if proved to be beneficial for my own students. they tend to even choose harder tasks if they have the options. what i am passionate about as we head into 2017 (how about you)? — emerging education technologies january 3, 2017 at 8:38 am […] uses of edtech: i started 2016 with this theme, and want to keep returning to it. it is too easy to simply grasp at various tools and techniques […] educational technology | pearltrees november 12, 2016 at 9:28 am […] 27 meaningful (and fun) ways to use technology for teaching and learning. a cavalcade of inspiring ideas for kicking up learning and enhancing engagement in your classroom! there are enough ideas, resources, and (mostly) free tools here to keep you exploring and learning all year long. have at it! 1. get your students creating there is just no limit to the way that students can use the endless free resources available on the web to create! […] rajesh october 6, 2016 at 11:05 am amazing collection of information. thanks for sharing. wan zuhainis august 25, 2016 at 4:31 pm this is really awesome. thank you for sharing. 27 meaningful (and fun) ways to use technology ... august 13, 2016 at 7:08 am […] a cavalcade of inspiring ideas for kicking up learning and enhancing engagement in your classroom! there are enough ideas, resources, and (mostly) free tools here to keep you exploring and learning all year long. have at it! 1. get your […] 27 tips for meaningful technology integration - online education blog of touro college july 22, 2016 at 10:03 am […] walsh’s 27 meaningful (and fun) ways to use technology for teaching and learning discusses the best methods for breaking free of the traditional teaching method. she explains that […] deepes april 15, 2016 at 3:25 am wonderful collection of ideas 5 steps to get started with google cardboard vr viewer in your classroom — emerging education technologies march 8, 2016 at 8:06 am […] there are more exciting education-oriented augmented reality apps available for free on your smartphones and tablets every day (here’s a few to check out). […] 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! | instructional know-how february 3, 2016 at 9:15 am […] sourced through scoop.it from: https://www.emergingedtech.com […] 27 meaningful ways to use edtech … thinglink style! — emerging education technologies february 2, 2016 at 7:52 am […] decided to use the image i created for this recent article, 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year, as my test case, converting the graphic into an interactive learning resource for teachers to […] lori january 25, 2016 at 10:12 pm what a wonderful collection of ideas that will give our students choices in how to demonstrate their learning that fosters imagination and creativity. students will be excited to demostrate their learning! awesome! 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make you... january 8, 2016 at 4:38 pm […] “well, there you have it – 27 powerful ideas for integrating technology into lessons, assignments, projects, etc., in fun, meaningful ways. and if these tools and ideas aren’t enough to keep you busy exploring and having fun with your students throughout the year, be sure to stop back regularly for more great ideas, tools, and resources!” […] innovation2 | pearltrees january 8, 2016 at 2:55 pm […] predictions for k-12 education in 2015. the end of sitting – projects – raaaf. 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! […] 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make you... january 6, 2016 at 4:05 pm […] a cavalcade of inspiring ideas for kicking up learning and enhancing engagement in your classroom! there are enough ideas, resources, and mostly free tools here to keep you exploring and learning all year long. […] 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! — emerging education technologies | teaching knowledge and creativity january 6, 2016 at 12:28 pm […] sourced through scoop.it from: https://www.emergingedtech.com […] 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make you... january 6, 2016 at 9:13 am […] a cavalcade of inspiring ideas for kicking up learning and enhancing engagement in your classroom! there are enough ideas, resources, and mostly free tools here to keep you exploring and learning all year long. have at it! […] 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make you... january 5, 2016 at 11:47 am […] a cavalcade of inspiring ideas for kicking up learning and enhancing engagement in your classroom! there are enough ideas, resources, and mostly free tools here to keep you exploring and learning all year long. have at it! 1. get your […] leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here * search the site! * get a copy of the free education technology resources ebook as our thank you for subscribing to our blog posts! subscribe name: email: we respect your email privacy categories categories select category 3 minute teaching with tech tip (video tutorials) 3d printing in education adaptive learning administrative solutions artificial intelligence assessment augmented reality, virtual reality best education and technology videos blogs & blogging book reviews collaboration & brainstorming comics and cartooning competency based education cyber safety awareness and prevention digital badges digital literacy education technology success stories educational games & gamification electronic portfolios facebook (classroom and instructional uses) financial literacy awareness flipping the classroom (reverse instruction) fln hub syndicated posts free tools & resources future of education technology interactive white boards interviews – education technology thought leaders ipads and other tablet devices iphones and smartphones learning analytics learning management & course management systems lecture capture making the case for education technologies mobile learning resources moocs (massive open online courses) morning motivation open educational resources oer picture and image editing podcasting, vodcasting, & video hosting polls, surveys portals powerpoint presentation tools professional development project based learning screencasting social media & social learning special needs students story telling & timelines student centered learning student response systems teaching coding twitter uncategorized workshops & conferences _ miscellaneous tools and topics emergingedtech on social media 9,687fanslike 320followersfollow 9,733followersfollow 2,290subscriberssubscribe popular posts 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle the multiple uses of augmented reality in education 20 fun free tools for interactive classroom collaboration mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring come explore the flipped learning network! recognition for emergingedtech! even more news how to get your students to perform better – the scientific... march 27, 2020 5 things schools should do to help ensure student data privacy march 24, 2020 the bright side of remote teaching and administration – when preparation... march 20, 2020 popular category _ miscellaneous tools and topics502 free tools & resources502 future of education technology315 making the case for education technologies283 ipads and other tablet devices259 professional development239 iphones and smartphones200 ©