skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 28 professional wordpress multi-purpose themes for corporate websites 2020 28 professional wordpress multi-purpose themes for corporate websites 2020 january 16, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 1 comment if you are looking to build a modern corporate website you might want to have a look at these professional wordpress themes. in our modern economy, marketing is the engine of capitalism. it revolves around a simple idea: how well can you advertise, distribute, and present your product or service. in this modern age of the internet, all primary advertising platforms changed. gone are the days of insular communities, each having its own unique isolated market. our society has gone global, resulting in a massive, fused global economy that continuously generates innovation and progress. however, a global online economy implies an overwhelming amount of competition. the landscape has irrevocably changed, and only the creative business can survive. your voice is in danger of getting lost in the crowd, just one business among many. to prevent this from happening, you must express your views and aspirations clearly to maximize your chances. for many companies, wordpress is the ideal platform from which you can achieve this goal. it’s a free, egalitarian site that hosts a plethora of business pages and blogs. here, your background does not matter, just your ingenuity. it’s where startups come to flourish, and where bigger establishment expands into the wild west of the internet. the online medium is without a doubt, the biggest thing to happen since the invention of currency. a wordpress theme is basically your way of organizing your web page. it includes practical additions such as video players or plugins, and aesthetic elements such as layouts and appearance editing tools. it allows you to tailor your page, constantly tweaking it until it reflects your professionalism and dedication towards your craft. you only have a few moments to peak their interest until they decide to move on. on the internet first impressions matter, don’t make the mistake of underselling yourself. let’s take a look at some of the most successful and prolific wordpress professional themes: jevelin jevelin is a mobile-friendly and professional wordpress theme for any creative and professional website. it comes with multiple demos of one-click install. it is adaptable to all screens and browsers with a malleable design and layout. jevelin has a creative and light concept with tons if customizations to be made. it features over 100 portfolio layouts and 6 blog layouts to mix and get inspired. you will find an amazing library of designs to import right away. jevelin is a tool that offers flexibility and attractive. jevelin has spaces for logos, different headers and footers aside from cool custom widgets. it features slider revolution to set amazing slides. it also has parallax effect for awesome video and backgrounds display. get it with 4 post columns and 6 types of files to upload. jevelin is ready to make business if that’s what you are up to! you count with the well-known woocommerce plugin. this theme is made to fit any scenario with a fast response and loading. it has been improved with seo too. with all these features, you will feel that you are building your own personal canvas! try it right now and get it with user support and constant free updates! make your projects come alive like magic with jevelin! more info / download demo divi elegant and proud of it, this theme is at the pinnacle of professionalism. divi should not be viewed as a theme, but as a versatile tool that allows you to build professional websites with ease. many people are intimidated by the notion of coding, and the painstaking algorithms that it implies. with the divi builder, you are able to make and edit your own aesthetic layout, without having to learn a single line of computer code. it also offers you the freedom to change your mind, and tweak each detail until you think that it is perfect. if your time is limited, the package also includes some interesting default designs. with over 18 completed layouts, you can simply apply one of these excellent starters. as time passes, you will have the option to modify the pre-made layout, and make it yours. what the web designer sees, and what the customer sees, are often different things. some pages have trouble adapting to the large variety of devices. divi has an extremely responsive design that never fails to reach your clients, regardless of their computer or phone. for more information about divi theme and its outstanding functionality, you can read this detailed review. more info / download demo webify in short, webify is a professional wordpress theme for all sorts of business ventures you are planning to dive in. as far as crafting a sophisticated website goes, webify has you covered with all and everything. from home and internal pages to all sorts of other features and functions. with webify, you can build pages for restaurants, agencies, software, law firm, architecture studios, bloggers and online store owners. introduce your creativity, and you unlock yourself even more options. webify is very beginner-friendly, thanks to the codeless process it offers via the drag and drop page builder. the layout of webify is fluid, instantly reshaping to smartphones, tablets and desktop computers. it is also compatible with retina screens and browsers, optimized for seo and entirely customizable. you can mix and match the ready-made stuff and have a page live in a snap of a finger. more info / download demo studio 9 studio 9 is a high quality multipurpose wordpress theme. it has 3 versions for different kinds of users on different prices. these are the standard, developer and club member versions. it has basic set ups for professional uses, like to show portfolios and projects but also blogs. studio 9 is very friendly for users to set up and for site viewers. it has a responsive layout with a panel optimized for speed and more. it also features tons of shortcodes to make actions faster. studio 9 is modern, flexible and fun to play with. it uses 3 columns to arrange as you see fit and stand out the most important aspects of your posts. you will get widget-ready areas and lots of psd files. studio 9 has customizable backgrounds aid with html5 and css3, as well as galleries. it handles a wordpress api and it is installed in one-click. you will find lots of tools to get adapted to multisite installation and hosting. studio 9 is translation ready and speed optimized too. you will find woocommerce compatibility for shops and great support. play with its unlimited scheme colors and find your own concept! come here and get this wonderful instrument! come get studio 9! more info / download demo bridge bridge is a professional wordpress theme for forging enticing business pages that will drive your company to new heights. it is a multi-functional website canvas that you can use for any business you run. or even if you are just starting out, bridge is one of the best ways to get things moving in the right direction. first and foremost, bridge is one of those themes that does not require any background in coding or design. you can be a complete beginner but still have the opportunity to appear on the web like a professional. included with the theme also comes quick and reliable support that will help you on your journey to a successful website launch. indeed, bridge is also packed with all the modern features, practicing all the latest web trends. kicks things off by selecting one from close to four hundred demos (yes, 400!) and see the difference. more info / download demo doyle doyle is an amazing wordpress theme built for the lazy and the busy! it comes with 10 gorgeous demos with their own homepages. start with an easy one-click set up and began to explore. you will doyle is packed up with layout customizations and great typography. it includes 800 google fonts and font awesome icons too. doyle is a new easy path to build a high-quality site within minutes. just look at its amazing plugin compatibilities to personalize according to your needs. you get gravity forms, bbpress, and buddy press among others. there is no doubt that you will make clients happy with support services and contact! doyle is a theme that offers a fast simple design for all professional purposes to be achieved. it has speed loading optimization that makes it fast and a responsive layout. this makes it compatible to devices and browsers. but, it also makes it easy for you to reach potential interests/clients. doyle is made to be user-friendly and intuitive to catch on its customizations options. it features a drag & drop page builder visual composer and features bootstrap framework. regular updates and 24/7 customer support is also available! give it a try right now! try doyle! more info / download demo uplift uplift is a mobile-friendly and professional wordpress business and corporate theme. it’s a truly malleable jack-of-all-trades of a wordpress theme, deftly handling the most diverse website contents, tones and fields of interest with seamless grace and profound, native aptitude. that is because uplift has been designed with flexibility at its core. the naturally nimble swift page builder makes short work of most layout design and construction tasks, quickly laying out your modules and elements in a rapid, drag and drop fashion that is immensely intuitive. this allows you to modify and alter the predesigned layouts or even the full demo websites included. totaling in at 6, each demo website is a completely unique interpretation of uplift’s capabilities and repertoire, and each is equally primed for your handcrafting. uplift is completely retina-ready out of the box, as well as natively responsive and cross-compatible with desktop and mobile devices, all platforms, browsers, and screens sizes or orientations. effortlessly reaching across all boards, uplift packs the powerful woocommerce plugin suite, making it an effective online store when need be, while simultaneously supporting features like the buddypress and bbpress social forums plugins. uplift is whatever you want it to be! more info / download demo x theme when creating your personal website, you can get away with many mistakes. however, your professional page is another story entirely. a businessperson’s site is his/her calling card, and it will ultimately reflect the quality of the business itself. x is a wordpress theme that can facilitate the creation of amazing professional sites, and it does not require any specialized web development knowledge. the difficulty barrier has been completely shattered, and even a child can successfully craft a gorgeous page. after purchasing x, users will receive a large roster of premium features, which were added free of charge. in total, this theme has more than $1000 of value, for the modest $64 price tag. the theme is a blank canvas, a lump of clay that is ready to be shaped by its user. the wordpress live customizer tool was added, and it can showcase changes before they are applied. this function makes it easier for site owners to experiment with different settings for their colors, layouts, posts and pictures. in addition, x is fully responsive, and it has more than 600 google fonts. you can even design your own online store, thanks to the popular woocommerce plugin. more info / download demo fatmoon fatmoon is a beautiful and sleek wordpress creative photography theme. this theme has been developed as a sophisticated platform with all the tools, plugins page templates and demo websites you’ll need to craft the most stunning websites out there in the market today, in a matter of minutes. fatmoon takes care of all the tedious backbone underpinning, executed in flawless html5 and animated through dynamic css3 code while also featuring gorgeous parallax and html5 video backgrounds, potent ajax powered capabilities and much more. all this versatility is readily available through the incredibly easy to use visual composer drag and drop page builder, the slider revolution premium plugin and fatmoon’s impressive 41 conceptually unique demo websites that are ready to tackle the most diverse sets of needs. fatmoon’s amazing landing page templates are the talk of the town among webmasters, with seamless one page implementations and masterfully designed page layouts complementing an extremely attractive visual flow and a stupendously hierarchized organization will keep your visitors informed, entertained and paying attention. with fatmoon, there’s simply no way to miss! try it today! more info / download demo ekko with a professional wordpress theme like ekko, you can go after creating all types of business websites. from corporate and finance to consulting and agency, it is all possible with ekko. the site skin comes with an enormous collection of demos which you can use as full-blown websites. just perform a few additional tweaks and you are ready to rock and roll. with something as powerful and practical as ekko, you know beforehand that establishing a sophisticated page will be child’s play. to continue the hype, ekko ensures your page will sport all the latest web development trends. meaning, it will be flexible, mobile-ready, retina-friendly and both speed and seo friendly. it is no secret why ekko is becoming one of the most popular tools currently available on the market. take it to your full advantage and unleash your creative animal for a website that will boost your business through the roof. more info / download demo dynamix dynamix is a professional wordpress theme that quickly adapts to all your business and project requirements. upon unboxing the dynamix kit, you get access to nine stunning and versatile demos. you can use the one you fancy most as is or you can quickly make it your own. after all, dynamix is super simple to use, edit and maintain without the need of having any programming skills. you can customize just about everything when it comes to dynamix. that said, make sure you use the superb theme to its full potential and craft the exact website that you always wanted to own. responsive and retina-ready, optimized for top-notch performance, visual page builder and an array of other fabulous characteristics is what dynamix treats you to. once you see its live preview, you know how far you can get with it. construct the page today and start attracting new visitors that will help you grow your project to the next level. more info / download demo crane crane is an innovative and professional multipurpose wordpress theme designed to fulfill the requirements of all types of users. its installation is a one-click step, and it is friendly for beginners or those who are not fans of programming. in fact, no coding experience is necessary at all. thanks to visual composer, you get the best drag-and-drop functions. as a wp theme, it is visually appealing, but with a sober and professional concept. crane is also flexible because of its incredible formatting options. customizations make it versatile and without limitations of use. its responsive design allows you to put together stores, galleries, and blogs. you can even build portfolios and cvs. with a regular license, crane offers 150+ preconfigured layouts, 25 professional adjustable clipart images, and 2000+ completely amazing icons. did you really think that was all? well, no. the theme’s third-party plugins include seven of the top premium options available out there. try the groovy menu and slider revolution to start. the business model is another option through the woocommerce plugin. for multilingual purposes, wpml compatibility is likewise included. get crane, and become an expert with the help of its customer support team! more info / download demo pixi getting pixi as your theme is basically the right thing to do. you can use this professional wordpress theme as a marketing page to present your brand, your products, your services or your portfolio. it has a user-friendly and modern design with full documentation included. pixi is 100% responsive and compatible with all modern browsers. there are also multiple sample layouts included, all of which are easily customizable. with the wpbakery integration, anyone can bring into being the exact website they want. pixi contains a fantastic collection of sixteen home demos which you can use however you see them fit your business or project best. you can also add your own online store to sell creations, merch, furniture and so forth. it also comes with contact form 7, mailchimp, registration forms, blog section and other convenient features that will do you well. more info / download demo anomica anomica is a professional wordpress theme for it solutions, services and other tech-related projects. with the available three homes and an ecommerce addition, you can now start online in little to no time. one thing is for sure; you do not need to be a programmer; neither do you need to hire a professional that will help you sort out a first-class online presence. with the use of anomica, anyone can get creative and end up with a striking and impactful website for boosting their business’ potential to the next level. anomica comes with wpbakery, slider revolution, contact form 7, mailchimp, blog layouts, preset headers, one click import and mega menu. the theme is also optimized for speed and seo, as well as compatible with all popular devices, browsers and plugins. you do not need to invest a ton of time to see exceptional results with anomica. more info / download demo exponent with the multi-purpose approach, exponent is a professional wordpress theme that works with all sorts of niches and industries. with the 26 demos alone, you can build, well, 26 different websites. corporate, mobile app, finance, law, construction, medical, education and hosting websites, to name a few, exponent gets the ball rolling without a hassle. and if you would like to expand its potential even further, the drag and drop builder allows you to get as creative as you want. exponent promises outstanding loading speed, search engine optimization, killer support and just the best overall performance. online store, blog and portfolio pages are also included in the kit for you to benefit from. instead of doing the hard work from scratch, take a smart shortcut and utilize the influential exponent. you are just short moments away from starting attracting new potential prospects and growing your business to new heights. more info / download demo stockie when building an ecommerce website, stockie is the professional wordpress theme that will do the trick. it is very creative and modern, as well as clean and minimal, ensuring a pleasant shopping experience. due to its fluid layout, stockie works on all devices without a hitch. due to the several predefined samples, you have more than enough options to create the exact look for your online store that you fancy. for any additional customization, use the wpbakery page builder and make stockie practice your branding directions to a t. flexible menus, full typography control, fast loading speed, blog section, lookbook and tons of other internal pages and ui elements, stockie gets you rolling with confidence and tons of content. search engine optimization, responsive layout, figma source files and custom shortcodes are just a few of the extra treats of stockie. more info / download demo brando brando is a high quality multipurpose wordpress theme. it comes with a one page design that allows boxed and wide layouts. it is responsive and easy to set up with numerous panel options. brando suits perfectly professional purposed sites in need of versatility and presence. it has lots of documentation, and useful videos to explain their demos. you’ll get custom widgets and extensive social media exposure options. brando has layout options for portfolios and blogs and can customize almost anything. it can post in 6 different formats and modify backgrounds too. you will get many options to display personal skills and present online resume. brando uses wpml for translations and visual composer as page builder. it is seo-friendly and loading speed optimized for great user experience. the design is creative and vast. you get to customize with unlimited colors and tons of fonts and icons. brando is an award-winning theme with great reviews. it gets constant updated adding features and layouts. it is also retina ready and adaptable to all browsers. brando can add pricing tables, event organizers and introduce css3 animations. it uses awesome lightbox plug-in to present the best galleries. give a shot to start your professional path with brando. more info / download demo h-code h-code is a multipurpose wordpress theme. it comes with over 50 homepages and demos specialized in multiple or one page designs. it is a theme suited for practical purposes and great in the professional area. h-code has been well-reviewed, and it gives you a premium support team. it offers many sets of fonts, icons, and amazing galleries. it uses megamenu to arrange all posts and handles woocommerce integration for businesses. h-code is versatile but clean and sober and thus great for working environments. with its 3 amazing sliders, it has an appealing touch that go great on creative agencies. (you will see revoultion slider, owl slider and bootstrap slider). it even includes certification of web page tests for speed and responsive performance. h-code is mobile friendly, adaptable to all screens and devices. admin panel is powerful and has great improvements thanks to prebuilt shortcodes. you can use 6 introduction demos and you can quickly install it in a single click. h-code provides an under construction countdown to prepare people. backgrounds can be set exceptionally with css3 animations, videos and parallax effect. add special uses to portfolios and blogs pages or try its child theme. get started with this themezaa creation and elite author product. go with h-code! more info / download demo pixzlo designing a website is an art and a science, so you need a theme that takes things seriously. you can do this with pixzlo. this professional wordpress theme is the newest trendy portfolio concept for creative startups, freelancers, graphic designers, digital marketing companies and it businesses to name a few. you are now able to create a quick and easy portfolio to showcase your work with a unique and cutting-edge touch. couple it with your outstanding services and boost your business to the next degree. pixzlo has a minimalistic touch yet it still looks complete and very appealing to the eye. looking fantastic on retina devices, compatible with all mobile gadgets and modern web browsers, pixzlo has you covered with all and then some. no matter where they come from and what platform they use, your site will always run smoothly and seamlessly. more info / download demo avada without a doubt, this is themeforest’s most successful product. they proudly claim that the customer will not need any other wordpress themes, after experiencing the quality of this one. avada is their passion project, and they are eager to show it to you. the biggest update that this product has ever had, was recently added. this proves to the client that the developers are standing by their theme, and they are constantly tweaking and updating it. its page builder feature is astonishing, it successfully blends elegance of design with amazing practicality and user-friendliness. avada’s versatility also includes the ability to control your site’s dimensions, altering its width. these developers have also demonstrated their willingness to listen to feedback as they have added a home page sidebar and a default sidebar. this binary sidebar has been requested by many clients. also, given the variable width, now your page can support a larger number of columns. more info / download demo amax amax is a multi-purpose wordpress theme that has an almost limitless supply of useful features. the developers designed it to adapt to all websites, regardless of their niche. amax has incorporated the versatile visual composer plugin, with an addition 15 content elements that are sure to improve your experience. they also extended some default settings like row backgrounds, animations, colors, row fancy edges and many more. in terms of sliders, you can choose between two of the most popular plugins on wordpress: layerslider and slider revolution. regardless of what you choose, the result will be amazing. there are several options for your page title, as you can select the background color, pre-determined parallax effect, or image. amax has a total of 3 header layouts, with the option to configure a transparent or custom background. if you are a new wordpress user and you wish to learn more about this theme and its features, be sure to check out the theme overview video explanation. it can explain the primary features in detail, and it only last 4 minutes. there is also a live preview available, along with some interesting screenshots. amax gives you complete creative control over your own website, resulting in a unique site that can overshadow its competition. to find out more about this theme you can read this detailed review. more info / download demo osmosis osmosis is a theme for the modern age. all elements and features are designed to enhance the look and performance of your site, leading to a quality experience for all customers. this product is completely responsive. it works and looks best on all platforms and devices, regardless of screen size or resolution. with osmosis, the customer gets a wide range of choices, as personalization is a key component of any quality experience. the developers constructed the options panel using the versatile redux framework, offering many customization options that alter the core features of this theme. when it comes to page building, even the most inexperienced novice can create some eye-catching sites. this is due to the fact that osmosis has incorporated the visual composer by wpbakery. this gives you creative control over your own posts, pages and portfolio items. there are over thirty elements available. with this theme, you can commercialize your items or services. you are able to construct a personal online shop in a very short amount of time. you can make this possible through the use of the most popular plugin on wordpress: woocommerce. those who wish to change the aesthetic elements of their page can interact with the color customizer. thanks to the backend color pickers, you can present personalized skins in unique and interesting ways. with all of these options for customization and optimization, you can create a site like no other. the synergy between osmosis features is what makes this theme great. images, titles, videos, sliders, and maps can all work together in order to represent your vision. you may also alter the alignment and color of your page titles. the typography is elegant and classy, adding a layer of class and sophistication to your content. more info / download demo total it is not a cliché to say that for a business person, time is money. every minute is valuable, and you can’t spend a long time on setting up your website or learning complicated lines of coding. the creators designed total to facilitate that process, and provides you with the layout editing tool that will not waste your valuable resources. using this versatile theme, you will be able to create a wide array of web sites, viable for any field of activity. users simply love it, and their multiple 5-star reviews are a testimony to its quality and reliability. for site construction, total features an exquisite front-end drag and drop builder, along with a limitless variety of color patterns. custom fonts also enhance the experience, giving you more options to tinker with. it is obvious that this theme was a passion project for the developers. the support system is great, and it experiences regular updates that further improve its quality. total’s name is indicative of its quality because it provides the whole package. it has multiple page layouts, and a front-end page builder. you can modify the height of your headers and interact with the advanced redux admin panel. this theme also includes crisp animations, advanced meta options, video lightbox galleries, and custom menus for each page. they optimized it for search engines and it runs great, and made it compatible with woocommerce. it really went for the kitchen sink approach. more info / download demo salient as its name suggests salient is a wordpress professional theme that can fulfill multiple purposes. you can use this on all types of sites, but its true relevance is with professional business sites. salient has a drag and drop page builder, and a wide array of team options. the developers made it retina ready and woocommerce ready. salient uses a simple shortcode generator, some wide and boxed layouts and features a limitless number of colors. the theme offers premium exclusive slider, and an informative video tutorial series. if you are unsure, and have not decide if you should buy, the product includes demon for many features, so you will be able to make an informed decision regarding the transaction. it page builder is quite versatile, allowing you to construct a page from the ground up. it is fully customizable, and it is possible to edit every single feature. the option panel cover the most import choices, further increasing its user-friendliness. salient has a state of the art premium slider, developed by the innovative theme nectar. it permits swiping, video background assistance, hardware acceleration and loop options. if you are an english language speaker, you can use the fully narrated tutorial videos included in the theme. the default portfolios are gorgeous, versatile and extremely easy to implement. they optimized salient for search engines and offers a wide array of changeable icons. view the gallery and decide what you want! more info / download demo betheme you can always tell when the developers are passionate about their project, because they are willing to constantly tweak it and add continuous updates. a total of 49 demos are included, betheme appreciates any amount of customer response to what they are doing. a wide array of businesses is using it, from plumbing services, to search engine optimization companies and minor law firms. their vast customer base is indicative not only of the quality of the theme, but also of its versatility. no single product can satisfy such a wide niche without having some serious customization features. after you install it, the world is your oyster. after setting up the web page, you will always have the option to go back and mess around with the features in order to craft your ideal web page. by purchasing betheme, your small or medium-sized business will get the head start that it deserves. more info / download demo brooklyn themeforest is filled with great wordpress professional themes, yet brooklyn manages to stand out as one of the best. this theme is highly flexible, and the reviews are overwhelmingly positive. it is a versatile parallax theme, that succeeds in adapting to the customer’s needs. if need be, it may also be used for your personal website, it is not restricted for business use. as is the case with all quality themes, constant updates are improving the already impressive product. it is currently at version 2.6, with more to come. for the undecided, 12 unique demos are on offer, which allows the customer to experience the theme without having to commit to a purchase. it has a great portfolio management system, with 3 different, interesting showcases. brooklyn features plenty of media support, with built-in tables. it is translation ready, granting its wide appeal and accessibility for an international audience. it currently incorporates a slider revolution, and it offers customers free support service. this theme’s greatest advantage is its limitless potential. you can shape and mold into whatever you want. more info / download demo flat woocommerce theme unlike any other wordpress professional themes that have an overall approach, this theme specifically targets the commercial niche. it has free lifetime updates, online documentation, the catalog mode option and it includes a child theme. featuring scss files and an seo optimized programming, the creators definitely prepared flat for the highly competitive online marketplace. be sure to check out their video tutorials and cool banner layouts. other features include the shortcodes that allow for home page customization, the portfolio pages, the versatile sidebars and a facebook compatibility plugin. the design looks beautiful due to the custom creation, and it gives you the option to modify all of its features. the pre-designed banners have crisp animation, and there is also plenty of dummy content. more info / download demo dante dante is a theme that was crafted for an expansive international market. it features multi-lingual support, given that it is available in bulgarian, french, german, spanish, swedish, polish, dutch and russian. the developers constantly update this theme to keep up with wordpress and the modern web. this patch added a full width header feature, a row option for its page building tools, and tabbed meta boxes. this is one of those themes that more than pays for itself in the long run. it offers plenty of goodies with its basic package, as it contains every element necessary for starting a reputable business. they constructed it using the bootstrap framework, giving it unparalleled mobile accessibility. the page’s viewport dimension can increase, basically displaying 12 entire columns. in order to give you more control, dante includes a visibility shortcode. this theme is basically a sandbox, letting you play around and experiment as much as you want. great for simple and complicated web pages, any small business or blog can enjoy this purchase. it is retina ready, compatible with any retina display. dante includes a wide array of shortcodes, and it is woocommerce compatible. more info / download demo if you couldn’t find the right theme for your website you might want to check this collection where we have selected the best and the most popular wordpress themes that are available today. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. corporateflat designprofessional themesresponsivewordpress themes share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts 31 mobile friendly wordpress food blog themes for foodies, chefs & food photographers 2020 looking to start a food blog to share your recipes? these food blog wordpress themes… 20 best wordpress themes for artists such as musicians, singers, painters and other creatives – 2020 are you an artist looking to showcase your work online? these wordpress themes for artists… 20 maternity and children care wordpress themes 2019 pregnancy is, unquestionably, one of the most thrilling phases in the life of every woman.… top 20 white wordpress themes to refresh your website design without a doubt, your business needs a professional website. get some inspiration from these clean… 38 best health & medical wordpress themes for hospitals, doctors, clinics & blogs 2020 a list of the best medical wordpress themes designed and developed for health and wellness… 18 cutest animal & pet wordpress themes 2020 if you own a pet shop, veterinary or any other sort of animal-related business and… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 30+ mobile friendly wordpress themes to help with seo and website usability on mobile 2020 next post: 39 most popular marketing wordpress themes for startups, landing pages, products, apps and services 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×