wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 29 best wordpress themes for artists (2019) 29 best wordpress themes for artists (2019) last updated on august 8th, 2019 by editorial staff 162 shares share tweet share pin are you looking for the best wordpress themes for artists? sometimes its hard to find the perfect theme that can showcase your creativity and talent. in this article, we have hand-picked some of the best wordpress themes for artists. building a wordpress site for artists due to the flexibility and freedom it offers, wordpress is used by artists all over the world to share and promote their work online. first you need to make sure that you are using the right platform. a self-hosted wordpress site gives you the freedom to use all features of wordpress. next, you need to sign up for a wordpress hosting account and register a domain name. we recommend using bluehost for hosting because they are one of the largest hosting companies in the world and an official wordpress recommended hosting partner. they are also offering our users 65% off + a free domain name. once you have signed up for hosting, it is time to install wordpress. head over to our step by step guide on how to start a wordpress blog and you will be up and running in no time. you can now choose a theme for your wordpress site. select a theme from our list below. if you need help installing the theme, then check out our guide on how to install a wordpress theme. having said that, let’s take a look at some of the best wordpress themes for artists. note: this list contains both free and paid wordpress themes and all of them are fully mobile responsive. 1. astra astra is a powerful wordpress multi-purpose theme suitable for artists and creative types. it comes with dozens of ready-to-use website templates that allow you to instantly create any type of website. it comes with powerful custom widgets, sidebars, page templates, and flexible customization options. it is also a gutenberg ready wordpress theme with custom gutenberg blocks and templates that you can install. 2. breakthrough pro breakthrough pro is built on top of genesis theme framework which is known for its performance and rock solid code. this elegantly designed wordpress theme features a minimalist design with just the right amount of color. it comes with built-in support for ecommerce, which would allow you to sell your artwork onnline. it requires minimal setup and most theme settings would just work out of the box. 3. neve neve is an all-purpose wordpress theme suitable for artists, art stores, photographers, and other creative professionals. it is highly customizable and comes with a flexible homepage design that you can easily customize. it comes with powerful customization options to choose your own style, colors, headers, and more. it is ecommerce ready and works with all top page builder plugins. 4. indigo indigo is a gorgeous multipurpose wordpress theme carefully designed with an artistic approach to details. it comes with easy to use modules that you can just drag and drop to build your homepage layout. it also includes 14 ready made templates to make a website. you can install and then just replace the content with your own. these websites include a blog, magazine, portfolio, and stories theme that would work perfectly for an art website. 5. oceanwp oceanwp is a popular wordpress theme for artistic blogs, professionals, designers, andn hobbyists. this incredibly powerful wordpress theme gives you tons of customization options to make it your own. its paid extensions would give you even more templates and customization options. it is ready for ecommerce and can be used to create multilingual websites. 6. nico nico is a beautifully designed wordpress theme for artists, photographers, illustrators, and more. it includes a gorgeous filterable portfolio with grid layout that helps you display your work elegantly. nico includes several customization options such as custom colors, custom background and header, and social media integration. it has a custom theme panel to help you easily build your website. 7. heron heron is a minimalist wordpress theme for artists, bloggers, and writers. it features beautiful typography, earth toned colors, and a clean spacious layout. it uses large fully scalable featured images and videos, which makes your pages more engaging. it has a full screen search overlay next to the navigation menu on top. it also comes with author bio box for multi-author wordpress sites. it is easy to setup and customize using the built-in theme options panel. 8. hestia if you are looking for a versatile theme with flexible features, then checkout hestia. it is a simple yet powerful wordpress theme that can be used to build an artist portfolio. it comes with a beautiful homepage template with a large image on top with your call to action buttons. it is ecommerce ready and works with all top wordpress plugins. 9. ambiance pro ambiance pro is a wordpress theme for artists, bloggers, and photographers. it is built on the rock solid foundation of genesis framework. designed specifically to beautifully showcase your photos and images, ambiance pro comes with beautiful layout choices and elegant typography. it has multiple page templates for your blog, archives, and landing pages. it is quick and easy to setup using the live theme customizer. the homepage is fully widgetized so you can easily set it up in minutes. 10. creativo creativo is a flexible wordpress theme suitable to build almost any kind of website. it includes a built-in portfolio section with beautiful display options. it also has several layout choices for your blog and homepage, and it can also be used as a single page theme. inside you will also find sections to add services, photo galleries, testimonials, and more. creativo ships with bonus premium page builder, slider, and a live chat plugin. 11. exposure exposure is a stylish multi-purpose wordpress theme with portfolio management system built-in. it is ideal for photography, fashion, lifestyle, arts and crafts websites. it comes with a drag and drop page builder which allows you to design your pages the way you want. it has lots of customization options built-in and it is fully mobile responsive. 12. coastline coastline is a beautiful wordpress portfolio theme with unique design. it includes powerful custom widgets, multiple layout choices, and a well crafted portfolio section. it has a fixed left sidebar with custom background support and comes with different page templates for blog, portfolio, archives, and galleries. 13. relive want to tell your stories with an engaging layout? check out relive. it is a wordpress theme for storytellers, photographers, artists, and more. it is designed to offer an immersive user experience with audio, video, images, and text. it is ideal for long form content, portfolios, photo and video galleries. it has beautiful templates for single posts and pages, photo galleries, and a unique homepage layout. inside you will also find tons of customization options with color schemes, sidebars, custom widgets, shortcodes, and more. 14. studio pro if you are looking for a modern wordpress theme for artists, then take a look at studio pro. this beautifully designed wordpress theme comes with support for full screen video background on the homepage. it includes multiple page templates, sidebar areas, and transparent navigation menus on top. it is beginner-friendly and all theme options are neatly organized under customizer. 15. suarez suarez is a stunningly beautiful and modern wordpress theme for bloggers, photographers, artists, and storytellers. it is designed to offer an immersive user experience with dazzling display of photographs and images. the homepage layout features a large full screen header image at the top, which is followed by a masonry grid of your most important content with clever usage of images. other features include categories carousel, sidebar filters, subcription box, social media widgets, and more. 16. nisarg nisarg is a beautiful free wordpress theme suitable for artists and bloggers. it comes with a clean layout with two navigation menus and a large full-width header image. it also supports custom backgrounds, custom colors, and multiple post formats for video, galleries, and other posts. all theme options are easily customizable using the theme customizer. 17. peak peak is a modern wordpress theme with unique layout and style. suitable for artists, illustrators, and photographers. it features a tile based display of images in a responsive grid layout. it comes with multiple layouts for pages as well as posts. other features include a mega menu on top, social media menu, slide-in sidebar widgets, easy setup, and more. 18. memories memories is a beautiful wordpress theme designed for lifestyle, fashion, arts, and personal websites. it comes with a gallery display that showcases your photographs, designs, and other visual artworks beautifully. the theme includes multiple color schemes, multiple layout choices, custom background, and header support as well as custom widgets for your social media profiles. 19. sanremo sanremo is a free wordpress theme for bloggers and artists. it features a minimalist spacious layout with large featured images. it also includes custom widget for social media links, a sticky navigation menu at top, and a footer widget area. 20. mozzy need a bright and lively wordpress theme for your illustrations? check out mozzy. it is a wordpress portfolio theme for illustrators, graphic designers, and photographers. it includes a widgetized homepage layout with a slider and featured content areas. it comes with built-in sections for portfolio, services, and clients. other features include custom post formats, backgrounds, headers, and social widgets. 21. draft draft is another free wordpress theme suitable for artists, illustrators, and bloggers. it uses featured images to display a grid based layout on the homepage. it comes with a welcome message box, custom colors, header and background support. all theme options can be setup using customizer. 22. ultra ultra is a modern all-purpose wordpress theme with beautiful ready-made demos and a drag and drop layout builder. it comes with built-in section for portfolio and full ecommerce support to sell your artwork. it is packed with layout choices, custom widgets, gutenberg blocks, and header styles. it is easy to use and perfect for non-tech savvy folks looking for a professional web design. 23. parallax parallax is a modern and stylish wordpress theme for portfolio, arts, and photography websites. it features fullscreen parallax backgrounds and a unique layout. it ships with 40 different layouts that can be installed with 1-click. it also has an integrated drag and drop page builder. among other features you will find custom widgets for social media, portfolio section, and image filters. it can be used as a single page theme, a single page with infinite scroll, or as a regular multi-page theme. 24. presence as the name suggests, presence is a wordpress theme for professionals and business to create their online presence. this well-made wordpress theme comes with several ready-made demos that you can install with 1-click. it comes in multiple colors and includes different styles, layouts, templates to choose from. with detailed customization options and page builder support you can create highly engaging websites with in minutes. 25. infinity pro if you are looking for a sleek design, then take a look at infinity pro. this elegant wordpress theme is optimized for more conversions and improved user experience, which makes it perfect for art galleries, art magazines, and other creative publications. it is built with genesis framework and comes with a drag and drop homepage layout. all theme options are neatly organized and require minimum time to set up. 26. profile looking for a theme to promote your personal brand? profile is a wordpress theme to promote your personal brand online. it ships with social media integration to all your social media profiles. it also includes a beautiful portfolio section. the homepage displays your personal photo at the top, which is followed by your twitter feed, social profile links, blog posts, and portfolio items. it is easy to customize and comes with several shortcodes, templates, and custom widgets. 27. it is a wrap if video plays an important role in your artwork, then wrap can be the perfect way to display it. it has three homepage layouts, several content discovery features, and a beautiful media playback popup for your videos. it also includes 4 creative header styles, featured content carousel, social media integration, and a visual page builder. it includes several page layouts, custom widgets, and easy customization options. 28. eclipse eclipse is a stylish wordpress theme for photographers, artists, and bloggers. theme homepage features a beautiful slider showcasing your latest work. it also displays your pages and recent posts in blocks on the homepage. it comes with a custom widget to display your instagram photos and videos. it also has beautiful gallery templates, portfolio section, and is fully compatible with woocommerce. 29. everly everly is a sophisticated wordpress theme for personal websites, blogs, and artists. it takes the minimalist approach to design with a spacious layout that makes your images popout. it comes with 4 different homeopage and blog layouts, post templates, galleries, and icon fonts. it comes with unlimited colors, slider plugin, social media integration, dedicated ad spaces, and much more. theme setup is quite simple allowing you to quickly get started without struggling with settings. that’s all for now. we hope this article helped you find the best wordpress themes for artists and designers. you may want to take a look at our envira gallery plugin if you want a more robust wordpress gallery solution to display your work. also don’t forget to check out our ultimate step by step wordpress seo guide for beginners to boost your seo rankings. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 162 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 4 commentsleave a reply cinnamon andrews says: mar 26, 2018 at 11:34 am any of these art themes with portfolios compatible with woocommerce? there is so much out there! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 30, 2018 at 8:37 pm hi cinnamon, yes, many of these themes are compatible with woocommerce for example indigo, creativo, ambiance pro. when checking theme websites look for woocommerce support. if it is not mentioned, then the theme doesn’t fully support woocommerce. reply christy says: sep 2, 2017 at 1:44 pm i looked for nico on wordpress, but they don’t seem to offer it anymore reply wpbeginner support says: sep 4, 2017 at 12:06 am hi christy, nico is a paid wordpress theme available from cssigniter (a premium wordpress theme shop). please click on the link above and it will directly take you to the theme’s page. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.