skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » 29 most popular premium and free social sharing plugins for wordpress 2020 29 most popular premium and free social sharing plugins for wordpress 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 34 comments social sharing is now an integral part of our internet experience. furthermore, it’s constantly on the rise and becoming popular with older folk as well. with so much information on the internet, it is a real feat to track down what you really need. however, search engines make it possible to find information that you need, but social media also plays a significant role in helping you find your favorite websites. not to mention your friends or the people whom you follow have a lot in common with you and when they share something, correspondingly you’ll find the shared information of interest. 72% of internet users are active on social media, not to mention it represents a marketing opportunity which you cannot ignore. after search engines, it is social media that drives most traffic to websites. unlike normal advertisements and television slots, it serves as a 2-way communication and helps build brand awareness. creating good content is only a job half done. getting it before the target audience is the other tricky half. that’s where social sharing can give a leg up. you can tap a share button from almost any screen and content is instantly shared. i’d sincerely recommend you read this excellent article on shareaholic which provides insightful information about the sources of website traffic over the past few years from search engines and different social networks. there are many social sharing plugins for wordpress available which you could use on your website. i’ve picked out a few of the popular ones here for a quick read. premium plugins monarch monarch’s a top-rated social sharing plugin with a plethora of options and comes from elegant themes. personal settings are easily imported and exported from site which monarch supports. with more than twenty social networks that it supports, the dashboards provides ease of management for it. to encourage social shares, there’re several display and placement options. the features below can make it versatile – the default color of the icons is the color and logo of the respective networks, but you can change it to your liking. colors, shapes, and orientation can be altered to match your personal taste. the icons respond in multiple ways when the mouse hovers over them – simple, grow, flip, border, and slide. you can pick the icons and arrange them in any order, displaying even the share counts. placement options include triggered popups and fly-ins. you can make it so that the buttons appear after a time delay or any other trigger that you set. for example, reaching the end of a page or a prolonged period of inactivity. a surefire way to capture the attention of your site’s visitors. for content laden pages, the icons can be placed above or below the content or at both places. it dynamically detects the beginning and end of posts and pages. the handy social floating sidebar will continuously prompt readers to share web pages. the share buttons are placed on videos and images. icons appear when a visitor hovers over them. they conveniently tone down in size whist accessed via mobile devices. statistics such as shares, likes, and follows can be monitored effectively through the dashboard. the share count can be displayed upon reaching a certain number. purchase price: for $89/year, you’ll receive access to 87 premium themes and their offering collection of plugins including monarch. kiwi kiwi is a simple and easy to use social sharing plugin that is available as free as well as premium version. it is one of the most popular social sharing plugins for wordpress and is bundles with some of the themes made by colorlib as well. free version premium version social warfare social warfare is a visually stunning plugin that gives you access to great features. it supports popular social networks and works pretty well with most well built wordpress themes. plugin supports pinterest images. the potential increase in traffic as a result of pinterest interaction’s high for some industries, but the size of the default images acts as a dampener. with social warfare, pinterest specific images can be loaded, without affecting the regular images. another plus with social warfare is that you get to add tweetable quote boxes in different designs within your content box and you can add custom tweet quotes to individual posts. social warfare is developer friendly and a user can extend it’s functionality with add-ons. it includes the much in demand frame buster plugin that protects your content by preventing others from adding content over your own. some of the features available as part of social warfare – choice of over 75 different colors and styles. responsive, fits any screen size. custom widgets can be added to posts to show the number of shares. rich, large summary cards can be added to tweets. while total and individual share counts can be displayed, low share count can be kept hidden. you can also track shares with utm tracking code. purchase price: starts from $24 a year for one website to $200 for 10 websites. social share & locker pro social share & locker pro helps make your website visible among social networks. ‘locker’ refers to the facility of locking up content that can be unlocked only upon adding a share, pretty much the same as the previous plugin. the features that make this rank among the better plugins are – 28 social networks are available and you can take your pick of icons. 10 predefined themes are included and they come with the best fonts. full name of the networks/ just the icons/ social share count can be displayed or disabled. email sharing is possible with a popup option. compatible with woocommerce, jigoshop and buddypress. this plugin is directly integrated with visual composer for easy set up and use. purchase price: one time purchase of $15 tweetdis tweetdis is a simple wordpress plugin for easy tweets. it works on a slightly different concept from the usual social sharing plugins. with tweetdis, you can create content like tweetable quotes easily. tweetdis also understands that visual content always works better on social media and with this plugin, you can even tweet images. besides, it also has the features below – it is easy to use and many designs are available. you can add “click to tweet” boxes very easily. many design layouts. can customize the tweet boxes. call to action can be customized. text highlighting support. a default @username can be tagged to your tweets. purchase price: if you’d like to use tweetdis on your website, it’ll cost you $37, but for only $10 more you can use it on 5 websites. for $77, you can use it on any number of websites. flow flow wordpress social stream with flow flow, a stream having a combination of different social feeds can be created from the admin area. you can copy the generated shortcode anywhere on your website. when it called up for the first time, it gets cached in the server, and the subsequent visitors will see amazingly fast responses. you can also use filters for complex streams. the type of server that your website runs on restricts the number of streams that you can have. this plugin is quite resource heavy and can find it difficult to load on old or low end devices. you can moderate your social feeds by excluding posts by urls, by name or words. it supports over 15 social networks. purchase price: $24 for a pretty interesting sharing plugin. premium social media widgets for elementor if you are using elementor drag and drop page builder, add premium social media widgets and take the experiance to the next level. it is an easy to use extensions that unlocks premium widgets for instagram, facebook, twitter and behance. you can now add feeds to your websites and blogs effortlessly and quickly, without the need to make any advanced moves. install, import and you are ready to roll. you can now beautifully display what is going on over on your social media profiles. not only that, this way, you can boost your social presence, gain new followers and elevate your overall online presence to new heights. in just a few clicks, you can make a big difference that will show the world how sociable you are. configure default settings, fine tune each widget and make it stunningly decorate your pages. inster hence the name, inster is an instagram blog for wordpress’ new block editor, gutenberg. you can now flawlessly share your instagram images and video clips on your website or blog. inster gives you an option to display content from instagram by username, hashtag or location id. of course, there are many additional customization features for you to fine-tune inster to your heart’s content. make it smoothly integrate into your website and let it spice up the experience. the final inster layout will be 100% mobile-ready, responsive and cross-browser compatible. it rocks ten initial and fourteen hover effects and supports grids of up to twelve columns and rows. before you dive in full-tilt, first watch a sixty second video presentation of inster and get the gist of it. the tool is beginner-friendly, yet the outcome of a professional. twitter feed grid with carousel you can now add amazing twitter feeds to your websites and blogs with the help from twitter feed grid with carousel. this wordpress social sharing plugin is refined and optimized to the very last detail, making sure you get the best of the best. not just you, but the experience all your visitors have when surfing your websites will not be just amazing but extraordinary. with twitter feed grid with carousel, you can now attach a twitter feed grid layout with carousel and share with the world what is hot. you can fetch content on a per user or hashtag basis. moreover, there are also seven grid styles and eight different carousel layouts to choose from. you can customize the final design according to your taste with loads of different options that twitter feed grid with carousel has in the kit. easy side tab pro easy side tab pro is a versatile plugin that creates a responsive floating tab which you can utilize for an asortment of different purposes. of course, since we are talking about wordpress social sharing plugins, you can also use it for social media and whatnot. first and foremost, you can add unlimited tabs and tab items. that said, you can alter the layout exactly how you fancy, sporting just the items that you find are of value to the end user. you can play around with different options and features and create a convenient floating tab. moreover, easy side tab pro features ten different template options, four different tab positions, tweeter feed, social icons, custom shortcode, ecommerce products and even blog posts. easy side tab pro supports it all, even a newsletter subscription form. social snap social snap is a fantastic and practical wordpress social sharing plugin that helps you boost your website’s traffic through the roof. instead of solely relying on search engine traffic, utilize social media platforms and go above and beyond. with social snap, you have complete control over what your users do on your page regarding social shares and engagement. it is a tool that anyone can use, from bloggers and small businesses to agencies, designers, developers and all the rest who want to expand their reach and grow their audience. installing, setting up and using social snap is quick and straightforward. the social sharing plugin also comes with numerous features and assets, like auto-scheduling, old posts boost and advanced analytics. social snap allows your users to log in to your page using their social accounts and gets rid of all the hassle. if you are ready to scale, do it with social snap. more info easy social share buttons for wordpress easy social share buttons is a sharing solution that helps promote sharing, enables monitoring and increases social traffic. it offers 18 display locations and supports about 35 social networks. additional buttons like love this button, comments, print and send to mail are available. social media image sharing is free and available on wordpress.org, although video sharing is a paid option. it comes with an easy to set up wizard. purchase price: $19 to add social share buttons to your wp site. freemium plugins simple share buttons adder a simple plugin with which you can add share buttons to all your posts and pages, simple share buttons adder lets you pick an image set that goes well with your website or add your own. the features packed in this plugin are – 10 different button sets that scale perfectly to mobile devices. colors can be customized with color picker functionality. urls can be shortened. share tags can be adjusted and buttons placed where you want them. all share button events can be tracked from your dashboard. the most recent update (nov 2015) includes yummly sharing functionality – users can now share recipes from the same page, without having to use messy popups. you can place these buttons on individual pages. the developers also made email popup option easier to use. moreover, they officially removed twitter share counts and released this version without it. purchase price: premium version is also available. for $10, you can activate simple share buttons on 1 site, for $25 on 3 sites and for $100 on an unlimited number of websites. active installs: 100,000+, star rating 4.7. sumome sumome is not a single app, but a suite of apps designed to increase traffic. and a wordpress compatible version of sumome makes it easy to integrate with wordpress sites. it is not necessary for you to use the entire suite, and you can pick only the ones you want by creating an account. this app can add share buttons over individual targeted images, facilitates url shortening and statistics. moreover, it supports 16 social services including facebook, pinterest and twitter. utm will help you see exactly how much traffic every shared link is directing your way. purchase price: free with branding and paid options which start at $10/month for their starter pack and $100/month for their professional pack. add this with add this social sharing icon, a variety of designs and icon sizes are possible. it also supports over 200 social media services. moreover, the makers claim that websites that use add this sharing buttons witness a 20% increase in sharing. furthermore, the plugin is a free, but there’s a premium version. lastly, the premium version has additional features like floating sidebar and a couple of additional widgets. active installs: 200,000+, star rating 3.7. free plugins shareaholic shareaholic is one of the more popular social sharing plugins. their award winning toolset for websites increases pageviews, repeat visits, time on site and sharing rates. also, the easy to use analytics keyboard will help understand audiences and deliver appropriate content. the following features can all be found in shareaholic, a variety of looks for the social sharing buttons, more attractive than the native buttons. support for wordpress, drupal, tumblr, shopify and more. support for social analytics and shortcode placement. related content is displayed. control over display of share counts. lastly, shareaholic (in the words of the developers) is an all-in-one content amplification and monetization platform that includes social sharing. purchase price: it is free, but you need to register to access the features on offer. active installs 100,000+, star rating 3.8. mashshare mashshare offers a highly customizable setting for social media sharing. the free service also supports facebook, twitter and email. moreover, there are a number of free add-ons, but to add the other social networks you’ll have to move to the premium version. active installs: 200,000+, star rating 4.7. wp social sharing wp social sharing adds attractive social sharing buttons to your wordpress site. this plugin also supports major networks like facebook, twitter, linkedin, pinterest, xing and google+. moreover, the buttons are responsive and become smaller for devices with a resolution less than 480px. you can also easily reorder the buttons and you can add text before the share buttons. furthermore, the plugin allows you to choose whether or not to load css/ javascript. active installs: 10,000+, star rating 4.7. social media share buttons & social sharing icons if you would like to add a social sharing function to your website or blog, you can now do it with ease by employing social media share buttons & social sharing icons plugin. with a name like that, you instantly know what you get. however, we will hit you with a bunch more information so you will decide easier. out of the box, the wordpress social sharing plugin supports over two hundred social media platforms. and that’s not all; you can also upload your custom icons and use the tool for something entirely different. furthermore, you can choose between sixteen entirely different styles of social media icons to add to your page. you can also add counts to the buttons so they will immediately see how popular particular content is. additionally, you can encourage your visitors to follow or like your social media accounts with a pop-up. active installs: 200,000, star rating 4.9. social share icons & social share buttons here is an alternative, similar to the plugin that you just checked out above. it delivers a ton of options and solutions to add enticing and super clickable social sharing icons to your website or blog. indeed, the process of adding the buttons to your page is quick and effortless, very newbie-friendly if you will. but you can watch a video presentation first and get things moving forward afterward. in the bundle, you will find a whole bunch of different social media icons, from the most popular ones to those which you might have never heard of before. select from sixteen different styles and place social sharing buttons before or after posts, make them float or specify a static location on your page. there are actually loads of different variations that unlock right in front of you once you unbox social share icons & social share buttons plugin. get it now, it is free after all. active installs: 60,000, star rating 4.9. sassy social share when it comes to sharing your content on social media, all you truly need is a plugin like sassy social share. the tool does it all, making sure that the implementation is kids’ stuff. on top of that, sassy social share is also gdpr compliant and compatible with all wordpress themes, amp, mobile devices and web browsers. hint: this wordpress social sharing plugin does not work on a local server; better use it with a wordpress theme and keep things simple. some of the features of sassy social share include but are not limited to icon customization, about one hundred social sharing and bookmarking services, counter, widgets and shortcodes. you can choose between standard and floating icons, set the desired location and use sassy social share for sharing woocommerce products. along with the fact that sassy social share cost nothing, it also does not require registrations and keeps your outstanding website performance intact. active installs: 80,000, star rating 4.8. share buttons by addtoany although you are unlikely to use them, share buttons by addtoany offers more than 100 share buttons. it finds a place in this list because it allows for a great deal of customization. you can also track social media presence using google analytics. active installs: 200,000+, star rating 4.7. jetpack jetpack is a incredibly versatile plugin, but can slow down pages just a bit. this plugin is not just about social sharing, but has other functionalities as well such as security services and helps with a ton of other important things as well. the sharing module also allows you to choose the mode of sharing content – social media, print or email. moreover, you can display buttons, text links, and icons for faster loading time. active installs: more than a million, star rating 4. super socializer add social sharing buttons to your website or blog and raise your potential for growing your project to new heights. after all, if your content is so amazingly good, you know your readers and users will not mind sharing it with the world for you. let them do the marketing and content distribution for you. with super socializer, you can now get the ball rolling without the need to spend a single penny. it is a powerful tool that gets the job done at the speed of lightning. moreover, super socializer is compatible with buddypress, bbpress and woocommerce, gdpr compliant and in tune with the gutenberg block builder. it does not require any 3rd-part registrations and no technical knowledge. there are tons of features that you get with super socializer, ensuring you add social sharing that is exactly to your liking. scriptless social sharing if you would like to keep things super simple, you better consider using scriptless social sharing. there is no javascript and no other fancy stuff, as some other wordpress social sharing plugins use. instead, scriptless social sharing is considered a super basic alternative that still gets the job done exceptionally well. with the tool, you can now add a social sharing function to your pages and posts so your readers can share it with their friends and family on their favorite platforms. via the swift and straightforward configuration page, you can set things up for your website speedily and already start benefitting from the goodies that scriptless social sharing brings to the table. specify which content should have sharing buttons, which buttons should be added, button output, as well as location settings. simple social buttons with amazing features and functions, simple social buttons is a powerful and practical free social sharing wordpress plugin. whether you operate a website or a blog, with social media buttons, all your visitors get a chance to share your content on their favorite social networks. for your information, simple social buttons supports all the popular networks. moreover, with simple social buttons, you can add them to the sidebar, above or below content, photos, popups, you name it, simple social buttons support its. you can also display share counts, total shares, customize the background, style icon color, hide social sharing on mobile devices and activate the hover effect. what’s more, simple social buttons already comes in multiple languages, like english, french, danish, slovak, spanish, ukrainian and german, to name a few. instagram feed instagram feed is a wordpress plugin with which you can display instagram photos from any non-private instagram account through a single or multiple feeds. also, you can arrange the multiple feeds in the same page or on different pages throughout the website. furthermore, you can save time by posting photos to instagram and automatically displaying them on your website. active installs: 100,000, star rating 5. enjoy instagram all your images can be displayed in carousel or grid format in lightbox mode with enjoy instagram. moreover, the developers optimized it for mobile devices. active installs: 10,000+, star rating 3.9 here’s a plugin which is twitter specific 🙂 click to tweet click to tweet is yet another social sharing plugin with special focus on twitter. it is also one of the easiest ways to promote, share and track your content on twitter. to sum up it is important not to go overboard and put in all the wordpress social sharing plugins that are available. add only what is necessary and what is suitable to the demography of your site’s audiences. this post would be incomplete, if i did not mention here that twitter has officially discontinued twitter share counts. it may still be available through other methods, but third party buttons created for twitter will not fetch a response. these plugins will also remove the count component of twitter button. however when you’re picking a plugin, consider facebook’s ban on like gating. which plugin you choose is very much a personal choice. it depends on the unique character of your website and audiences. monarch offers a variety of configurations and loads pretty fast. social media feather, simple share buttons adder and mashshare are also great options. additionally, simple share buttons are quite straightforward without any fancy settings and so is social sharing by danny. if i had no specific requirements and were looking for an awesome social sharing plugin, i’d either go with one of the free options or choose a premium plugin which possesses a feature my website simply can not do without. i hope the article was helpful and you find the right social sharing plugin for your wordpress website. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. sharingsocial mediasocial sharingwordpress share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts 9 most accurate wordpress visitor counter plugins are you thinking about adding visitors counter on your website to display the number of… 21 best free wordpress quiz plugins for 2020 need to run a quiz or survey on your website? these wordpress quiz plugins are… 5 best wordpress auto poster plugins you must try manually posting from your website to your social media website is time-consuming. thankfully, you’ll find… top 14 image lossless compression plugins for speeding up wordpress lossless image compression is a big deal, more often than not it is the actual… how to run an a/b test on your wordpress blog (plugins and tools) running an a/b test on your website can have incremental effects on your conversion rates,… 23 best premium & free wordpress menu plugins 2020 website design is largely about enhancing user experience. while it's important for a website to… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 21 best free wordpress booking plugins 2020 next post: the best free wordpress font plugins to change fonts with ease 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×