mywifequitherjob.com primary menu skip to content home back to start start hereget your store running our story who is steve chou? blog get the latest podcast subscribe & listen toolsproducts i love income reportstrack my online progress blogging, ecommerce, the my wife quit her job podcast with steve chou 296: 6 ways to become a millionaire in the next 5 years with steve chou audio steve chou leave a comment share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest http://traffic.libsyn.com/mywifequitherjob/episodemillionairefinal.mp3 podcast: download (duration: 19:09 — 22.2mb) if you are living paycheck to paycheck or saddled with debt, you probably think it’s impossible to become a millionaire unless you win the lottery or inherit a large sum of money. and it’s true. if you continue down your current path of spending all the money you earn or working at a dead end job, you’ll never ever become a millionaire. but if you formulate a plan, start now, and develop the right habits, you can easily learn how to become a millionaire within the next decade (or sooner depending on the path you choose to take. in this episode, you’ll learn all of the different ways that i’ve personally made a million dollars in the past 20 years. what you’ll learn 6 ways to become a millionaire in the next 5 years why you will never become a millionaire working a regular job. why becoming a millionaire requires some amount of luck how to improve your luck other resources and books the millionaire next door: the surprising secrets of america’s wealthy sponsors klaviyo.com – klaviyo is the email marketing platform that i personally use for my ecommerce store. created specifically for ecommerce, it is the best email marketing provider that i’ve used to date. click here and try klaviyo for free. privy.com – privy is my tool of choice when it comes to gathering email subscribers for my ecommerce store. they offer easy to use email capture, exit intent, and website targeting tools that turn more visitors into email subscribers and buyers. with both free and paid versions, privy fits into any budget. click here and get 15% off towards your account. emergecounsel.com – emergecounsel is the service i use for trademarks and to get advice on any issue related to intellectual property protection. click here and get $100 off by mentioning the my wife quit her job podcast. sellerssummit.com – the ultimate ecommerce learning conference! unlike other events that focus on inspirational stories and high level bs, the sellers summit is a curriculum based conference where you will leave with practical and actionable strategies specifically for an ecommerce business. click here and get your ticket now before it sells out. transcript i need your help if you enjoyed listening to this podcast, then please support me with an itunes review. it's easy and takes 1 minute! just click here to head to itunes and leave an honest rating and review of the podcast. every review helps! click here to enter my monthly podcast giveaway contest share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest ready to get serious about starting an online business? if you are really considering starting your own online business, then you have to check out my free mini course on how to create a niche online store in 5 easy steps. in this 6 day mini course, i reveal the steps that my wife and i took to earn 100 thousand dollars in the span of just a year. best of all, it's absolutely free! leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. create a profitable online store! a completely free mini course on how to develop a niche ecommerce website in 5 easy steps! learn how to find products to sell and setup your online store. get the free course now! popular featured recent the dangers of selling on amazon and horror stories from real amazon sellers amazon fba – a 2020 guide to selling private label products canton fair – my guide to china’s largest wholesale supplier trade show how to start a business with no money. here’s exactly what i’d do how to find the best products to sell online – the ultimate step by step guide 12 things i learned from starting two 7-figure lifestyle businesses how to find china wholesale suppliers and import direct from chinese factories how much it costs to start an online store and should i dropship or carry inventory the best way to find wholesale suppliers, vendors and products for your online store how to approach a new wholesale vendor or supplier when you have no store, no site and no sales how long does it take to start an online business? private label vs retail arbitrage vs dropshipping vs wholesale – 8 ecommerce business models compared bigcommerce vs shopify – a review of the best shopping carts drip vs convertkit vs aweber vs mailchimp – reviewed by a 7 figure blogger how to start an online store, own your own website and sell online shopify seo – the definitive guide to ranking your store in search how to increase your amazon sales rank by 209% with a simple photo tweak poorly designed websites: 9 mistakes ecommerce store owners make (and how to fix them) why good grades often lead to failed businesses how to become an entrepreneur: convincing yourself to take action and the key to behavioral change recurring revenue – how to get repeat customers and why you must look beyond amazon how to start a wordpress blog on a shopify or bigcommerce store and should it be on a subdomain? how to figure out what you should do for a living if you hate your job convertkit vs aweber – a detailed email marketing comparison written by a 7 figure blogger 297: the financial repercussions of corona virus on our businesses recession 2020 – 5 ways i’m preparing for the downturn 296: 6 ways to become a millionaire in the next 5 years with steve chou amazon best sellers – how to pick top selling products for fba 295: cathy heller on how to make money as a musician how to get rich – 20 lessons on making money when lifestyle is your priority 294: grant baldwin on how to scale a niche business by 3x 293: arri bagah on how to do sms marketing the right way 292: mari smith on how to build organic facebook traffic today amazon dropshipping – is this risky business model worth it? 291: subtle conversion killers you aren’t accounting for with luke carthy shopify vs wix – which is better for ecommerce? where should i begin? read about our entrepreneurship story let's meet up at my ecommerce conference use the products i love and recommend learn how to start an ecommerce store for free learn how to start a blog for free get social about contact twitter facebook pinterest mywifequitherjob.com copyright 2020 all rights reserved. please read our privacy policy