home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership 3 actions to lead through today’s crisis michael and megan 00:40:07 download transcript the covid-19 crisis has created a lot of uncertainty for business leaders. nearly every business has been affected, some drastically. many are dealing with a dropoff in sales, learning to manage remote teams, and tremendous instability. it’s frightening, exhausting, and really shakes your confidence. here’s help. having led businesses through crises before, including the great recession, we’ve learned what it takes to navigate tough times. we’ll share three basic actions that boost your confidence to face the current reality and find new opportunities for your business. you’ll be transported from fear and reactivity to become balanced, confident, and optimistic, yes, even now! in this episode, you will— discover the three aspects of crisis that you must recognize. see why self-awareness and self-care are so vital during this time. learn why thoroughly assessing the threat leads to confidence in dealing with it. gain tips for mitigating threats to your business. identify opportunities you may not have seen if not for this upheaval. get a simple, three-step system for enrolling your entire team in your action plan. resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe confident in crisis free training zoom video platform posted on thursday, march 19, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed