project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure crafts 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas share pin honor your guests with pictures with these fun photo cake topper ideas images and photos are everything these days. people are constantly taking pictures on their phones of what they are eating, what they are wearing and who they are with. they post their daily habits on facebook, instagram, and twitter all day long. with access to so many photos, i think it’s fun to put them to good use other than leaving them in some virtual black hole…i mean cloud, especially when you are celebrating something. i put together a compilation of three fun and creative photo cake topper ideas. you can use these ideas for: birthdays anniversaries graduations showers father’s/mother’s day teacher appreciation retirement parties work events holiday parties anything! 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas video this is a youtube video i put together: if you prefer to see the step by step tutorials and materials lists, you can do that too. here are the links. step by step instructions: these 3d photo cupcake toppers are the best! they are so easy and honestly it doesn’t have to be a special occasion for you to make them. print a bunch of pictures of your friends and make these for a casual get together. if you don’t have a circle punch, you can make these with squares or rectangles. make this fun photo cake banner. i made this particular banner for my husband on father’s day. i printed a bunch of photos from my phone of him, him and me together, and of course some of the girls and him. lastly, i made this photo collage topper for my brother on his birthday. the new baby in our family (ok, she’s almost 2 but…) was born with a birthday two days apart from my brother. i didn’t want her birthday to overshadow his, so i made him this special cake topper with some fun photos of him that i found on facebook. tip: you can grab photos from all your social media networks to find photos of your friends and family. i hope you enjoyed these! don’t forget to check out some of my other photo crafts! you may also like: 6 easy paper flower diy ideas diy felt pizza bookmark make your own fruit slice gift tags diy pug bookmark like it? pin it! note: this post was originally published on september 19, 2017 and updated and improved. leave a comment join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « diy hidden storage box next post: pencil valentine printables » reader interactions leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable diy costume beard and mustache copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more