skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about 3 best wordpress landing page plugins to boost conversions by jamie if you are serious about improving conversions on your blog, you will need to be able to create specific landing pages. whether you want to increase the number of subscribers on your email list or you want to sell a new book or your services – you need landing pages. when you cut out all of the distractions from your blog such as cluttered sidebars, navigation menus and various calls to action – the result is a very focused landing page. a page with one clear goal and that goal is to convince people to take action. of course you could always hire a web designer or developer to build these landing pages for you but that can soon become expensive and time consuming as you wait for edits to be made. many of these plugins make it easy to conduct experiments by split testing different landing page designs against one another too. these wordpress landing page plugins will make it very easy for you to create your own landing pages and in the long run, they’ll save you a hell of a lot of time and money too. optimizepress optimizepress is a wordpress plugin and theme that is designed to create mobile friendly and stunning membership sites, sales pages, authority blogs, webinar registration pages, product launch funnels, and high converting landing pages. it’s a popular tool for internet marketers, online businesses, and anyone with an online presence. the first version of optimizepress functioned as a theme only, but the second version has been totally rebuilt and functions as a theme and plugin. the theme version would be mostly used by people building a fresh site from scratch. the plugin version unlocks the features of optimizepress, but it allows you to use any theme you like. the plugin version is perfect for people with existing sites who would like to build any of the customized pages that this product is designed to build. this latest version of optimizepress is equipped with a live editor type of page builder. you can start to build your first page with a blank page or you can use one of the many templates that are available. after choosing your template, you’re directed to the live editor. using the editor, you can begin to add content. the editor accurately shows you how the finished product will look as you’re in the process of editing. while using the editor, you’re able to: 1. choose from a number of elements 2. drag and drop elements into different columns or rows 3. adjust typography in the elements 4. arrange content in the columns 5. adjust background colors or images there’s a plethora of page elements available and some of them are: 1. headlines – many different styled headlines 2. navigation – add wordpress menus on the page 3. buttons – create your own buttons or use the ones that are included 4. lists – use numbers, bullets, or choose from many icons that are included 5. opt-in boxes – choose from numerous designs 6. comments – wordpress or facebook 7. testimonials 8. pricing 9. arrows – many different styles to choose from 10. audio and video players – upload your own or use youtube you can set the elements to appear after a short delay, or you can set them to fade in after a number of seconds. while many products of this magnitude use a recurring fee structure, optimizepress can be purchased by paying a one-time fee. you can select from three plans that are available, and the three plans are: 1. core package – $97 can be used on three sites 2. publisher package – $197 can be used on up to 10 sites 3. pro package – $297 can be used on up to 30 sites optimizepress makes creating landing pages simple. it is extremely intuitive and easy to use, and it is loaded with customization options, templates, and graphics to make your site look as unique as possible. visit optimizepress leadpages this landing page plugin features an easy to use interface to it. right from the start, this plugin lets you know what it is and what it has the ability to do. features and benefits from this plugin, you can create a published landing page in less than five minutes. the best thing about it, however, is that you do not have to do any type of coding! this plugin touts that it enables the snappily created landing pages to show up beautifully on smartphones and other devices beside traditional computers. you can also create leadboxes. leadboxes are a pop up window that will show when a customer clicks on a designated link, or is going to leave the website that they are on. leaddigits is another product offered on leadpages.net. you will have the ability to extract numbers and emails from sms messages with this product. another product offered on this plugin’s page is leadlinks. leadlinks allows customers to join a mailing list or subscribe to a blog with just one, simple click. customization leadpages.net explains how they have the best customization options as well. there are many landing page layouts that can be customized for any type of company. the colors, style, and images can be changed too. you can choose where to publish your leadpage or leadbox to. you have the option to publish them to wordpress, facebook, or your own personal server. testing and analytics leadpages or leadboxes offer something called split testing. split testing enables you to see what works best for the audience you are trying to captivate. you can test different options out to get feedback in a matter of mere minutes. built in analytics enables you to see how the overall performances of your leadpage or leadbox are doing. you will be able to view everything from who visited your page and when, to graphs explaining how different assets are trending over a given time period. money back guarantee if for whatever reason you were not happy with leadpages, you would be able to get a full refund without any questions asked of you. the only requirement for that to happen is you would have to cancel your account within 30 days from purchase. many people claim to be very happy with leadpages, however, saying things along the lines of the products are the best and most effective they have ever used. visit leadpages.net thrive content builder if you use the wordpress platform for your blogging and internet marketing, you know how old and boring the themes and templates can quickly become. after all, you want eye-catching themes that convert visitors into paying customers or email subscribers. thrive content builder, a plug-in for wordpress designed by thrive themes, can be of valuable service to your internet marketing efforts. the main focus of the designers of thrive content builder was to increase conversions.it utilizes a drag and drop interface that allows you to view how your content will look as you compose it. create high conversion landing pages content builder gives you the creative freedom to customize the look of your page layout without losing focus on your theme direction. the more than thirty templates that are available to choose from are designed in systematic groups. they work together in a logical sequence and contain the same kind of language designed to deliver optimal conversion results. this adds to the consistency of the theme you’ve chosen, providing you with an easier way to create a brand your customers will identify you by. the web pages you create with thrive content builder takes your visitors all the way through the conversion process; from signup, to purchasing, all the way to downloading and beyond. customization of templates if you find a template you like, but are not quite satisfied with the complete look of it, there are customization options available. everything from large to small details can be customized to suit your taste, so you are never stuck with a design created by the thrive themes team. these customization capabilities include, but are not limited to: choosing your own style of fonts. translating text into a different language. using your own images. changing the background color. changing the range of the content area. changing the color of links, buttons and text. removing any part of the landing page you don’t like these are just examples of the creative freedoms that content builder provides you with so you never feel inadequate while you build your sales pages, landing pages or squeeze pages. responsive web design thrive content builder is fully responsive web design (rwd) oriented. this means that your web pages will look great whether they are viewed on a desktop, laptop, tablet or smartphone. you don’t have to spend extra money or time converting it to appear the right way on different devices. pros: build landing pages with little to no tech knowledge. templates can be fully customized. build your own templates. build responsive web pages. turn pages and posts into landing pages quickly. cons: only works smoothly and efficiently when you are producing new content. visit the thrive website the following two tabs change content below. bio latest posts jamie my name is jamie spencer and i have spent the past 5 years building money making blogs. after growing tired of the 9-5, commuting and never seeing my family i decided that i wanted to make some changes and launched my first blog. since then i have launched lots of successful niche blogs and after selling my survivalist blog i decided to teach other people how to do the same. latest posts by jamie (see all) interview – cameron james from anymail finder - march 26, 2020 the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews - march 25, 2020 how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old - march 19, 2020 categories wordpress post navigation adobe audition cc keyboard shortcuts 2015 – cheat sheet html 5 cheat sheet – including free pdf download leave a comment cancel reply commentname email save my name and email in this browser for the next time i comment. wp theme detector top plugins best affiliate wordpress plugins best wordpress membership plugins best social sharing plugins for wordpress best wordpress plugins for business websites best related posts plugins for wordpress best wordpress landing page plugins to boost conversions wordpress articles best affiliate wordpress plugins for 2020 best wordpress membership plugins for 2020 99 wordpress stats you have to see to believe – 2020 best month to month web hosting deals – 2020 how to register a domain name: everything you need to know the ultimate guide to the amazon associates program – 2020 how to add a horizontal line to a wordpress post or page how to add a contact form to your wordpress website or blog how to speed up wordpress 2020 wordpress website checklist for launching a new website categories amazon fba blog traffic blogging business cheat sheets content marketing design tips email marketing graphic design interviews make money online marketing photography questions social tech buying guides web development website cms wordpress latest posts interview – cameron james from anymail finder the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old how to write a blog post – a guide for new & experienced bloggers best social media management tools 2020 best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub