wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 3 best affiliate tracking and management software for wordpress 3 best affiliate tracking and management software for wordpress last updated on july 3rd, 2014 by editorial staff 55 shares share tweet share pin affiliate marketing is a proven way to increase awareness about your business and products. this is why most large businesses like amazon, ebay, hilton, etc have made it an integral part of their marketing strategy. with the growth of ecommerce sites powered by wordpress, several of our users have asked for our recommendations on the best affiliate tracking softwares. in this article, we will compare the 3 best affiliate tracking and management software for wordpress and highlight their pros and cons. why add an affiliate program to your business? affiliate programs allows you to instantly build a sales army and increase your exposure. the best part about it is that you only pay affiliates when they make a sale. in other words, affiliates are sales guys who work without a base salary and only get compensated when they make a sale. if you’re thinking of adding an affiliate program to your wordpress ecommerce store, then you’re in the right place. below are the best affiliate management solutions for wordpress. 1. shareasale shareasale is one of the most popular affiliate network on the web. it offers easy to implement affiliate management solutions with access to its vast network of affiliate marketers. they have been in business for 13 years and have faciliated over 8 million merchant/affiliate relationships. we use shareasale for our family of products such as optinmonster. pros the software is hosted on shareasale server so you don’t need to worry about managing or updating it. shareasale takes care of tracking and sending payments to each affiliate which is a big time saver you get access to the large network of affiliate marketers on shareasale. no monthly recurring fee, and you only pay a small percentage when an affiliate makes a sale. some other features of shareasale are real time tracking, segmentation of top performers, connecting multiple sites into one account. cons terrible user interface – you do get used to of it, but at first sight it’s not pretty. there is a one-time setup fee of $550 $25 monthly minimum must be met after 120 day grace period. we have never had issue meeting this after the 120 day grace period. in our experience as a merchant, shareasale has been awesome. the amount of time it saves us by automatically paying out affiliates and managing/tracking affiliate sales properly, it’s totally worth the one-time setup fee. there are shareasale integrations available for both woocommerce and easydigitaldownloads. 2. affiliatewp affiliatewp is an affiliate tracking and management software that is actually built as a wordpress plugin. it is developed by pippin williamson and andrew munro, the folks behind easy digital downloads. it beats other solutions in terms of cost-effectiveness and the control it offers over your affiliate program. pros one-time purchase entitles you for a year of support and updates. license plans start from $49. you run your own affiliate program on your own site and build your own network. complete integration with easy digital downloads, woocommerce, ithemes exchange, and other popular wordpress ecommerce plugins. real time reporting for you and your affiliates. see your top performing affiliates and build lasting partnerships without paying hefty fees. cons you manage everything including plugin updates, ensure tracking is done properly, etc. you have to handle payouts every month manually. currently there is no mass pay option either, so you will be paying each person individually although that addon is “coming soon”. no third-party experts tracking affiliate fraud. you don’t have access to an existing network of affiliates, which means you will have to bring affiliates to sign up for your program. affiliatewp is a new system in the market and is being used by other wordpress plugin developers to sell their products. this is a great solution for those who’re looking to build a small group of hand-picked affiliates. the best part about affiliatewp is the cost because it’s a one-time fee compared to the other two options in this article. 3. impact radius impact radius offers an affiliate marketing solution where you pay only for the affiliates you work with and not the network fees. this significantly reduces the cost as you pay only for the platform and the number of affiliates you work with. impactradius is started by the co-founders of commission junction. pros provides better analytics and insights into your marketing campaign. you see exactly who is bringing you more sales and develop strategic partnerships accordingly. great user-interface other features include mobile tracking, seo friendly urls, coupon tracking, integration with salesforce and other crm platforms. cons monthly recurring fee, but you don’t pay the network fee for each affiliate that you bring which can be a perk for larger programs a smaller network of affiliate marketers. conclusion: you need to choose a solution based on your own budget and requirements. if you can pay the one time setup fee, then shareasale is the way to go. you will be joining a network of thousands of affiliate marketers, which will make it easier for you to get started. affiliatewp is the least expensive solution, but you pay for that with time spent on updating the plugin and managing individual affiliate payouts every month. impact radius offers monthly subscription plans based on the affiliates you work with. they also offer better insights and tracking than others. it’s a great solution for businesses that pay a larger payout because you avoid the network fees on each transaction. we hope this article helped you find the best affiliate tracking software for your wordpress site. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and google+. 55 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 1 commentleave a reply jamiesbw says: jul 6, 2014 at 3:42 pm is there an affiliate program with little or no setup fees that works on the basis of commission for sales made. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) aweber coupon get 100% off for your first month with aweber. start your first month for free. designevo coupon get 25% off on designevo premium logo making service. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.