home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership 3 challenges in managing change michael and megan 00:32:38 download transcript has this ever happened to you? you’re excited about a new project or initiative, and you can’t wait to share it with your team. but when you do, you see nothing but crossed arms and blank stares. they’re not hostile. but they’re not sharing your enthusiasm either. what gives? based on our experience in a number of businesses—large and small—we’ve learned some things about introducing change. there are three distinct challenges you must overcome to enroll your team in the future. in this episode, we’ll show you what they are, and how to blow past them. you’ll go from wondering if you’re really on the right track to feeling confident and empowered about the future. in this episode you will— understand why change is necessary for any growing business. learn the top three things people fear when encountering change. find out the two (competing) needs that all of your team members have. gain a powerful strategy for rolling out change in an organization. see the very best way to handle pushback on change proposals. be empowered to introduce change in a way that brings acceptance and builds momentum. resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe the vision driven leader amy porterfield podcast pingboard posted on tuesday, march 10, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed