home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership 3 essentials for executive moms michael and megan 00:37:51 download transcript as a leader, you thrive on the challenges of running your business. but if you also happen to be a wife and a mom, you feel pulled in another direction. it seems that whenever you’re at work, you’re thinking at home. and when you’re home, you don’t feel fully present either. you may wonder why you can’t seem to get it together, like so many “super moms.” here’s the truth: super mom is a fictional creature. every successful leader who is also a mom must navigate the challenges of this unique role. and you can! we’ll show you how to quit trying to “do it all” and get clarity on the things that really matter to you. when you do, the weight of those unrealistic expectations will fall away. you’ll find be super-focused when at work, and fully present at home. here’s a preview of this episode. why this topic is valuable for men too, also for women who are not moms. [0:40] why being a professional mom is different from being a professional dad. [3:09] the most dangerous myth that working moms struggle with. [4:23] the forces that shape our expectations for ourselves as women. [7:34] why you have to get clear and specific about what a “win” looks like at home. [8:32] the key question that will lead you to freedom as a working parent. [9:08] why success may look different in your family than in another’s. [10:30] the killer emotion that derails many working moms. [11:11] a simple exercise that helps you stop pumping the ambition brake. [11:30] the single best way to navigate this issue with your spouse. [19:48] what is “co-parenting” and how is it different from many think? [20:16] questions spouses can use to help set family priorities. [22:10] why balance matters more than fairness in managing your home. [23:02] one set of preconceived notions you should set aside when negotiating agreements with your spouse. [23:17] why self-care is vital—but elusive—for working moms. [28:35] tips for designing your own self-care regimen. [30:12] the one gift you must give yourself as a professional mom. [34:03] after you listen to this episode, try this. ask yourself the question, “what do i want most in my home and family life?” if you are married, include your spouse in that discussion. it’s your first step in shedding unrealistic expectations and creating a “win” at life. thanks for the love! thank you to “scoop miser” who left these comments about the podcast on itunes. “i can’t recommend this podcast enough. informative, insightful, entertaining and applicable to anyone looking to improve in all facets of life. i look forward to the new episode like a kid on christmas eve waiting for santa. thanks, larry, megan, and michael.” you’re welcome, scoop. and thanks for the good words, and thanks to all of you who have left a rating or review of the podcast. that helps so much to get the word out. if you haven’t done so, you can rate the program right now. if you’re not sure how to do that, check out this simple tutorial. we would love to hear your thoughts. resources from this episode “how to have two successful careers in one happy home” episode of lead to win fair play by eve rodsky free to focus by michael hyatt full focus planner resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe “how to have two successful careers in one happy home” fair play by eve rodsky free to focus by michael hyatt full focus planner posted on tuesday, january 14, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed