home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer freelancing by mary jaksch "think and grow rich" [you wish], "manifest your dreams," [yeah, right]. have you ever read books or articles with similar topics and dismissed them as nonsense? i have. but… i was in for a surprise. a few weeks ago i thought it might be interesting to do some freelancing in the future. little did i know that this thought was like putting up a sign in the sky. just a month later, i became an accidental freelancer. i was asked to translate some extended german texts and write some non-fiction stories in english for a large magazine. the pressure was on to complete the next edition within ten days. i had to work in an office with people around me who were getting more and more uptight the closer we got to the printing deadline. i learned three critical lessons doing this gig. the 3 lessons i learned 1. use this software to write faster as a freelancer, you are paid either by the word count or by the hour. in my case, i got paid by the hour. i hunted around for a perfect time tracking app and found clockify. the basic app is free but you can pay for more complex functions. it was the first time i used a time-tracking app, and it was a unique experience. as soon as i pressed 'start,' i was seized with a sense of urgency. i knew i had to produce something by the end of the day, and the tracker galvanized me into thinking faster and writing chop-chop. now that i have completed this gig and have returned to writing blog posts or working on my new book, i am using a time- tracker as well to keep myself focussed. 2. discover your best productivity rhythm as i had to write throughout the day, i noticed that i work best in 30-minute bursts until my focus weakens. if i then take a 5-minutes break and walk around or do some exercises, i can quickly recharge my creative batteries. it seems that my personal rhythm is close to the pomodoro technique which recommends working in 25-minute blocks with 5-minute pauses. what is your best productivity rhythm? if you're not sure, download a free pomodoro app for android or iphone and see how this particular rhythm suits you. want to find out how to make your writing pay the bills? yes! show me how! 3. how to write an article fast i usually take my time when writing a blog post. first, i do some research and make some notes. then i put together some thoughts i want to cover. when i then start putting the article together, i often feel overwhelmed by the details my research has unearthed and it can take me a long time to get some sort of order into the chaos of thoughts and words. when you're working in an high pressure situation, like i did during my stint of a freelancer, time is of the essence. other people, like the designers were waiting for my results while my time tracker ticked on inexorably. i was forced to find a way to throw something onto the page in short order. my usual mode of writing didn't work so i started creating a skeleton of each piece before starting to write in detail. the most important step of creating a skeleton is to define the natural order of your piece. create a listicle with a subject order if you want to write a post with a list order (like this one), determine how many different points you want to cover and then put a heading to each point. you can then fill in subheadings and explanatory text for each point later on. create a story with a temporal order if you write a post with a story, you need to follow the temporal oder. let me explain. as a freelancer, i had to write a story about a guy who is cycling around the world on a home-made bamboo bike. there were a raft of subtopics in this story: the idea behind the trip, the difficulties of the trip, building the bike, what the guy learnt from his tour, what challenges he faced on the tour, and so on. if you are working with story, list all these subtopic on the page as individual headings. then take a good look at your list and determine the temporal order. for example, building the bike needs to come way before the subtopic, what the guy learnt from his tour, agreed? shuffle your mini-headings around until you have a logical order. then write a short paragraph under each of the headings. once your piece is close to complete, consider how you want to start it. sweep in, don't creep in you need to grab the reader straight away. look for a powerful scene to start your piece. sometimes this is difficult to find. for example, when i researched the guy with a bamboo bike, all i could find were instagram entries that read like these ones: "i found a good place to pitch the tent on the hill." "then i rode on." boring. i dug deeper and found a dramatic moment to start the article: "we'll have to saw through the frame of your bamboo bike to see if you are carrying drugs." the indian border officials frowned. for a moment, the cyclist considered turning back. here on the border with india, his dream of riding around the world seemed to be in jeopardy. if you want to use a story, look for a bit with some pep. zoom in to the interesting episode, then zoom out to give the context. my overall experience of doing a freelancing gig? i enjoyed it. what i learnt was that i can be much more productive if i'm writing against the clock. since then, i've been using clockify to track my productivity and stay on track. it has galvanize me into writing faster. i've learned to respect my productivity rhythm and am now working with a timing app to ensure i stay totally focused for at least twenty-five minutes at a time. the most important lesson was to learn how to throw a post onto the page without getting bogged down. creating a skeleton of each post before starting to write has made me more creative. it seems that when you follow a pattern of creation, your internal critic shuts up. but what about writing your own pieces after work? i was keen to see if i could work hard each day and still write my own stuff in the evenings. after all, this is the problem that many aspiring writers face. when you feel tired, it can be challenging to start working on your articles or stories. strangely enough, i felt the day's stress melt away when i started writing for fun after a full day of writing in the office. writing can be therapeutic. it's a pick-me-up if you allow your words to flow onto the page. remember, your writing doesn't have to be 'good.' just write without internal pressure when you're tired so that you enjoy these creative moments. have you ever worked as a freelancer? what was your experience? a quick heads-up... many of our readers implore us for help and support on their journey as a writer. to help budding writers and authors be successful, we are in the process of creating something very exiting: the writetodone university. this is a major mission and we hope to get most of the training opportunities in the writetodone university set up for you this year. in the meantime you can grab my new course : make your writing pay the bills: become a smart freelancer tweet pin share related posts how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer by vartika kashyap a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ by kayla matthews about the author mary jaksch mary jaksch is best known for her exceptional training for writers at writetodone.com and for her cutting-edge book, youthful aging secrets. in her “spare” time, mary is also the brains behind goodlifezen.com, a zen master, a mother, and a 5th degree black belt. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option visualize, organize, and write anything faster and easier than ever before! writer's blocks is simple, powerful writing software that makes your writing faster, easier and smarter. grab the fully-functional free trial of writer's blocks here make real money from your blogging – today, not in three year’s time the blogger's guides - complete four pack grab your guides here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions >