home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership 3 ways to inspire your team michael and megan 00:24:38 download transcript as a leader, you have a vision for the future. it’s clear. it’s practical. and you know it will make a huge impact. there’s just one problem: nobody’s buying it. when you communicate your vision, all you get are shrugs and blank stares. how frustrating! based on our decades of experience and that of thousands of our coaching clients, we’ve learned exactly how to get people excited about your vision. you must make it inspiring. and we can show you how. weave these four motivational keys into your vision statement, and it will be more than just clear or practical. it will motivate your team to jump on board and generate instant momentum toward your future. in this episode, you will discover— the driving force behind nearly every aspect of building a successful organization. how to ask the right questions so you can create the impact you desire. the value of considering what “isn’t” and knowing what to do with that realization. why exponential change is better than incremental change. the one thing you need to set the stage for creating great new products. what you can expect with business-as-usual thinking—and how to avoid it. how to tell when you’ve crossed the line from risky to delusional. resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe the vision driven leader posted on tuesday, march 17, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed