editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. news latest 37 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 38 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 41 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime 3.28 million people file jobless claims, smashing previous record amid covid-19 outbreak job seekers look over job opening fliers at the worksource exhibit on may 14, 2009 in pasadena, california. (photo by david mcnew/getty images) by cristina cabrera | march 26, 2020 8:40 a.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. the labor department announced on thursday morning that a record 3.28 million jobless claims were filed this past week as covid-19 rapidly spreads across the nation. the jaw-dropping figure eclipses the previous weekly jobless claim record of 695,000 in october 1982. the number of unemployment claims the week ending on march 21 skyrocketed by over 3,000,000 from the previous week ending on march 14, which saw 282,000 claims. this chart shows just how massive the spike in weekly claims was, per heidi shierholz, the director of policy at the economic policy institute: brace yourself. i have been a labor economist for a very long time and have never seen anything like this. here are last week’s initial unemployment insurance (ui) claims. (1/n) pic.twitter.com/fwhljqf9ww — heidi shierholz (@hshierholz) march 26, 2020 the surge in jobless claims came amid the white house’s 15-day guidelines, which began on march 16, advising people to stay home unless they work for health care facilities, grocery stores, pharmacies, and other industries deemed essential during the crisis. the guidelines were crafted by the centers for disease control and prevention. additionally, new york, california, and several other states have ordered a complete shutdown of all non-essential businesses as a social distancing measure to prevent further spread of the coronavirus. treasury secretary steven mnuchin told cnbc thursday morning that the jobless figures were “not relevant” at the moment, because there are direct payments going out to americans soon. mnuchin on jobless claims numbers: "i just think these numbers right now are not relevant, and you know, whether they’re bigger or smaller in the short term." pic.twitter.com/h9yo0ymeax — talking points memo (@tpm) march 26, 2020 president donald trump has been itching for a rollback of social distancing measures and to encourage americans to go back to work once the 15-day period ends, claiming that doing so would boost the tanking economy. trump said earlier this week that he wants the workforce to be “open” by easter, which falls on april 12. several other republicans have agreed with trump’s push for an end to social distancing despite the risks, with texas lt. gov. dan patrick (r) going so far as to argue that the elderly, who are most the most likely to die from the illness, ought to sacrifice their lives for the economy. this story will be updated. cristina cabrera (@crismcabrera) is a newswriter at tpm based in new york. she previously worked for vocativ, usa today and ny1 news. have a tip? send it here! includes: covid-19employmentunemployment more in news 37 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 38 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 41 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime comments advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy