home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » collection » 30 amazing diy decorative mirrors 30 amazing diy decorative mirrors september 15, 2013 colleen jorgensen 26 comments 5.1kshares facebook twitter pinterest here are 30 amazing diy decorative mirrors to suit any taste or style (not to mention budget.) a mirror is a great asset when decorating a home. they’re functional and placed strategically they can visually enlarge a space. decorative mirrors do double duty as beautiful pieces of art. starburst/sunburst mirrors no matter which celestial body you choose to call them, these trendy mirrors add a sparkle to any wall. 1. wood shim starburst mirror by infarrantly creative beckie used wood shims to create this beauty at a fraction of the cost of similar mirrors sold in stores 2. diy sunburst mirror at k sarah designs another lovely mirror similar to the harleston wall mirror from target created again with wood shims, but a completely different look. 3. diy sunburst mirror at catie’s corner catie started with a round mirror and added over 100 kabob skewers to create a silver sunburst. target’s metal sunburst mirror has a similar look. 4. lighted starburst mirror at diy show off echoing my thought that you can’t have too much bling at christmas, roeshel made a lighted starburst mirror tree topper. thinking outside the box frames this next group of mirrors shows that, with a little creativity, all kinds of materials make unique and beautiful frames. 5. pvc pipe mirror at thrifty and chic who would ever imagine that pvc pipe would make such fabulous contemporary mirror frames? 6. angel food cake pan mirror at design share on your next thrift store visit, you might want to check out the kitchen section. this fluted pan makes a fabulous mirror frame that is both vintage and modern. 7. chrysanthemum mirror by addicted2decorating imagine waking up one day and thinking, “i’m gonna grab a bunch of plastic spoons and make a pretty chrysanthemum mirror.” no, not me either. we don’t have to because kristi already did and she has a fabulous diy tutorial to make your own. target sells a similar mirror here. 8. wood rounds mirror by that’s my letter jaime brings a touch of nature into any room with wood rounds of varied diameters. stunning! 9. wood disk mirror by rachel bishop designs as one of rachel’s readers said about this mirror, “it’s a great balance between geometric and organic.” 10.yellow pencil mirror by mosaicworks you’ll have to look closely to see that this stunning burst of yellow is created with pencils. 11. stars & stripes pencil mirror at mosaicworks karen didn’t stop with yellow pencils, thankfully, and used red, white and blue for a patriotic work of art. 12. wood ruler mirror by mosaicworks “bigger is better, especially with mirrors,” says the gifted artist, karen. she’s not kidding either. this wood ruler mirror measures close to 7 feet tall! 13. color wheel mirror by mosaicworks a recent guest here at pretty handy girl, this collection of mirrors wouldn’t be complete without including this incredible mosaic mirror. it’s all in the details you can add your own style or flair to a mirror frame as these talented diyers did. 14. mosaic tile mirror at sand and sisal soft in tone, these tiny mosaic squares echo the tranquility of sand and surf. 15. zebra mirror at just a girl or maybe you prefer something more wild? with the contrasting black and white zebra print, this mirror still offers a classic effect. 16. rope mirror at the shabby creek cottage rope spiraled around a mirror provides organic texture and interest. 17. cool diy framed mirror by sawdust girl sandra built a frame around a standard builder’s mirror and then added some wood strips for detail. did you know she offers diy coaching for building projects? 18. $15 diy mirror by shanty2chic you’d never guess that ashley built this mirror in about an hour for only $15? so shanty and chic. 19. dressed up bathroom mirror at not just a housewife stacy shows how to add some pizazz to a medicine cabinet mirror with a custom built frame. 20. diy unique turquoise mirror at all things thrifty would you ever imagine that this gorgeous turquoise mirror was made by hand? from concept to completion, brooke shows all of the steps. 21. diy rope mirror by the happy homebodies jordan used a couple rolls of polished hemp to give her thrift store mirror a warm and rustic look. 22. diy wood shim mirror by house of hepworths allison was inspired by a mirror on pinterest and the built this huge wood shim mirror with a wonderful rustic quality. 23. french style trumeau mirror at southern revivals this lovely trumeau mirror was crafted completely by hand using found objects and wood accents. 24. styrofoam convex mirror at diy show off roeshel made these convex mirrors out of styrofoam wreaths. amazing! and using convex mirrors offers an unexpected stylish twist. alter or create mirrors other options for creating decorative mirrors are to create your own or alter an existing mirror. 25. how to alter a mirror by songbird marianne removed part of the mirror’s backing to create peek-a-boo spots with glimpses of an old fifties fashion magazine. be still my heart, i love this understated style. 26. make an outdoor mirror at home stories a2z beth actually made her own mirror, hung it on the fence and now it reflects her lovely garden. so clever! 27. monogrammed mirror at diy show off this monogrammed mirror is just stunning. so simple, yet what visual impact it creates. 28. overscale hand-antiqued mirror at salvage savvy this large antiqued mirror is actually comprised of 12″ square mirror tiles. what a statement it creates! 29. spraypainted doily lace mirror by paper & stitch have you noticed the comeback that lace is making? brittni created a lovely delicate ‘frame’ by using a doily as a stencil. 30. vintage window mirror by diy show off this vintage mirror began as an old window. what a fantastic way to repurpose! have you diy’d a mirror? or do you want to? what do you have in mind? target has a 24″ round mirror and a frameless door mirror that will help you get started on your next diy mirror projects. (affiliate link) *please respect each diy blogger and their creative efforts by pinning directly from their blogs. so you like decorative mirrors? how about windows? here are 10 ways to use old windows! – learn more about colleen- 5.1kshares facebook twitter pinterest you might also like: collection, decor, decorating, mirrored glass, popular comments micheal says august 13, 2016 at 7:50 pm awesome sunburst mirrors!! thanks for the great round-up!! i love them all so much!! reply missy says january 14, 2017 at 3:56 pm the rope mirror diy looks so simple and cute, it’s genius! i haven’t done any mirror diys, but have been able to thrift a handful for under $15 and turned them into anthro-inspired wall of mirrors. you can check it out here: http://voyageofvintage.com/vintage-mirror-wall-ideas/ =] reply brandon marshall says september 7, 2017 at 6:09 pm i love decorating with mirrors it can be a really life saver if you want to decorate small space. thanks for sharing those great ideas. reply novie says september 19, 2017 at 7:33 pm decorative mirrors can be crazy expensive. diy-ing it can cut down the cost to a mere fraction plus it’s a great experience too. thanks for sharing your ideas. – novie reply read more comments: « 1 2 leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok