hair romance hair blog - hair tutorials - curly hairstyles and more home tutorials curly hair curly hair guide braids guide shop about terms of use privacy policy disclosure policy contact 30 buns in 30 days ebook a bun doesn’t have to be boring. 30 buns in 30 days will teach you over 30 different bun hairstyles for all occasions. save money on salon upstyles and learn over 30 new hairstyles. inside you’ll find over 75 pages of hair-spiration including: quick and easy styling tips to take your bun from ordinary to extraordinary hairstyles you can do in 5 minutes or less 30 days of hairstyle tutorials plus four bonus tutorials variations for fine hair and long hair for every bun hairstyle trouble-shooting guide product tips and tricks you can do these styles in your own hair with easy-to-follow picture tutorials and clear written instructions. these unique tutorials were created by christina butcher, the new york times’ bestselling author and hair behind the top hair blog, hair romance. with so many easy bun styles to choose from, you’ll never have a bad hair day again! 30 buns in 30 days hairstyle e-book what readers are saying: “i found your website 1 week ago and loved it. now, i just bought my copy of your ebook – it’s great! my hair is neither sleek, nor curly, but kind of crazy wavy. with your tips and tutorials i finally managed to tame them. thank you so much! lots of love from the other side of the world!” jana “my three girls are absolutely having a ball picking their hairstyles… it’s not just doing their hair, it’s spending time with them, not nagging them to do chores or homework, it’s a one-on-one, mummy-daughter, special time. i know they love it as it’s time i’m completely devoted to them!” jennie “i used this hairstyle for my prom and everyone loved my hair!!!! thanks for the easy steps and super great idea!” britt b. take a peek inside… get it now learn all these styles and more… get it now get ready to love your hair! click here to get your copy of the 30 buns in 30 days ebook now. hair romance all information copyright hair romance™ 2010-2020. hair romance is a registered trademark. quick links home about 30 days of curly hairstyles 30 hairstyles in 30 days 30 braids in 30 days 30 buns in 30 days advertise contact contact email: thehair[at]hairromance[dot]com mail: po box 1288, darlinghurst nsw 1300 twitter: @hairromance instagram: @hairromance copyright christina butcher 2020