skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 30 best resume wordpress themes 2020 for vcard and personal portfolio 30 best resume wordpress themes 2020 for vcard and personal portfolio march 25, 2020 aigars theme collections 18 comments a hand-picked list of the best wordpress resume themes designed to showcase your resume/cv, vcard and portfolio. these are premium themes with premium design, quality, and functionality. if it can’t be found on google, it doesn’t exist. if you can be found on google it means you will never get headhunted and offered a better job. today it is a must to create your own online resume. linkedin might be enough for resume, however, you still need your own portfolio to showcase your work. below you will find the best of the best resume wordpress themes designed for easy setup and administration. most of these themes have unlimited color variations or at least several color schemes for you to choose from. i guess you will have a hard time to choose one theme that you want to use because all of them are awesome. the best resume wordpress themes without further hesitations let’s have a look at the best resume wordpress themes recommended by experts. uncode uncode is a clean and minimal resume wordpress theme which is easy to setup, customize and use. in addition, users who purchase uncode will be able to enjoy some of the best premium plugins on the market, free of charge. you can save a total of $86, due to the inclusion of ilightbox, slider revolution and layer slider. each of these add-ons can expand your vcard site’s capabilities, resulting in a superior browsing and customization experience. for new users, a detailed documentation source was added. it explains every feature in detail, offering to turn you into an overnight expert. with this theme, every vcard page will manage to capture the attention of employers. thanks to the inclusion of drag and drop technology, you will be able to craft astounding layouts with ease. there is no need for advanced programming knowledge, given that uncode is extremely user-friendly. for more information, be sure to access the live preview. more info / download demo divi divi is a multi-functional resume wordpress theme that you can hammer out entirely different pages without one knowing you are still using the same theme. it is even altogether correct to say that divi is a vcard wordpress theme. due to its versatility, high adaptability and extendability, divi happens to be ideal for any project. look on further and start forging your online resume now. instead of figuring out how to perform certain tasks, with divi, you can do it all yourself. with the practical page builder, you can modify and alter, as well as build new layouts, yourself with ease. different web elements, intuitive and powerful theme options panel, translatable, rtl-ready, there is truly nothing that divi misses. create your thing and express your professionalism in a novel way. more info / download demo jevelin jevelin is one such resume wordpress theme that you can call it pretty much whatever you want. not only that, with this multi-purpose tool, you can craft any type of website your heart desires. if you are after setting yourself up a vcard, jevelin is one fine site canvas that will help you realize it. out of the box, jevelin comes with several demos that are all unique and modern, perfect to serve the modern mobile web user. but this is just the beginning to this wordpress theme behemoth. while you can use each demo exactly as you see it in live preview, you can also improve and enhance it however you fancy. that said, make sure it follows your personal brand, your skills, experience and all the rest that comes along to the t. what’s super cool about jevelin is the fact that you need to be no coder to get things moving. thanks to the convenient drag and drop page builder, you can even create custom layouts that best resonate with you and your online portfolio and resume. more info / download demo kalium kalium is a modern and classy wordpress resume and portfolio theme. the tool is built around the incredible wpbakery page builder and its intuitive drag and drop interface. combined with the premium revolution slider and layerslider, crafting gorgeous websites is a breezy task with kalium. a generous collection of demo websites makes initial setup painless and uncomplicated, while portfolio layout and style configuration capabilities, along with a whopping 30 portfolio templates for you to pick from, make kalium a solid ally to all professionals trying to get their work noticed by employers or clients, with a wealth of customizable features and functions to your spotlight fits your work’s tone and style just right. a powerful and cutting edge vcard templates make sharing your professional resume a simple matter, with functional download and social sharing features so the word spreads all the quicker to the right people. try kalium now! more info / download demo fatmoon fatmoon is a mobile-friendly wordpress creative personal resume theme. with 41 general and specific conceptual demo websites, you’ll always find the right fit for your project, regardless of its nature or tone. professionals love using fatmoon to give a creative, meaningful presentation to their resume websites, cv websites, online portfolios and similar, related projects. fatmoon knows just how to make your content pop, and when your content is your professional output, clients and employers are bound to appreciate your work displayed over enthralling parallax hardware-powered backgrounds and html5-powered video backgrounds, on top of fatmoon’s professionally composed layouts, image gallery and portfolio templates, which you can customize to your heart’s content within instants through the premium drag and drop wpbakery page builder plugin, as well as spruce up with the slider revolution premium slider plugin. get the word out there on your feats, with fatmoon! more info / download demo bateaux bateaux is a colorful and youthful resume wordpress theme for any onlye portfolio or vcard. a perfect theme for everyone who need to efficiently put out a professional quality website in a short time-frame and with deep-seated functionality. bateaux is loved by professionals the world over, who find in bateaux a strong ally in presenting their professional resumes to potential customers or employers within massive online audiences, through the intuitive blueprint drag and drop page builder. plentiful social media integration features and widgets are present within bateaux for your convenience and thoroughly documented as well. with bateaux by your side, you’ll always make the right first impression coming in through the door. try bateaux now! more info / download demo brando brando is a professional and mobile friendly single page resume wordpress theme. packed with page templates and homepage demo websites for a myriad of specific and general purposes, though it shines particularly brightly when deployed as a professional vcard website theme. brando’s sleek single page presentation and honed design aesthetic make it a perfect candidate for professionals to easily introduce themselves to the world and potential clients or employers in a serious, clean-cut, professional spotlight that makes a lasting impression. with extensive portfolio capabilities under the hood, brando can furnish your works and accomplishments with an enticing framework for showcasing them to your audience, with multiple navigational styles, animations, transitions and opportunities for fine-tuning and branding. market yourself effectively with brando’s potent seo enhancements, and you’ll get noticed in no time at all. more info / download demo glitche glitche is a fantastic and one of the best vcard wordpress themes with a vast number of different options and possibilities for your forthcoming website. give yourself a chance to present yourself on the web in the best possible light and increase your potential once and for all. if you are a job seeker or a freelancer, in fact, whoever is looking for new opportunities should not miss a solid internet presence. you can have one up and ready to go live in a snap with glitche. from responsive and retina-ready web design and framed layout to skillbars with percentage, resume timeline and a stunning and categorized portfolio grid, this and loads more is what you are treated to with glitche. on top of that, glitche is optimized for incredible performance and creates a unique experience for all your vcard and online resume visitors. hook them with enticing and creative webspace and score new deals on a regular. more info / download demo incubator incubator is a modern and seamless wordpress freelancer resume theme. making use of both user-friendly visual interfaces for layout and element customization and edition, as well as an incredibly potent and robust admin back-end framework based on the incredible redux framework, incubator gives you all the power of the latest web development technologies with none of the hassle. professionals love incubator because it allows them to effortlessly create their own personal digital portfolios to showcase their previous work or finest accomplishments, it integrates numerous necessary modern features such as social media sharing capabilities with custom buttons and animations, amazing smooth scrolling owing to hardware-powered parallax technology, complete native mobile-friendliness and cross-compatibility powered by bootstrap, and far more under the hood. vcard websites benefit from incubator’s digital download features as well as convenient demo websites. try incubator today! more info / download demo cvio if you are in the process of searching for the best vcard wordpress theme, you came to the right place. with the powerful and flexible tool, like cvio, you can make some noise online in close to no time. all the page layouts, elements and an array of features are at your disposal, ready and set to put them into practice. not just that, you get a collection of eight homes, ten color schemes and both a dark and a light mode. with cvio, you can literally build a page within minutes. moreover, the collection of amenities is vast, making sure everyone gets the most out of the tool. cvio also follows all the latest trends and regulations, ensuring a smooth operation all the time. your page will work on mobile devices and popular web browsers without a hitch. you can also translate the theme and enjoy professional support from a team of experts. more info / download demo ryan to create a personal online resume to impress new potential clients and employers, ryan is the vcard wordpress theme to consider. it comes with four attention-grabbing and interest sparking demos, as well as dark or light looks. pick accordingly and start customizing the sample of choice with your content and your style ideas. on the other hand, you can utilize the web design exactly as is, add your information and you are done sooner rather than later. but do add your signature touch to it to make it more special and intriguing. ryan follows all the latest trends and technologies, like rtl support, mobile-readiness, cross-browser compatibility and fast loading speed. you can also start a blog, translate your resume page to any language you want and benefit from the 24/7 customer support – never feel lost. however, the straightforwardness of ryan will do the trick, getting you online without the additional help. more info / download demo leadengine leadengine is an intuitive, creative and responsive wordpress multipurpose resume theme. a collection of demos, templates and shortcodes simplify the design process. wpbakery page builder makes layout editing as easy as dragging and dropping. create engaging personal websites and let the world know what you are all about. the personal landing demo showcases your projects and achievements in eloquent presentation. join the personal brand revolution with a sophisticated online calling card. impress clients and employers and capture new business. speak your mind on your blog page and build a following. offer hard numbers, pricing plans, impact charts and more. slick, inobtrusive portfolios let your work do the talking. connect with your clients through social media, custom forms, subscription newsletters and more. take the first step towards your best self, with leadengine! more info / download demo massive dynamic massive dynamic is a mobile-friendly wordpress resume and vcard builder. developed by a dedicated team of professional developers and graphic designers, working together to produce a highly customizable thee for professionals. with a host of helpful, time-saving templates and demo websites readily deployed through one of the simplest and most intuitive import systems on the market today, getting started with massive dynamic is easy and breezy, while fully customizing the look and feel of your website with the live website builder has never been this precise and streamlined. over 70 shortcodes are readily available for your convenience. a beautiful, professionally designed vcard template will let you set up your online curriculum vitae or vcard within minutes, in the most modern presentation possible, with styles and animations to impress the most demanding employers. suit up and get ready to make a solid impression, with massive dynamic! more info / download demo stash are you in need of something different to represent you? now you have it, and it is called stash! this a powerful multipurpose wordpress theme made with a professional orientation. with dozens of homepages and demos to choose from—and even a child theme. made with wpbakery page builder and 260+ blocks as builders. it is a theme that inspires to release each person’s creative side. it comes with full customization for layout and incredible menu options. get your vcard updated with its awesome specialized features! you will get 7 portfolio pages, video backgrounds, photo galleries and more. this responsive tool is user-friendly and pays attention to details. stash can create amazing lists, or upload files of all kinds. typography is no less than google fonts. even animations and slider revolution are integrated! it is definitely a great choice to build a digital cv. stash is appealing in all ways when it comes to visual design; it comes with unlimited colors, font awesome icons and incredible headers to set. play with animations and premium integrated plugins. you get to play with slider revolution and minimal forms as a start. add woocommerce for money-making! get driven to the next professional level! choose stash! more info / download demo norebro norebro is a functional wordpress theme that serves diverse professional purposes. individuals looking to upgrade or launch their careers on the web will be pleased with its perks. not only do you get 30+ niche demos, but you get incredible third-party plugin compatibility to play with. norebro is flexible and easy to craft for anyone not too keen on the online department. it has 90+ shortcodes and uses wpbakery page builder. design elements include portfolios, masonry blogs, smooth scroll and parallax. norebro is ready to make your cv “pop” with slider revolution and woocommerce. mix the power of these two and showcase your work to potential customers online. general display is amazing and retina ready. its responsiveness makes it adapt to screens and browsers with ease. have a look and impress people with norebro! more info / download demo bionick bionick is a modern wordpress personal cv, vcard and portfolio website theme. a deliberate and gorgeous theme, built as an intuitive and lightweight solution for creative professionals. bionick has been developed on a strong html5 foundation, and extensively styled with cutting edge css3 dynamic scripting technologies as well as jaw-dropping beautiful hardware-powered parallax visual effects, all articulated about a flexible and modular bootstrap framework design, rendering bionick naturally developer-friendly as well as responsive to seemingly no end. furthermore it’s easy to use, with a website building processed centered on the wpbakery page builder plugin, with a series of convenient, useful widgets and shortcodes deployed that make sharing your vcard easier than ever before, with expansive options for advanced media content integration and optimal features for showcasing visual content to audiences of any scale. try bionick today! more info / download demo empathy empathy is a sleek wordpress personal resume theme. a soft-spoken theme that has been exclusively designed with the intent of revolutionizing the exchange of professional vcard information through web-based mediums. ambitious in its conception, vcard delivers a streamlined and pure-minded theme that is spectacularly simple to customize through the wordpress live customizer, with hundreds of advanced configuration options and choices at your disposal for crafting sublime, detail-oriented, precise and professional quality vcard websites in a flash, without having to write a single line of code, regardless of your background or previous experience. empathy includes several blog styles with support for all post formats, and a collection of over 67 unique page transition animations to give your website a unique, distinctive feel. flexible handling of image and video comes naturally for empathy, while a host of custom widgets includes flickr, instagram, picasa and more, as well as over 30 popular social media icons and 600 google fonts accessible through the wordpress theme customizer. get some empathy today! more info / download demo hook hook is a multipurpose wordpress theme orientated to creative people and companies. showing your potential or capacities will never get easier than this. it comes with 23 amazing specialized demos! get set up with pre-built varieties of portfolio layouts. hook is packed with a responsive design and more than 700 google fonts and icon54 icon sets to use. it comes with 4 default sidebars and a generator for unlimited creations of your own. it also features 4 custom post types including testimonies and portfolios. hook is responsive, so do not worry about its effectiveness on devices or browsers. every single element on this theme is customizable thanks to the wpbakery page builder! you can add 61 extra elements using this plugin. it even has a custom menu to arrange! hook goes premium with revolution slider, mailchimp and contact form 7 integration. additionally, you can save tons of money on add-ons purchase! for all commercial needs you get helped by woocommerce. make your vcard presentation by making a good portfolio to showcase your work. for questions or problems, you count with detailed documentation and outstanding customer support! hook is the right choice for your professional future! an award nominee and winner! get it now! get hook! more info / download demo kallyas kallyas is a sleek and responsive wordpress creative multipurpose website theme. an intuitive framework for developing engaging websites without any coding at all. business, personal and professional applications are all within its wheelhouse. with tons of demo websites and template pages, there’s nothing kallyas can’t do. ideal for professional users that need a robust solution for online presence. with effective seo tools at your disposal, kallyas can help your website get noticed. and with a ton of interactive and engaging features, visitors are in for a treat. stunning slideshows and gorgeous portfolio showcases also await within kallyas. moreover, convenient vcard templates allow you to easily market your professional capabilities to potential employers. you’ll always make the right impression with the highly customizable visual interface. dozens of portfolio customization settings await within kallyas. with hundreds of possible combinations and over 100 elements to play with. you can drop contact forms, carousels and gallery grids into the action with a few clicks. kallyas is responsive and compatible with all platforms and devices, thanks to bootstrap. the smart loader makes your vcard websites lightweight and efficient. with kallyas at your side, you’ll land the job in no time at all. more info / download demo helion if you are ready to take your potential to new heights, helion is the vcard wordpress theme to take into consideration. it is a modern and creative web design that will assist you at speedily launching a brand new personal website. no matter your creative intentions, helion is the solution that easily adapts to all sorts of different aims and intentions. when pushing your portfolio, skills and services, do it in style with a well-thought-out page. and helion is the tool that will do you well. there are over ten predefined demos at your disposal to take to your benefit out of the box. and by out of the boy, i mean you can use the sample exactly as is. that said, introduce your content and details and your page is all set and ready to roll. on the flip side, helion comes with the elementor page builder that allows everyone to make adjustments, as there will be no coding involved. more info / download demo ikonik to build an online resume or vcard website, ikonik is the wordpress theme that offers all the must-have materials. with three remarkable, contemporary and very catchy demos, you can quickly find the right look for your online presence. thanks to the drag and drop page building technique, you can also enhance the default look of ikonik and make it your way. you can begin the journey with the one click demo data import feature and go from there. ikonik is compatible with gutenberg, mobile devices, retina screens, web browsers and popular plugins. while you have it all in the bundle, you can introduce other elements and components and take your online presence to an entirely different degree. and if you would like to play music, you can do that, too. more info / download demo rezo rezo is a lovely vcard wordpress theme that comes with an enticing dark and light mode. pick accordingly and march toward successfully launching a top-notch page. you can expect only great things to happen once you gain access to rezo. for the most part, the majority of work is already done for you. indeed, there is no need to start from scratch. especially if you dig the default look of rezo, you can experience one of the fastest site realizations ever. what’s more, the convenient drag and drop page building technique is there to unlock complete creative freedom without coding. you also do not need to worry about fast loading speed, seo-readiness and completely responsive layout, rezo sports it all and then some. if you are down for a change, look no further and pick rezo. more info / download demo one page pro one page pro is a multipurpose wordpress theme focused of professional websites settings. it also has 3 great demos from which you will find one dedicated to cv/resume aspects. it uses +100 google fonts and even allows to upload your own fonts on certain formats! one page pro is a hundred percent responsive and adaptable through screens. it offers numerous layouts for blogs, portfolios and galleries reaching more than 30. build things quickly with powerful drag & drop and a little help from ajax. play with the unlimited color skins and its wrapper. one page pro uses premium features like revolution slider, ilightbox, woocommerce, and wmpl. it is also a practical, dedicated thing with a oriented design. moreover, you will find specialized features on demo, like a smooth menu that leads you to aspects of your work. furthermore, layouts become the background with a beautiful and subtle overlay. everything is made for single posts modules and simple scrolling. have fun arranging between a large amount of customized headers and footers. introduce social media icons and links with its discrete top bar! lastly, one page pro is well documented, and includes its own customer support team. it allows up to 8 formats to upload and customize posts! fast and easy thanks to seo! more info / download demo beoreo meet beoreo. with over 18 different, professionally graphically designed homepage demo websites, dozens of header, footer, sidebar, pagination and navigation possibilities, an unobtrusive user interface that puts content first and keeps users focused, and dozens of shortcodes and elements exclusively for your professional convenience and ease in communicating your accomplishments, previous experience and current service fees and packages, among many more, beoreo is the best and last introduction card you will ever require as a professional. with top of the line seo enhancements implemented at every level of code, beoreo is quick to make a dent in your traffic and, ultimately, your overall business. try it now! more info / download demo patrick patrick is a vcard wordpress theme with a single-page design. if you would like to place yourself on top, you better make a difference with a banging online presence. you can now create one with patrick and all the amazingness it comes with. and there is a ton of handy material coming in the patrick bundle which you can put into play as soon as you unbox the package. have in mind, you do not need to be tech-savvy to be able to employ patrick to its full potential. anyone can make good use of patrick, as there is no need to know how to code. some of the features and functions of patrick are dark mode, one-click demo import, unlimited colors, three different background styles and nifty portfolio. the layout also loads super fast, instantly acclimatizes to web browsers and appears at the highest degree across all devices. more info / download demo ultraviolette bringing into being an impactful and business-driven vcard should not be too much of a hassle. in fact, once you gain access to an easy to use wordpress theme, you can do everything without seeking help. ultraviolette is one such tool that will get you moving forward right away. there is enough ready-made sample material available for you to start your own thing in a snap of a finger. just replace the default contents with your details and information and you are ready to roll. that is how simple and quick working with ultraviolette actually is. you will enjoy ultraviolette for all sorts of additional features, too. wpbakery page builder, slider revolution, wpml contact form 7, tons of shortcodes, three different headers, you name it, ultraviolette covers it all and more. ultraviolette comes with documentation and support as well so you always get all your questions and concerns answered without a doubt. more info / download demo agava agava is a nifty, tidy, contemporary and creative wordpress theme for building vcards, online portfolios and other whatnots. in short, if you are interested in creating a personalized web space for your services, you can make things happen with agava. it truly is as simple as that. do you know what makes working with agava even more exciting? indeed, the fact that it will never ask you for any coding and design knowledge. it is the fantastic drag and drop method that turns everyone into an expert web developer immediately. get access to several different jaw-dropping demos and all sorts of other killer features and functions. with agava, it is a guarantee that you can start spreading the word out within minutes. the layout of agava is also responsive and flexible, cross-browser compatible and well documented. for your information, you can take your online presence to an entirely new degree by implementing a blog and even selling stuff online. more info / download demo kameleon kameleon is a beautiful and easy to use wordpress creative multiuse website theme. equipped with a cutting edge set of tools, features, shortcodes, plugins and widgets that make it one of the most powerfully pliable themes on the market today, capable of bending over backwards to suit your every graphical requirement and layout styling choice. with tools like the premium wpbakery page builder, the revolution slider slideshow builder, a stunning contact form 7 live builder and the wp live customizer, there isn’t a thing about kameleon that you can’t wholly customize to suit your branding requirements, without ever having to so much as see a single line of code. with handsome sets of thousands of line icons and icon fonts, endless color possibilities, dozens of creative layouts and beautiful css3 animations, kameleon will always ensure you make the right first impression. try it today! more info / download demo morgan morgan is an intuitive wordpress resume, vcard and personal portfolio website theme. putting together a fully functional website with morgan will take you under half an hour, with intuitive page by page importation processes to produce the exact look, feel and hierarchy you envision. with a selection of five different homepage styles, you can greet your visitors in different tones to suit your business, while five header and three footer styles ensure your website is unique and expressive of your identity. wpbakery page builder is also included to help you drag and drop your elements around your layouts as you wish. useful modern features such as the download resume button will make the right impression on prospective employers across many fields and industries. lastly, beautiful portfolio capabilities and utter responsiveness ensures your works reach the ends of the earth, looking sharp and retina ready. more info / download demo werkstatt werkstatt is a sleek and responsive wordpress creative portfolio website theme. a perfect tool for businesses and professionals to set up handsome websites. in a matter of minutes and without any coding werkstatt can achieve professional results. you can also use werkstatt’s powerful admin theme settings to shape your pages with ease. with the wpbakery page builder you can drag and drop your elements into action without breaking a sweat. deploy sophisticated capabilities in a matter of seconds and customize them at your leisure. professionals love werkstatt as a platform for their vcard websites. with a broad range of portfolio tools, showcasing their capabilities and skills is easy. moreover, stunning layouts and templates let you make the right first impression every time. smooth hover effects and seamless hover animations keep people engaged. furthermore, your audience will connect with your professional resume in a memorable way with werkstatt. optimized for seo, your vcard website will get noticed in no time at all. werkstatt has handsome custom social media integration features. lastly, you can market yourself and your servies across social media very effectively. fully responsive, werkstatt plays nice with devices and platforms across the board. reach a broader audience, with werkstatt at your side! more info / download demo lambda are you looking for a minimalistic and versatile wordpress theme for your next project? you may consider buying lambda wordpress theme. lambda is a clean and stylish theme that you can use for building different kinds of website for resume, corporate, business, personal, photography and portfolio. this theme also enables you to build a website in a jiffy using the theme’s one click demo installer. moreover, the creators developed its strong and bendy framework based on the newest bootstrap technology that enables you to quickly build smart and mobile-optimized website. packed with useful features and customization options such as unlimited color scheme options, unique skin editor, great google fonts and typekit support, built-in font awesome icons, and infinite header options. lambda comes with a drag and drop functionality powered wp bakery wpbakery page builder. likewise, they fully integrated this theme with revolution slider, a powerful wordpress plugin that you can utilize in crafting animated slideshows for your inimitable website. this theme also uses wordpress theme customizer that lets you configure theme elements with ease. they also bundled this theme with isotope gallery plugin and offers unlimited blog options. the social icons with twitter widgets included in this theme, give website users a great opportunity to promote their content on different social networking platforms. more info / download demo cvcard wp cvcard is minimalistic vcard wordpress theme that will surely catch the attention of any possible employers or clients that may chance upon your website. the theme’s low key design also allows you to showcase your talents, skills and work with sophistication. additionally, the minimalist design of the theme gives you enough room to personalize the website template. use cvcard as a single page or multiple page portfolio sites. moreover, you can choose between dark and light schemes, choose among the 6 color options available, experiment using 400+ icons of fontawesome and many more. the theme also includes custom shortcodes that speed up the process of building your professional profile on the web. if you are not completely satisfied of how your vcard looks, you can tweak certain theme elements through its powerful theme options panel to add a personal style to your website design. cvcard’s smooth css3 transitions will give your website a splendid transition effect that will certainly wow your users, enhance engagement and boost your conversions. furthermore, the website template has an awesome blog support that will help you reach out to your visitors, fans or followers and even establish readership to your personal website. and with its social media integration, you are also able to easily promote your vcard and get the word out. the theme also include a custom contact form, localization ready, tested and compatible with all major browsers and specially built for efficiency. more info / download demo if you are not a huge fan of wordpress and think that you can handle html, css, and javascript on your own you might want to consider these resumes templates. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. bootstrappersonal blogportfolioresumevcard share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts top 11 sleek coworking wordpress themes 2020 with a growing number of coworking spaces all over the world, coworking websites have become… 37 free responsive corporate wordpress themes for startups & medium businesses 2020 gone are the days when consumers run to stores or malls just to see the… top 10 psychological wordpress themes 2019 have you ever dreamed about the launching of your own perfectly working ecommerce online project… 65 best blog wordpress themes for corporate, personal, fashion, travel, photoblogging & more – 2020 here you will find the best wordpress blog themes for any category starting from a… 30+ awesome wordpress portfolio themes to showcase your work with style 2020 looking for a wordpress theme to showcase your portfolio online? that's exactly what we'll look… top 20 free & premium viral news & buzz themes for wordpress 2020 you might have heard of websites like upworthy, viralnova, 9gag and others. all these websites… this post has 18 comments aaron says: at thanks for the recopilation! colores is nice! reply james says: at i have mixed feelings about online resumes outside linkedin and xing (it is more popular in some than linkedin in some german speaking regions). the thing is that headhunters and recruiters starts their research process from linkedin and then moves on to other resources such as company websites and local websites to find suitable candidates. but if you and your online resume is not listed on any of these resources it means that you can’t be found. if someone knows your name then he/she can google you but there is a tiny chance that they know you. even then it might be difficult to find you if your names is “john” with even more common last name. there might be hundreds of online resumes for those people ranking above you in google, so no one will find you. you should look at you and your career as a brand and you should promote in every possible resource including local cv databases, linkedin, xing, personal website, behance, dribbble, github (last 3 are specific to designers and web designers) etc. the thing that i am trying to say here is that it doesn’t matter how cool is your personal portfolio or online resume if you can’t be find when other companies, recruiters or headhunters are looking for you. the best place to start is to create linkedin profile with detail description about your education, work experience, main tasks, achievements, skills and everything else relevant about you. once you are done with that, you can move on building your personal website as online resume. reply aigars says: at james, thank you for your valuable feedback! everyone looking to download these themes should read your advice! no matter how cool is your website, if it can’t be found then it has no value at all. nice to see advice from headhunter on this thread! thank you! reply manny faulborn says: at i believe you meant ïf it can’t be found”. reply aigars says: at thank you for pointing that out! 🙂 fixed that error. reply ruud says: at very good advice which i totally agree with. i’ve had a linkedin/monsterboard for over a year now, and want to profile myself more. headhunters/recruiters know where to find me, and my personal website will act as an extension of what i already have. it should do so for everyone who’s considering this. reply lymin says: at you definetly have a point. but i think creating a website resume/portfoilio is a great way to show clients who youve already met face to face what your about. it be more suitable for design/creative type resumes than anything else. if your a ui, web, photgrapher, graphic, illustator or any type of designer of the sort. its a good chance to stand out to a potential client. its definetly an extra not a replacement for linked in. but its a great way to show off your skill set. especially if you also have previous work examples on there. reply alexandra says: at none of these templates are free. reply aigars says: at alexandra, there aren’t a single reference to “free” in title of this post or otherwise. all these are premium themes without exceptions. if you are looking for free themes you should start your research here. reply japply says: at such a good way to create beautiful online cvs reply arthur says: at great, minimalist and tasteful, i like these layouts. reply jun ye says: at some of these templates really inspired me to create my own site. reply arief pratama says: at bionick is very cool, responsive, cool, elegant and fast 🙂 reply natasha says: at these are really good selection of themes. i’ve been using about.me to promote my cv for more than two years and as a freelance marketing consultant many have been impressed with the fact that i can just send a link of my website profile and they can just view what i offer online. unfortunately, the about.me platform is very restrictive and you can only feature selected info. all these are really nice but for a wordpress newbie which theme do you think would be easiest to install? i’m kinda attracted to the savannah theme. any recommendations to narrow down the selection from the ones you’ve outlined? reply aigars says: at hey natasha, if you feel like savannah is the right theme just go with it and you won’t be disappointed. all wordpress themes are the same when it comes to setup as they are based on wordpress. which means that majority of the features comes from wordpress itself with some styling tweaks in place. other themes that i might recommend are incubator, massive dynamic but savannah will work just as well. reply brandon graves says: at you shared here very most useful wordpress themes, it will help to build most user friendly websites that offer an attractive presentation. reply ashiq says: at hi there, this is really nice list of vcard wordpress themes. thanks for sharing them! reply imam uddin says: at all themes are very attractive looking. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: blog like a pro: 2019 best blog templates to create a professional blog that stands out next post: 10+ engaging email newsletter templates we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×