skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: home / inspiration / 30 best small apartment design ideas ever presented on freshome 30 best small apartment design ideas ever presented on freshome by mihai on march 18, 2020 in inspiration collect this idea zzzdim – stock.adobe.com shop these products now: macrame wall decor – jute baskets – rug – wall hanging planter do you live in a small apartment? many of us do, whether by choice or necessity. we often get the feeling that some of the projects we present on freshome don’t get the attention they deserve. and the ideas presented in these 30 small apartment designs below are definitely worth a second look. most of you are probably looking for clever ways to enhance the space in your home, which is why we decided to compile this post. every photo below is linked to the original article, where you will find plenty of images and information about each of the small apartments featured. and for space-saving furniture ideas, be sure to check out our favorite space-saving furniture for small apartments. even though there is no specific formula when it comes to designing a small home or room, there are a few keys to success. painting your walls in bright colors, utilizing unconventional hidden storage (such as this underbed box from the container store), embedding multi-purpose furniture — these are just some of the tricks we’ve come across on freshome. finally, add paintings, graphic art and flower arrangements for a comfortable feel, and personalize the space in any way you can think of without overcrowding it. here are 30 of the most ingenious small apartment designs ever presented on freshome; enjoy and get inspired! 1. surprisingly small apartment in paris with a charming red and white interior 2. tiny apartment in sofia with wall graphic details 3. small apartment in gothenburg showcasing an ingenious layout collect this idea artemp1 – stock.adobe.com shop these products now: wall showcase – counter chair – side table 4. strikingly clever layout making the most of a 21sqm swedish crib 5. intelligent and high-tech small apartment with mind-blowing features 6. small swedish apartment securing the inhabitant’s every need collect this idea tashka2000 – stock.adobe.com shop these products now: dining chairs – toaster – curtains – round table 7. small loft featuring bright, vividly colored spaces 8. cozy apartment with just enough space for everything 9. small apartment in barcelona with clever design solutions 10. apartment in tel aviv displaying an original layout 11. cozy one-room apartment with paned windows and parquet floors 12. small apartment design optimized by maurício karam 13. inspiring all-in-one-room apartment in stockholm 14. tiny stockholm apartment with smart floor plan 15. beautiful and efficient design in a one-room apartment 16. lovely twin apartments with a clever design collect this idea oksana_bondar – stock.adobe.com shop these products now: counter stool – throw pillow – fruit bowl 17. one-room apartment in stockholm showcasing an ingenious interior design collect this idea ppa5 – stock.adobe.com/adobestock shop these products now: wall cabinet – wooden chair – fruit bowl 18. delightful swedish crib, or how to make the most of a small apartment 19. well-planned small apartment with an inviting interior design 20. the perfect student’s crib: small but well organized abode 21. red nest, an incredible 23-square-meter apartment in paris 22. incredible space maximization in a small studio apartment 23. decorating a small apartment: not so difficult after all collect this idea aleksandrs kenenkovs/adobestock shop these products now: writing table – wall clock – flower pot 24. beautiful and practical tiny apartment interior design 25. elegance and coziness meet in compact gdansk apartment 26. perfect layout inspired by lovely apartment in stockholm 27. tamka apartment, a cheerful and playful living space 28. small but cute and comfy apartment from one of our readers 29. inspiring small apartment with vintage details 30. delightfully bright apartment expresses love for small spaces also read inspiration 10 inspiring work-from-home office setups inspiration 8 expert tips on organizing your home while sheltering in place popular stuff give your brick fireplace a facelift - reader story don't stockpile: what to buy for home quarantine during coronavirus bedroom windows buying guide heat pump troubleshooting and repair bedroom windows buying guide popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss