hair romance hair blog - hair tutorials - curly hairstyles and more home tutorials curly hair curly hair guide braids guide shop about terms of use privacy policy disclosure policy contact 30 days of twist & pin hairstyles – the hair romance ebook learn how to style your own hair with hair romance’s simple twist & pin techniques. with over 30 days of hairstyle inspiration, you’ll learn easy everyday hairstyles and more intricate, formal upstyles in this ebook. save money on salon upstyles and learn over 30 new hairstyles. inside you’ll find over 75 pages of hair-spiration including: 30 twist & pin hairstyle tutorials step-by-step photos of every hairstyle tricks to style your own hair at home tips for the perfect at-home blowdry guide to styling tools hairstyling glossary each of the 30 days’ hairstyles is demonstrated with step-by-step pictures, plus clear written instructions and variations for different hair lengths and textures. created by christina butcher, the new york times’ bestselling author and hair behind the top hair blog, hair romance, this is the original 30 day hairstyle challenge. take control of your best accessory, your hair. 30 days of twist & pin hairstyles e-book what readers are saying: “i bought this e-book and will worship every page and penny spent on it! this is exactly what i’ve needed for my hair. i followed the 30 day challenge, but couldn’t figure out how to do any of the hairstyles myself. after reading through the e-book i came to realize how easy the styles really are! i’m definitely going to try each and every single one out! thank you so much!” kate “so fabulous. i’ve just got my copy. i have mastered 1 of your styles now i have 30 to go. can’t wait to try. you have done an amazing job at this , its been quite something to follow. will post on my blog if i have any more styling success….. wish my un-co self luck!! thank you xx” sarah “you are so talented! thank you for sharing! i own a women’s fitness center in the us and am ever trying to find options other than a ponytail to keep my hair back but cute. this is so very perfect. so many of your styles are so simple yet so elegant, too… love that. many, many thanks!” christie “i just got your e-book! it’s fantastic, i have already tried one look (the twist and pin type) and looked lovely! thank you for putting together so many lovely styles and easy instructions!” laura “thank you so much for sharing and inspiring us all. i’ve been a long time subscriber and got my start with your 30 days of twist & pin hairstyles ebook while i was working in kandahar airfield, afghanistan. didn’t even need to add hairspray because of all the dust!” judy take a peek inside… get it now learn all these styles… get it now start twisting & pinning your way to great hair! click here to get your copy of the 30 days of twist & pin hairstyles ebook now. hair romance all information copyright hair romance™ 2010-2020. hair romance is a registered trademark. quick links home about 30 days of curly hairstyles 30 hairstyles in 30 days 30 braids in 30 days 30 buns in 30 days advertise contact contact email: thehair[at]hairromance[dot]com mail: po box 1288, darlinghurst nsw 1300 twitter: @hairromance instagram: @hairromance copyright christina butcher 2020