what if in the next 30 days you could start a successful virtual assistant business from scratch? using skills you already have (or by learning a few new ones)! i’m ready to put my sweet skills to work! skills like: social media management email management project management content production bookkeeping and more! with a bit of sweat equity, you can build a business that allows you to work from home (or anywhere really!) and that offers freedom and flexibility. there are literally millions of businesses that need help from people just like you. people who can perform the tasks that they don’t have the time, desire or know-how to do. people who can help small business owners maintain and grow their companies over time. launching a va biz can be overwhelming and confusing – but it doesn’t have to be! 30 days or less to virtual assistant success will eliminate the guesswork involved in launching (and growing) your successful virtual assistant business. we’ll walk you step-by-step through the entire process. as a result, you’ll set a strong business foundation, select your niche(s) and even find and pitch prospective clients. throw in a little bit of determination and you’ll be up and running before you know it! i’m ready to put my sweet skills to work! hailey thomas former corporate recruiter turned kickass va first va job: 38 days from enrolling in 30 days or less location: works remotely from normal, illinois (usa) return on investment: received first paycheck 49 days from initial course enrollment average monthly income: $4,785 “it’s official! today – 365 days ago – i started this va course. year 1 was figuring out if i could create value for others and get them to pay me for my work, all while working part-time hours. turns out, i can. 6 clients, $29k and several new friendships later — i’m really glad i made the choice to start this journey. thanks for sharing your story and opening doors for others gina! #youdabest “in 2014 i was tired of the corporate 9-5 grind and desperate for a career change. i wanted the ability to work from anywhere, spend more time with my family and replace my cushy and dependable salary in personal finance.” my personal story is not that unusual… in early 2014, i (gina horkey) didn’t even know that working online as a virtual assistant was a thing. suffice it to say, my entire world opened up when i found out! i didn’t understand that people just like you and me were able to build a sustainable businesses helping other small business owners from afar and get paid hundreds or thousands of dollars each month in the process. you mean i could work from anywhere in the world (in my yoga pants) if i wanted? without having to join a mlm, sell my soul or go back to school to get another degree? heck yeah, sign me up! you see, i was desperate for a career change and to find some type of work that i was passionate about. but as the breadwinner of our young family of four i was also a bit leery. could this new-fangled online business schtick really work for me? could it really replace my cushy and dependable salary in personal finance? the only way i could find out was to give it a shot. so i did. i started my business in may of 2014, secured my first freelance client (and paycheck) within a month and hustled to keep building it from there. within 6 months i was earning $4,000 per month on the side of my full-time job – with a baby and toddler in tow. and within 8 months of looking into this online business thing, i had quit my job and left the 9-5 behind! was it scary? heck yes! but that’s why i started my business as a side hustle first to validate the concept. and that’s what i’d recommend that you do as well. or maybe you’re just looking to pull in a little extra income into your household? that’s cool, this course can help you build a nice little side hustle too! elizabeth neumann married 30-something, aspiring to become a digital nomad first va job: within 6-8 weeks of actively prospecting for clients location: works remotely from ontario (canada) or wherever she happens to be traveling too return on investment: immediately after securing first one-off project average monthly income: surpassed previous full-time job (and it’s continuing to grow!) “gina’s courses were one of the main reasons i was able to leave my full-time job to become a full-time entrepreneur. they are easy to follow with step-by-step exercises to implement along the way. i was able to see that i could earn an income online and had her support for any questions that came up. i completely recommend her courses to anyone who realizes the opportunity to earn income online and wants the guidance to make it happen!” why not you? why not virtual assistants are in demand. it’s true! did you know: there has been a 95% increase in demand for vas in the last three years? the average north american virtual assistant earns $35 to $50 per hour, (with some going as low as $20 per hour and others as high as $100 per hour)? a recent survey by upwork shows 69% are happier freelancing than working in a regular office-based position? make sense though, right? with technology advancements, businesses are more comfortable than ever working virtually. they’re open to (and in some cases prefer) hiring contractors, freelancers and the like. it saves them a crapload of money (think benefits, employment taxes, etc.) and time when it comes to training new employees. so why wouldn’t the need be increasing?! as a virtual assistant, you’ll help real business owners solve real challenges. at the same time, you’ll be building a sustainible service-based business for yourself. “i needed a va to help with a product launch. i only had 2 weeks until launch and was looking for immediate help. horkey handbook came through and saved the day! i received multiple high quality applications – and hired someone within a few days. the va i worked with was amazing… she kept me sane during my launch, completed all tasks ahead of time, and went above and beyond in numerous ways (including making insightful suggestions for my next launch). i can’t recommend gina’s virtual assistant finder enough!” sally miller virtual assistant i’m ready to start a va side hustle! sarah bowman married mom to 1 who launched a va biz during her daughter’s naptime first va job: within 6 months of enrolling in the course location: works remotely from pueblo west, colorado (usa) return on investment: immediately after launching her business average monthly income: $1,200 “i loved 30 days or less to va success. the course was exactly what i needed to get my business launched. i have implemented what gina has taught and within 3 months of launching, i have a full roster of clients and am looking to expand – i have a waitlist of clients wanting to work with me! i am very thankful to gina for all the hard work that she has put into her course and the updates she’s provided.” 30 days or less to virtual assistant success will walk you step-by-step through the process of launching and growing your va biz. here’s what you’ll get: lifetime access to 30 days or less to virtual assistant success 30 days of trial access to our va leads community plus free wordpress hosting from flywheel* *33/month thereafter with the ability to cancel anytime. what you will find inside the course: play video a sneak peek at what’s inside! alright, i’m ready - let’s do this thing! build your va foundation — including getting your mind right, further defining what a va is and looking at both the benefits of working with and becoming a virtual assistant. establishing your online presence — including whether or not you need a blog, how to setup a newsletter optin box and how to acquire testimonials. all things pitching — including templates to use, pitching best practices, etc. how to manage your va business — including learning about contracts, onboarding new clients and parting ways with those that are no longer a fit. interviews with niche experts — learn insider tips and tricks from niche experts who have already built successful businesses offering various services. launch your va business — including choosing your target market, honing in on your service offerings, deciding what to call yourself and writing your va resume. how to make money as a va — including setting your rates, transitioning to a retainer model, basic business financial components and offering packages. where to source va clients — including your natural market, social media, networking best practices and more! how to interview and get hired — including how online interviews differ from corporate america, tips and tricks and how to follow up. build effective relationships with your clients — including starting with a trial period, knowing your client, scope creep and much, much more! 30 days of trial access to our exclusive community plus free wordpress hosting from flywheel* — course participants and alumni are invited to join our monthly membership community. *$33/month thereafter — cancel anytime 13 templates & worksheets + a custom pitch tracker and rate calculator about our va leads community va leads is an exclusive community for current students and graduates of 30 days or less to virtual assistant –or- freelance writing success. if you’re serious about growing your service-based businesses, here’s what’s included: community & support join our facebook community of virtual assistants who are committed to growing successful, service-based businesses. collectively, we have a wealth of experience and a desire to share. va leads provides the positive, growth-minded environment that is crucial to your success. we'll help you find clients! members gain access to our uniquely sourced client leads. whenever a potential client contacts us looking for a kickass virtual assistant, we post their job doc in the community – our very favorite thing is helping our vas get hired! tech support access our video tutorial to help you set up your business website in no time. you'll also have access to priority tech support — solve your small tech issues without the headaches (or additional cost!). get your website set up and launched within your first month in business (or less!). ongoing education get your questions answered during our bi-weekly office hours. we talk websites, pitching, pricing, managing clients and more. and once you've completed your first 30 days, we'll provide supplemental training to help you level-up your biz! here’s a lead we posted exclusively to our community: here’s one of our va’s landing her first client: carrie serres married sahm to 2 kiddos still in diapers first va job: within 6 months of enrolling in 30 days or less location: works remotely from central illinois (usa) return on investment: immediately after securing first client! average monthly income: $2,500 (working with just 4 clients) “i’ve been a va leads community member since the beginning and have landed four clients from the leads that have been sent out. the money i’ve earned has more than paid for my ongoing investment – it’s so worth it! i enjoy my work so much and truly appreciate the flexibility va work allows me. i’m able to do laundry and play with my kids during the day, and be a more present mom and wife.” alright, i’m ready - let’s do this thing! launch your virtual assistant biz today and get access to all future course updates and upgrades. 30 days or less to virtual assistant success $ 199 00 / month x 3 monthly payments 9 self-paced modules 90+ lessons (145+ minutes of video content) 22+ enhanced templates and worksheets 8 customizable pitch templates (with examples!) a final exam to test your knowledge certificate of completion 30 days of trial access to our va leads community* free wordpress hosting from flywheel* *optional – must check box to add upon checkout (renews after 30 days). let's get this party started! 30 days or less to virtual assistant success $ 498 one time payment (save $99!) 9 self-paced modules 90+ lessons (145+ minutes of video content) 22+ enhanced templates and worksheets 8 customizable pitch templates (with examples!) a final exam to test your knowledge certificate of completion 30 days of trial access to our va leads community* free wordpress hosting from flywheel* *optional – must check box to add upon checkout (renews after 30 days). let's get this party started! rachel severns military wife and sahm of 3 school-aged kiddos first va job: a month and a half from course enrollment location: works remotely from alaska (usa) return on investment: within her 2nd month as a va average monthly income: $1,000 i’m freaking out right now – i wrote one case study on email management and woke up this morning to a new client lead in my inbox. gina, if you were next to me, i’d be squeezing your hand so hard right now!” have more questions? we have answers! i'm embarrassed to ask, but what exactly is a va? don’t be embarrassed! va stands for virtual assistant and basically means that you’re helping someone out from afar. i.e. you have a service to offer, they are in need of your service and you make a deal to trade time (or task) for pay. there are tons of services that can fall under the va or virtual assistant umbrella – services like social media, email or blog management, graphic creation, accounting… the list goes on! i have a day job – can i still build a va business in the evenings? you bet! most tasks aren’t time-sensitive, so you can do them on your schedule – around your current 9-5, your family, etc. you might end up working with clients all over the world that are in completely different time zones. two of our vas are overseas right now, for example and it works great! will this course work for me if i don't live in the united states? sure! there are tons of students living outside the u.s. who have built successful careers after taking 30 days or less to virtual assistant success. that’s the beauty of virtual work! one thing to keep in mind though, is that if you want to work with english-speaking clients, you should have a sufficient handle on writing, reading and speaking english too. how long does it take to finish the course? it really depends on you, your schedule and your work ethic. some students have made their way through the course in a weekend, while for others it takes a few months. most students are able to finish the material and begin launching their business in about a month. the course is self-paced, with all of the material being available to you immediately upon enrollment, so it’s really up to you! can i really find success within 30 days? you sure can! i get emails each week from new students sharing their successes and how they just landed their first paying gig. it makes me smile every time! but success doesn’t come without effort… in addition to reading the material, you’ll need to complete the action steps (each lesson includes at least one). and while it may seem scary at first, putting yourself out there and asking to be hired via pitching (the freelancing term for prospecting or applying for work) is what’s going to get you there – you got this! do you have a refund policy? we don’t provide refunds as we’re firm believers that you “get out as much (or more!) as you put in.” investing in yourself is an important decision – if you’re ready to make a commitment to yourself, change your current circumstances and put in the work, you’ll get results! if these folks can do it, so can you! alright, i’m ready - let’s do this thing! our step-by-step learning path results in a rapid return on your investment – check out more student success stories: pam baroro breadwinner and married mom of two littles (including a baby!) first va job: already an experienced va prior to enrolling, pam landed a new client within hours of enrolling at 5x her normal rate! location: works remotely from cebu city, philippines return on investment: within 24 hours of enrolling average monthly income: $2000+ i wanted to thank you for all of the quality leads you’ve been sending us via the va leads community. i’ve probably hoarded a huge chunk – these contracts are probably worth 20x what i paid for the subscription! i had a lot of hesitation enrolling in the course initially – i already had va experience and it cost more than a third of my income as a junior programmer, so i had to save up for a few months first. i was very close to getting my first contract signed upon enrolling, but this time i decided to work on my mindset and was able to successfully charge 5x more than i previously did – the course material on how to deal with client objections helped me to nail it! more than that, i love what the community it has evolved into. sometimes i feel like i’ve already learned it all, but the office hours and expert interviews make me realize that i still have a loooong way to go – in a good way! brea horton former bookkeeper and office manager turned full-time virtual assistant first va job: within 30 days of course enrollment location: works remotely from portland, oregon (usa) return on investment: upon landing first client average monthly income: $4,200 30 days or less and the corresponding community is great for beginners and those more advanced. gina and daryn do a great job describing what each client lead involves and who would be a good fit for that specific lead, so you can gauge what tasks are involved and if you’re comfortable doing them/learning to do them. i can’t recommend it enough, especially because pitching is hard and scary to do when you don’t have much experience under your belt. the good news? this course/community kind of does the hardest part for you! still on the fence? checkout our growing list of student success stories here.