skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » inspiration » 30 beautiful websites using the popular uncode wordpress theme 30 beautiful websites using the popular uncode wordpress theme november 29, 2019 vishnu inspiration 2 comments wordpress is a marvelous platform on which to build your website. but to add an aesthetic appeal to the website, to personalize and brand it, you need a great theme to go with it. one such awesome theme is uncode. uncode is a fairly recent addition to the themeforest stable. it has clocked up sales of over 50,000 and earned for itself a solid 5-star buyer rating. uncode is capable of executing great ideas with minimal design. it also comes with features that you can pick and choose from to give your website a neat functionality and a distinct identity. whether you are a novice or an expert, the theme is surely a delight to work with. key features 30+ homepage concepts and 70+ module options to choose from. 6 menu styles: top right, justify, left, off-canvas, center, overlay and lateral. single-page menu, sticky menu and built-in megamenu integration. 4 premium plugins – visual composer, layer slider, slider revolution and ilightbox – saves you $86. content slider and advanced adaptive grid system are employed. hierarchical options system is followed, so you can pick the ones you want systematically. powered isotope masonry grid helps to create flexible formats, especially for shop and portfolio pages. adaptive image system allows an image to scale automatically and allows the developer to mark points where the image will break to fit any device. built-in header, infinite sidebars and a number of footer variations. 16+ built-in layouts for displaying your portfolio or blogs, each with custom options. option for a single-page blog. recommended posts system. beautiful media galleries, extensive thumb variations, enhanced media library and intelligent color systems. best posts/pictures/project/client testimonials can be placed on the carousel to highlight them. one-page scroll, smooth scroll and smooth parallax. interactive tabs and accordions, and smart cascade options. responsive and well-coded with smooth css3 animations. wide range of fonts to select from: bigtext font, google fonts, typekit, font squirrel and fontdeck. 1000+ handpicked icons. standard and customized google maps, and custom maintenance page are included. woocommerce and contact form 7 integration. optimized for seo. one-click import and access to complete online documentation and video tutorials. wpml ready and rtl support, enabling translation into multiple languages. social network friendly. let’s now see how some folks have used uncode to build their own websites. i’ve picked 30 websites for a closer look. the revenant this is the dutch website of the movie ‘the revenant‘, which bagged 3 oscar awards in 2016. the website sports full-screen images from the film on a slider. if you wish to watch its trailer, you can do so by clicking on the youtube video embed in one of the horizontal sections. to understand the story better and to have a context of the period in which it occurred, you can access the timeline regarding fur hunting in america from the header. the website also puts 11 images on a separate page in a slider. tom robak tom robak is a destination wedding photographer based in london. his vocation takes him to locations in all corners of the world. and his love for travel is evident in the volume of work displayed in the blog pages of the website. he conducts workshops on wedding photography and has even provided a link for those who want to sign up for a seat in the class. the website largely uses subdued colors. david porter david porter seems to believe that out of chaos comes creativity, if his homepage is anything to go by. he is a web, print and video craftsman, and the tools of his trade are all over the homepage. readers wanting to engage in his services ought to take some time to visit the about page; it is filled with information about the work he has done and the skills he has acquired. moreover, progress bars keep track of the projects he has completed. thomas schuppisser thomas schuppisser is a photographer living in zurich. his focus is on landscapes and people. the website showcases the landscapes and portraits in a portfolio on the homepage. the menu can be called and dismissed at will – it is off-canvas and slides in and out from the right side of the screen. ckgd.net chris koch is a freelance graphic designer. he specializes in print and web design, logos and digital art. he explains each field in the horizontal sections on the homepage on ckgd.net. each field also merits a separate section in the portfolio page, where he tries to educate readers about graphic design, and not just merely showcase his work. you can also buy tees, posters and other stuff, as he sells his work on the website with woocommerce integration. stay golden stay golden is an agency in dusseldorf, for corporate design and branding. their website puts a sample of their work and their latest news on sliders in the homepage. the inner pages carry pictures of their work, the services they offer, and the golden rules they stick to while working with a client. a search button is present in the header in the usual way as in most websites, but clicking on it takes a reader to a fully dark page containing only the search feature, gently persuading a reader to continue a search. north trampoline north trampoline are makers of premium trampolines for sky athletes. a full-screen outdoor image with a trampoline in focus is what a visitor gets to see on the site’s home page. neat drawings highlight the best features of their product. the homepages, as well as the products page, display the different models. a reader visiting the athletes page will be truly inspired by the youtube embeds of athletes in action. kruger & lupis kruger & lupis are a firm of insurance experts in france who promise to cut down the time taken to process a claim. the progression bars and circles on their work page gives their readers an idea of their accomplishments. in addition to an individual contact page, a rather detailed contact form is also available in the footer. tenfold tenfold creative are in the business of getting brands and campaigns to click with their target audience. based in auckland, they have many successful campaigns and awards to their name. this site portrays the success they have created for brands within the construction industry, with a link to their main website in the footer. you can send them a message by clicking on the button on the right. it remains sticky and reachable, even as you scroll. dan ax dan ax is a cinematographer and director of photography. thus, his website is all about images – still and reel. a dark background has been used throughout the website, to portray the images in a striking manner. the images are tightly packed in a grid without any spaces or gaps. furthermore, the contact page is neat and innovative. this page also displays the social media buttons. qubavr qubavr is the on-line home of quba michalski, a man who answers to multiple descriptions – creative director, motion artist, filmmaker, problem solver and creative thinker. he currently uses ar and vr as the main tools to create stories and experiences. the website puts some of his work with clients in full-width horizontal sections on the homepage. by clicking on them, visitors can sample videos made with virtual reality. the website also includes a blog and a full-page search feature. stitched you can be forgiven if you think that the homepage of stitched looks like an incomplete game of dots and dashes. but actually, the design is quite appropriate. stitched offers services to help connect like-minded people, to find the right person and make a correct match between employer and employee. the website makes full use of the white space and the absence of a footer, to set out in horizontal sections what the team can do. the bulletproof musician the bulletproof musician is the place where noa offers help to performers afflicted by stage fright. the homepage is kept black and white, with the top half being dark-skinned and the lower half reserved for grid images on a white background. members can login using the breadcrumb navigation in the accent bar at the top of the website. new travelist images fill the homepage of new travelist. it serves as a forum where writers, travelers and photographers meet and inspire readers with their love for travel and places. they do this by working to create an archive of pictures and stories about every little place on earth. readers can virtually transport themselves to big cities, wilderness and quaint villages through the blog’s pages. you can navigate the website from the transparent header or the broad footer. bell an agency that works to transform brands, communication and businesses, bell uses the one-page menu option to escort readers to the pages they want. you cannot miss the milestones they have crossed, as it is highlighted against a bright red background in number counters. the accolades the agency has earned finds a place on the slider in the body of the homepage, as well as in the footer. gouppercase gouppercase deals with accessories for digital products, mostly covers for mobiles and laptops. keyboard protectors, arm rest protectors, sleeves and more are set in a grid on the homepage. the footer is dark, broad and carries links for the products and pages. users can sign up for the newsletter and promotional offers from the footer. revunit revunit is a blog that is devoted to software development and marketing. appropriately, an image of the keyboard fills the screen on the homepage. the signup button occupies a prominent place, so readers can sign up to receive content in their inbox. the blog posts are displayed in a grid format without gaps or margins. if a reader wants to know more about their work, they can follow the link to their full site. the site puts the link both in the header and footer. the stylish citizen the stylish citizen captures photographs of real people with style and taste. the locations for the photographs are the streets of munich and some other places. to glance through the photographs city-wise or date-wise, you’ll have to visit the archives, which is tightly packed with images from cities all over europe. the about and contact menu items share the same page. fitbark fitbark promotes health for dogs, helping pet owners catch the early signs of any illness or lack of fitness in their pets. the homepage sports a promotional video. with woocommerce integration, the website doubles as an online store selling dog health monitors. the sticky header helps a user move to any page quickly. meanwhile, the sticky social sidebar allows instant sharing on social networks. mad about you mad about you is a brand, strategy and visual identity agency. the website is text-heavy, explaining in detail the work their team has done. and so, the dominant color on the pages is white, to make it easier to read the text. atlanta makers atlanta makers are engaged in connecting the citizens of atlanta to the craftspeople of their city. the full screen video shows craftspeople at work. a visitor can suggest a craftsperson’s name or start a search in the header region. to navigate the website, you have to scroll to the footer region. fiasko fiasko are experts in digital communication, and their website conveys a distinct identity. the one-page menu is off-canvas, but navigation is possible via the vertical slider on the right. the website also displays their prominent clients on a horizontal slider. on the other hand, a number counter keeps track of the number of youtube views. metier metier is about all things cycling, and more. it is a hub for cycling, equipment, atmosphere, food and community – all related to cycling. it has woocommerce installed, enabling it to sell online. the homepage also has a number of horizontal sections setting out the facilities and services on offer, and a user can click on any section to view the inner pages. parlamind parlamind uses artificial intelligence to identify customer issues, spot trends and improve user experience. the one-page website is available both in german and in english. although the site uses bright colors, the overall effect is pleasing. recipes.bakers’s cousin did you know that you can use peanut butter in so many recipes? i counted over 60 recipes in which it can be used on recipes.baker’s cousin blog, all placed in a neat grid on which you can click to read the recipe. peanut butter was the ingredient for the contest in which bakers submitted recipes in the last month. the next month’s ingredient is apples. any baker desiring to submit a recipe clicks on the ‘get a taste ‘ button and can submit a recipe on the main website after signing up. you’ll be glad of the back to top button, seeing the number of entries submitted and displayed in the grid. thyme thyme creative photography are specialists in photographing food in an enticing manner. the full screen photographs on the slider on the homepage are so vivid, you can almost hear the butter sizzling in the pan. the header is transparent, but turns white and sticky as you scroll down. hamish robertson hamish robertson is a professional photographer. his portfolio page carries exhibits styled to appear like paintings hanging on a wall, against a mute grey background. the menu is retained in the sidebar at the left, leaving the rest of the screen space available for display of photographs. wherever required, the menu items have sub-items that are well categorized helping a visitor to navigate the website easily. virtus virtus offers natural skincare for men. the homepage is minimal, with white colored text against a uniform grey color background. it also has an off-canvas menu that slides in from the left. titlegraphic titlegraphic is a digital creative studio catering to both established and new businesses. all the pages are kept short. the portfolio is well categorized and slotted to different sub pages. moreover, the call to action buttons are conveniently placed for a reader to see their work and reach out to them. hostpress hostpress is a wordpress hosting services provider located in germany. their website is kept simple and uses shades of blue and grey on a white background. the header and footer are plain and carry the logo. furthermore, the homepage carries a video demonstrating the one-click wordpress installation. in the span of 5 pages – homepage, features, why hostpress, plans and contact – a whole load of information about their services are clearly discussed. mast & falls mast & falls is an interior design agency started by two friends with a passion for creativity. the creativity is on display in the design of their website. full-screen images on sliders carry pictures of beautiful interior works. sliders are used to carry client testimonials and post titles. their key strengths are also highlighted in the sidebar. furthermore, a helpful scroll to the top button can be found on all the pages. and finally uncode is a highly flexible, customizable and creative multipurpose theme. as one of the top selling creative themes, i’m sure there are many more great websites on the internet based on this theme. you can check out more websites in the uncode wordpress theme showcase. if you’ve come across any, or if you run any awesome website on uncode, drop us a line in the comments below. purchase uncode now! thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. multipurpose themetheme examplesuncodeuncode wordpress themewebsite examples share this share tweet pin it share vishnu vishnu is a freelance writer by night, works as a data analyst by day. related posts 20 best windows signage mockups 2019 when setting up a storefront for a shop, bakery, restaurant, even a business, these windows… 30 beautiful websites using wpexplorer’s flag ship theme – total wpexplorer claims that the wordpress theme of their own creation is called total for a… 20 life-like rack card mockup templates 2019 when designing marketing material for a brand, a company or a firm, a rack card… 22 best street poster mockup templates 2019 use a street poster mockup template from the collection below and test your extraordinary design.… 20 best lightroom presets for pro results 2019 to speed up the photo retouching process and be consistent at all times, our collection… top 37 photoshop actions for photographers & designers photoshop is arguably the most powerful graphics editing software on the planet. adobe has managed… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 36 free t-shirt mockups for clothing brands & print shops 2019 next post: 19 best food truck mockup templates 2019 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×