start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search 30 day productivity challenge for self improvement 8 comments menu procrastinationimprove focusovercome fearproductivitystart your venturetime management 30 day productivity challenge for self improvement 8 comments5 min read 165shares have you always wanted to live the life of your dreams but never been able to make any progress towards it? do not worry, you can change that if you follow all the guidelines in this 3 phase transformation of living your dreams. in a slow and steady process, you will learn many easy tricks to achieve your dreams. they do even cost a dime because this whole material is free. these tricks have been compiled based on the inputs by various millionaires and successful entrepreneurs. these have been tried and tested by many people who are just starting off. using these you will skyrocket your productivity in no time. the whole process is broken down into 3 phases of 10 steps each. each step will cover a specific exercise. the exercise will help you overcome a problem or help you make progress towards your dream goals. before you begin, do get a certificate confirming that you are committed to chasing your goal. get certificate of journey towards your goals phase 1: learning new productivity ways this is the first phase. to start, you will begin changing your busy day by implementing small tweaks. in no time you will be taking baby steps towards your dreams. in the ten steps in this phase, you will learn and start building a productivity routine. in the ten steps in this phase, you will learn and start incorporating the productivity routine. step 1: how to define long term goals with 3 questions step 2: 5 reasons why writing and reading your goals produces better results step 3: how to use short term goals to achieve long term goals step 4: 5 simple tricks for waking up early to achieve your goals step 5: how millionaires work on an action plan towards their goals step 6: wasting time: activity to assess your productivity step 7: only 9% people effectively plan their day step 8: how to be successful by writing your achievements and mistakes step 9: how to instantly increase focus and reduce distractions step 10: overcome phone addiction using dnd to increase results by 7x phase 2: gaining momentum with routine with the habits that you learnt you will build a routine and form effective daily habits. this phase will help you step closer to your long term goals. this phase will again contain 10 steps. the habits that you will develop over this phase will be tougher to implement as well as well worth it’s value. step 11: complete easiest or toughest task first? finally answered step 12: how to stop procrastinating using this little known trick step 13: improve thinking: unknown secret of better thinking skills step 14: how to conquer your fear of saying no to people in 3 easy steps step 15: work faster: principles of speed that succeeded step 16: why brain mapping using a mind map leads to better ideas step 17: how to eliminate distractions by applying deep work step 18: 7 reasons why multitasking cost me step 19: why is a not to do list more important than a to do list? step 20: the secret benefits of rewarding yourself that you didn’t know phase 3: transforming into a productive super human with all the new bags of tricks and the habits formed around them, you will learn to run your day on auto-pilot mode. this phase will again contain 10 steps. you will develop stronger productivity routines thereby working on subconscious productive mode making it your lifestyle. once you are through with these 3 phases, you will notice a significant difference. your productivity will sky rocket and your results will speak for themselves. step 21: 5 consequences of blaming circumstances that will cost you step 22: self review: eye opening insights you never knew step 23: being late: surprising damage that you are totally unaware of step 24: time saving secrets of the successful people simplified step 25: the power of giving without doing charity step 26: the sensational results caused by dreaming big step 27: this best morning routine will save you 15 hours a week step 28: how i started meeting my long term goals on time step 29: organize your email: effortless hacks to reduce painstaking effort step 30: secret recipe to never forget your thoughts again so what are you waiting for? let’s get going. start with the first step here. how to define long term goals with 3 questions﻿ my goal is to help people 1 million people pursue their dreams. share the article and help me with this mission. you don't need a reward to join the productive club, do you? plain and simple. did you find what you just read useful? great, then get more of such tips to sky rocket your productivity. join the productive club. your name your email 165shares maxim dsouza what i am not: billionaire philosopher conventional what i am: mediocrity hater continuously improving self-learner productivity/time management obsessed join the discussion cancel reply comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. 8 comments shayne osterhouse says: september 25, 2019 at 5:57 am normally i do not learn post on blogs, but i wish to say that this write-up very forced me to try and do it! your writing taste has been surprised me. thanks, very nice article. reply maxim dsouza says: september 26, 2019 at 3:14 pm thanks shayne. i hope to keep the surprises going ? reply smith wilson says: december 4, 2019 at 9:16 am hi! thank you so much for providing us with such interesting and helpful material. i really become more prolific. like a writing sponge.thanks for the guide. reply maxim dsouza says: december 9, 2019 at 1:02 pm glad to hear that the content was helpful smith 🙂 reply navmeet ratan says: january 3, 2020 at 1:14 pm hi maxim,that’s a great post will be sharing with my mates via whatsapp!! reply maxim dsouza says: january 4, 2020 at 2:43 am that will be great. thanks a lot navmeet 🙂 reply edward smith says: january 5, 2020 at 5:44 pm this post is very helpful and effective. the writing style was amazing. i am waiting for your new post and please give me update when you publish new one .thanks for your article. reply maxim dsouza says: january 6, 2020 at 1:03 am thanks a lot edward. i can add your email to the subscription list if you like. reply top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator learn productivity hacks if you would like to boost your productivity and sky-rocket your efficiency, subsribe to our updates topics flaws of your brain growth at work improve focus overcome fear personal development phase 1 starting off with productivity phase 2 gaining momentum with routine phase 3 transform into a productive super human procrastination productivity sleep start your venture time management further reading improve focuspersonal developmentprocrastinationproductivitytime management how to be productive while working from home 8 hours ago flaws of your braingrowth at workimprove focusovercome fearstart your venture shiny object syndrome – how to stop chasing different goals 3 days ago personal developmentstart your venture how to start a business with no money – 12 step process 7 days ago flaws of your brainovercome fearpersonal developmentproductivity how to stop overthinking and relax – 7 simple tips 1 week ago growth at workovercome fearpersonal developmentprocrastinationproductivitystart your venture the 4 pillars of professional growth 3 weeks ago flaws of your braingrowth at workpersonal developmentstart your venture hanlon’s razor – how to stop assuming negative intentions 3 weeks ago about | contact | ask any question | write a guest blog | privacy policy interview series interviews of other self improvement bloggers top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd smart goal setting: the ultimate guide on how to do them right you spend 7.1 years of your life on your smartphone. what else? why people don’t quit a job that they hate? challenges the little better everyday improvement challenge the 7 day wake up early challenge test your productivity 30 day productivity challenge find where you waste time tips and tricks when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide productive club · copyright 2020 · all rights reserved menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step best articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator the website has been created to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity and help people begin their journey of chasing their dream goals. the target is to help 1 million people pursue their dream while having a full time job. will you be one among them?