start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search 30 day challenge – from a weak to confident communicator from a weak to confident communicator - 30 day challenge take me to the steps welcome to the 30 day challenge to improve your communication. no matter what your current level of communication is, you will reap the benefits by following the tips for 30 days. these tips are not just focused on vocabulary but also on listening, body language, persuasion, avoiding subtle mistakes and building better rapport. if you think your friend needs to take up this challenge, do let him/her know. inviting a friend will make the challenge more exciting. two is company, three is a crowd and four is a party. be a part of the challenge community on faceboook what is the from a weak to confident communicator - 30 day challenge? the challenge works in 3 phases. each phase has 10 tips to improve. the ideal method to go about the challenge is to start from the 1st tip and implement one tip a day. the difficulty increases as you proceed into the challenge. though the challenge expects you to perform one task a day, it is recommended that you carry forward the tip that you learned forever. for example, one of the initial tips is maintaining eye contact. it does not mean you maintain eye contact only on day 2. you must practice the habit of better contact for the rest of the days of the challenge and maybe for the rest of your life. phase 1 - day 1 to day 10 day 1: use the name of the person you are talking to day 2: maintain eye contact day 3: greet with a cordial smile day 4: imagine the other person is your good old friend day 5: prepare an answer for commonly asked questions day 6: do not interrupt day 7: say thank you more than you do day 8: pause and process thoughts day 9: ask is it a good time to talk? day 10: practice mentally phase 2 - day 11 to day 20 day 11: count how many times you start a sentence with no, but, however day 12: speak in front of a mirror day 13: use you in your sentences day 14: hang by your teeth day 15: read for 30 minutes and apply at least one learning from what you read day 16: use the parroting technique day 17: give a genuine compliment day 18: count the times you use a filler word day 19: listen more day 20: use one new word phase 3 - day 21 to day 30 day 21: use and instead of but for a negative statement day 22: do not try to win an argument day 23: speak with a lower pitch day 24: focus on the behavior not the person day 25: tweak your words based on generation gap day 26: mirror someone's tone/mood day 27: initiate a conversation with someone who has better communication than you day 28: reduce your fidgeting day 29: talk to a stranger day 30: stop thinking about what to say next frequently asked questions what i find one day per challenge too fast? you are free to take it slow and take one challenge every two days or a week. the goal of the challenge is to become a better communicator by the end of it and not just complete the challenge. should i do the challenge for that day and forget about it? ideally, it is recommended to learn the tip for life. you must try to carry on what you learned for the rest of your life. what if i have to skip a day or two? though the challenge is presented as 30 days, you can choose your own style. some people skip weekends and some practice a skill for many days before moving to the next one. the schedule is only a guideline. feel free to choose your own style. how do i participate in the challenge? you just have to bookmark this page. invite a friend to make the challenge more exciting. two is company, three is a crowd and four is a party. you can receive reminders on the challenge by adding your email below. the most simple way to participate in the challenge is to join the facebook group and receive the daily challenge on your feed every day. be a part of the challenge community on faceboook sign up for the 30 day challenge your name your email 189shares a little better everyday challenge – the kaizen way my goal is to help people 1 million people pursue their dreams. share the article and help me with this mission. you don't need a reward to join the productive club, do you? plain and simple. did you find what you just read useful? great, then get more of such tips to sky rocket your productivity. join the productive club. your name your email 189shares top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator learn productivity hacks if you would like to boost your productivity and sky-rocket your efficiency, subsribe to our updates topics flaws of your brain growth at work improve focus overcome fear personal development phase 1 starting off with productivity phase 2 gaining momentum with routine phase 3 transform into a productive super human procrastination productivity sleep start your venture time management about | contact | ask any question | write a guest blog | privacy policy interview series interviews of other self improvement bloggers top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd smart goal setting: the ultimate guide on how to do them right you spend 7.1 years of your life on your smartphone. what else? why people don’t quit a job that they hate? challenges the little better everyday improvement challenge the 7 day wake up early challenge test your productivity 30 day productivity challenge find where you waste time tips and tricks when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide productive club · copyright 2020 · all rights reserved menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step best articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator the website has been created to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity and help people begin their journey of chasing their dream goals. the target is to help 1 million people pursue their dream while having a full time job. will you be one among them?