skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » inspiration » 30 hipster fonts to inspire your designs 2019 30 hipster fonts to inspire your designs 2019 june 18, 2019 alex ivanovs inspiration 0 comments since most of what you consume online is written in text (content), it helps to create designs that complement the kind of stories and insights you’re sharing. for blogs, it’s slightly easier, since most use the same type of fonts all around. however, if you’re a passionate designer building your own portfolio, great typography could be the meaningful addition to capture attention and make others take notice of your excellent design skills. there exist great online tools that you can use to learn about the kind of fonts other websites are using. although, sometimes, you’ve got an idea already in your mind and all you need is some resources to help you fulfill that idea. in this particular scenario, it’s in regards to hipster fonts. hipster typography is usually considered as free-flowing fonts that are ideal for use in videos, interactive infographics, and other dynamic media environments. that’s not to say that they won’t work with your content pages; you can arrange and achieve anything and everything if you’ve got the determination. we handpicked these fonts and spent several hours of weeding through different types of hipster fonts, and have created what we believe is the most up to date, and indeed the most impressive collection of hipster fonts on the web. although, that is not to discredit those who’ve tried to make these lists before. we love to support content creators, which is just another reason why we put so much effort into producing these collections for all of our community members to enjoy. typography designers reading this post are more than welcome; we encourage you to share their own hipster fonts in the comments. custom work is always beautiful, and there needs to be support for those who create and share freely. creatif street clothing sellers and designers, this one’s for you. creatif is a creative and modern sans serif font-type that features a touch of goth. it also integrates modern design features to make sure your final product stands out from the rest. maybe hipsters don’t see themselves as goths, but you can’t disagree that this font type is as hipster as it gets. will work great on hoodies and shirts, so get printing! totally free to use on your commercial projects, and has hundreds of available glyphs. preview funkrocker adding a little bit of funk to your projects can never hurt. funkrocker utilizes a grunge-style approach that, for sure, is going to add that extra creative spark to whatever you’re producing. the edges of the glyphs are rounded yet with an added twist of roughness that strengthens the overall funky feel. as the author recommends, funkrocker will work excellent for creative art, album covers, posters, and anything else that involves rock and funk. however, this one is free just for personal use; if you wish to acquire a license you need to get in touch with the author, it certainly will be worth it. hard work like this is excellent to support, as it helps the author to push out more great fonts at zero cost. hip hop artists and bands will definitely make a connection with this font type. enjoy! preview monohipster mono fonts have always had that static feel about them, but monohipster enhances it through bends and intricate twists that make this font a beautiful choice for bikers, rock bands, and hipsters who love to add a little bit of toughness to their designs. it’s an artistic take on the regular mono fonts you usually see, yet maintains a modern quality about it. as we said, excellent selection for posters for music events and gatherings where people know how to appreciate the twisted side of things. preview swinkydad are you an old and saggy hipster? tired of these new approaches to design? feel like you need something of your own to make your presence known? the developers have built swinkydad for this exact purpose. you try to connect with your younger peers but nobody seems to be giving a damn, but don’t worry; we’ve got you covered with this stunning old-school hipster font that’s made to impress! completely free to use on your personal projects, so get those creative juices out of the closet and start pushing out some amazing original art! preview cocobiker cocobiker is the little brother of a well-known gothic font that goes by the name of coco gothic. this combination/merge of the fonts provides a hipsterish goth feel to your typeface, and you can expect to earn some loyal fans in the biker and goth communities, of course, hipster too — we don’t prohibit you to use this font in any way you like, they’re all very creative and have their personalities to offer. as always the font is free to use as long as you’re only using it for private/personal projects, a license can be purchased if you like the font and want to push it out on your small business products. while a regular font, it features modern and artistic touches that will leave your peers impressed for a long time. preview feast of flesh what do you expect from a font that’s named feast of flesh? this is a blend of raw italic mixtures and zombie oriented typefaces. the result is a stunning typeface idea for getting inspiration for your next hipster tattoo; we can even see feast of flesh being good to use as a graffiti font too. the last couple of updates have truly helped to shape this typeface into what it is today; it has all the modern features and regularities that will look great on personal and commercial projects alike. preview psychedelia it’s hardly a secret that hipsters enjoy their dose of psychedelic treats; marijuana, magic mushrooms, sometimes even synthetic drugs like lsd. if you have ever been traveling you will know how much people try to avoid locations where it is full of hipsters, the vibes there although not dangerous tend to be quite smoky and not so appealing to the regular traveler who wants to chill and relax. everyone has their own way of living the life, and we’re certainly not judging. psychedelia hm font is an excellent selection for any of your psychedelic related projects — the font perfectly replicates the hipster scene that started up in the 60’s and in some places still continues to go on until today. if you’re a long-time hipster yourself, tell us in the comments as to what your thoughts are on this font, we’d love to hear them. preview underground have you ever been to london before? if you have, you will know the main form of transportation there — known as the tube. a metro complex that goes throughout the whole of the city, and makes it easy to connect with any parts of london. the original typeface was designed many, many years back and yet is still actively being used today. underground nf borrows from the original font type and on top of it adds a more hipsterish feel. these are the kind of font types that you will most definitely see on t-shirts and other types of clothing, but not limited to be used for businesses either. some are saying that the letters are tied too close together, but you’ll have to decide for yourself. preview alphabetized cassette tapes the name “alphabetized cassette tapes” might suggest that this isn’t your average font, certainly not a typeface that you’ll see corporate companies using, though a very delicately handwritten font that’s going to work well with any content headlines and personal projects. like putting together slideshows and presentations, video material could see the use of “alphabetized cassette tapes” — comments suggest that this font hasn’t been disappointing, and is reliable in all aspect of using fonts on both web and individual print projects. preview catholic school girls the names for some of these fonts might seem a little bit of the rails. but suppose that everyone has their take on what a hipster font would be like. catholic school girls is more of a girly/trendy handwritten font to be used in comics or fun projects. not so different from the previous font either, though with a little bit more added curves and such. a good use example would be writing digital invitation letters or sending messages to your friends. preview architext architext will suit formal projects for architects and those with pencil precision for detail. the letters have been individually handwritten, and have a sense of formality to them. ideal for using in your on-line software projects where you require users to sign documents, these handwritten letters will be hard to tell apart from a real pen. comments say that everyone is absolutely in love with this design, what do you think? preview boyz r gross there is a font circulating the web that’s known as girls are weird, and now it seems that someone is trying to capitalize on that statement and are releasing their boys version which is dubbed boyz r gross. a serif type font with a vintage and retro combination that flows into rounded letters and concise shadows, perfect for those who enjoy a little bit of fun with their lettering. use it for school projects, or print out your funny quotes on a t-shirt; uses for boyz r gross will certainly be plentiful. preview aztec hipster the aztecs go way back, and someone got the inspirational juice necessary to put together the style of aztec history combined with a hipster feel. there have been thousands of downloads for aztec hipster, though we’ve hardly come across anyone use this font in commercial projects, does anyone have any samples to show us? either way, it’s a well-rounded font that features a slight italic feel to it. gaming projects might be a great place to utilize a font of this caliber. preview hipster factory xerographer fonts has published 1,200+ fonts that have a combined total of 25 million downloads, with these guys you know that they’re in good hands because of their intense experience over the years on how to create fonts that are appealing to the larger public, though not to say that they don’t know how to cater to individual niches either, because hipster factory is certainly a niche font type, and you’ll adore if you’re in the market for some bold handwritten fonts. the letters are tightly tied together, and feature a colored in letter spacing, but enough to leave some empty spaces out to add that funky feel to it. preview candy inc. billy argel might only have published a mere 130+ fonts, but in total his whole font collection has seen more than 41 million downloads, holy crap! candy inc. is a font that resembles the typical coca cola font we see these days, and has close to 2 million downloads to this day. an excellent font selection for projects related to creative business in the food and clothing industries, will in fact be suitable for pretty much anything where you’re looking to use a font that speaks volumes about your choice of business. contact billy through email if you’d like to discuss the possibility for acquiring a commercial license of the candy inc. font! preview squarefont squarefont is a stellar production from guys at bou fonts — their modest typefaces have several million downloads, and certainly cater to the hipster and creative artist audiences. it will compliment any of your application development projects, it’s the kind of a font that’s going to be hard to miss, yet perfectly fits into any situation imaginable. take a picture, do some layering and then add a piece of text using squarefont and you’ve got yourself a great t-shirt design ready for printing. preview squared display squared display is also a typeface using square methodology, but this one leaves out the square borders and instead focuses on the lettering that has been carved to be into perfect square shapes. the letters are minimal and have a modern digital era feel added to them, as we know already — hipsters love to play around with the technology field, so don’t be hesitant to try squared display and let us know how it went. the author is vikas kumar who has only released a single font on the dafont website, yet has managed to earn 350,000+ downloads — that tells you that sometimes all you need is quality, not quantity. preview basscrw basscrw is a super creative font with plenty of surprises for musicians and digital artists who want to expand on their selection of font choices. we can see basscrw being a great fit for festival posters and general music oriented projects, perhaps that is because the name of the includes the word ‘bass’, but then again — it’s a well put together font that you won’t be able to ignore for the right project. preview hipster bike be introduced to the hipster bike font typeface. it’s a wonderful pick for those who’re into extreme sports. this may be for fun in the local skatepark, or running real competitions. it’s not unusual to see similar fonts to the hipster bike being used at events such as the x-games — it’s a big, bold and a font with a strong presence which means it won’t get unnoticed, and will in fact catch the attention. same way, you could use this font for your repairs shop where you repairs bikes and motorbikes. contact the author if you’d like to discuss a commercial license. preview hipsters night hipster night is a handwritten, tiny lettering, and funky curving font. you can use it best for any individual use that you require. that’s the one side of handwritten fonts anyway. you don’t necessary want to use them in corporate situations, but where presentations and letters are concerned, they could become great companions. this one even includes additional set of characters, like the “@” sign and little heart shaped signs. it also includes a diamond and a star, and the regular expressions that your keyboard has. would suit girls as much as it would boys, just need to find the right use case. preview vonique 64 vonique 64 reminds instantly of vogue, and perhaps appropriately so. new york yields the inspiration for vonique 64. and, we all know already is a high fashion place full of trends and inspiration. the font also has a lot of complex character. you’ll need to be careful for the situations that you want to use it in. certainly, those in fashion will greatly benefit from vonique 64’s features, design, and alignment that’s hard to match. preview confetti stream preview angeline vintage preview fat tats preview going to do great things preview uncle typewriter preview old typewriter preview basilikaopen preview ole-cracked normal preview thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. fontshipster share this share tweet pin it share alex ivanovs alex is a freelance writer with more than 10 years of experience in design, development, and small business. his work has been featured in publications like entrepreneur, huffington post, thenextweb, and others. you can find his personal writing at the divine indigo. related posts 21 best sweatshirt mockup templates 2019 when creating a clothing line, you will definitely need a sweatshirt mockup to present your… 30 gorgeous websites using squarespace as content management system squarespace is a content management system that combines a website builder, a blogging platform and… minimal presentation: 20 powerpoint and keynote templates if you’re in the process of creating a slideshow presentation for your next business meeting,… 32 high-quality free flyer mockups psd 2019 get your hands on the best free flyer mockups and push your promotion above and… 34 best free brochure mockups & psd templates 2019 when you decide to push your design over and above, all you need are the… 17 best event planner websites design to unleash creativity 2019 organising an event, whether corporate, special or trade events is a challenging task. however meticulous… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 30 free beautiful css layouts for user interface designers next post: top 37 photoshop actions for photographers & designers we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×