 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog google search statistics, facts, and trends (2020) written by: anya skrba (published on: january 14th, 2020 last updated: march 24th, 2020) posted in: blogging 2 comments written by anya skrba google is the world’s largest search engine. there are some very remarkable statistics to go over when you’re looking at it from a broader perspective. the second most popular search engine on the market is its chinese competitor, baidu, which only accounts for a lesser share of the global search engine market. to understand the sheer size of google, we need to know the extent of the internet as a whole. google is an indexing service, which provides us with websites and pages based on our specific search queries. while google might index everything you could ever think of, the internet as a whole is a much bigger thing. studies show that google only indexes 35 trillion web pages. yes, only. believe it or not, this isn’t even scratching the surface of the internet. some studies show that the internet as a whole is home to a whopping 17.5 quadrillion different pages. while google still has a long way to go, it is by far the biggest collection of web pages available on the internet. this massive amount of web pages available gives google some promising marketing potential, which makes it an instrumental marketing tool for businesses. the most interesting facts google search index contains more than 100,000,000 gb there are 40,000 google search queries every second between 16% and 20% of all annual google searches are new googles’ global dominance google might be the biggest search engine in the world, but did you know it accounts for a whopping 76% of the global searches on search engines. to get an idea of how global google is, you should know that it remains uncensored to its fullest in all countries apart from crimea, cuba, iran, north korea, sudan, and syria, in which it’s either banned or censored. google is not only a search engine, but it’s also a huge business owner. google owns numerous different online services and is up there with the giants such as apple, amazon, facebook, and microsoft. the combination of these companies accounts for most of the internet’s widespread activity. google is also a driving force in the business world, as it’s marketing potential is huge. since it’s the most popular search engine, different industries benefit from google advertisements. this has grown to such an extent, that google’s advertising revenue reached $95.000.000.000.00 in 2017. 1. top 5 domains with the most visits in february 2020 (source: similarweb) as the leading domain, google counts 74.14 billion visits, followed by youtube (27.365 billion), facebook (21.35 billion), baidu (6.38 billion), and twitter (4.54 billion). 2. google search index contains more than 100,000,000 gb (source: google) the size of the google search index is huge – more than 100,000,000 gb. the size may seem surprising, but google’s website crawlers have indexed hundreds of billions of web pages. 3. there are 40,000 google search queries every second (source: internet live stats) not a second goes by that google doesn’t have about 40,000 search queries to process. this means that, on a global basis, google processes more than 3.5 billion searches every day, and 1.2 billion searches every year. 4. 76% of all global searches take place on google (source: internet live stats) google dominates the global search market share, as 76% of all searches happen on its domain. baidu is second (15%), while yahoo, yandex, ask, duckduckgo, naver, aol, and dogpile have a collective share of 9%. 5. google has the highest search market share in brazil – 95% (source: statista) google is the most popular search engine on the globe, enjoying the highest popularity in brazil (95% search market share) and india (95.9%). it’s the least popular in china, where it has a market share of only 8.04% google consumers’ searching habits since google is the world’s biggest search engine by far, it’s only natural that users are going to develop different searching habits. searching habits of google users vary wildly, with an impressive 15% of all searches being the first of their kind. this bizarrely high percentage owes some of its sizes to misspellings, errors, and faults in the search query. google indexes all sorts of things, from industries, hobbies, and other services, which all contribute to its massive popularity and diverse user base. 6. most of google searches (23.98%) are two words long (source: moz) people typically use two words (23.98%), one word (27.71%), and three words (19.60%) in their google search query. fewer people use 4 (13.89%), 5 (8.70%), or 6+ words (12.12%) in google search. 7. between 16% and 20% of all annual google searches are new (source: internet live stats) google processes between 16% and 20% entirely new searches every year. those are search queries that no one has used before. 8. more than 60% of total google searches come from mobile (source: know your mobile) mobile use is still on the rise, so it’s natural that google searches performed on mobile devices (over 60%, as estimated in 2019) keeps rising too. 9. in 2019, mobile devices accounted for 69% of all google’s paid ads clicks in the us (source: emarketer) in q2 of 2019, most of google’s paid ads clicks in the us came from mobile (69%). this is pretty higher than mobile clicks on bing, which accounted for 34%. 10. google has over 1 billion users of its products and services (source: popular science) google’s products and services count more than 1 billion users worldwide, and the number keeps rising. with 250.5 million users, google sites has the biggest customer base. 11. between 2017-2019, google’s local searches on mobile increased by more than 250% (source: 99firms) of all google searches, 46% are local. and with a huge increase in local searches on mobile (250%), businesses should invest more effort in local seo and mobile optimization. 12. for every $1 a business invests in google ads, they earn $8 in profit through google search (source: google) investing in google search and ads can be very lucrative – turning every $1 into $8. in 2018, google search boosted the us economy by $335 billion. 13. random interesting google search stats voice search (20%) and google images (22.6%) are on the rise in google search. another interesting fact is that one average search session on google doesn’t last longer than 1 minute. conclusion google has been on a steady rise ever since its establishment and seems to show no sign of slowing down in its quick pace. few websites can boast that they have reached the numbers that google has. there is no foreseeable future in which search engines won’t play a crucial role in our daily lives, so we can safely assume that google isn’t going anywhere, any time soon. sources: https://www.similarweb.com/top-websites https://www.google.com/search/howsearchworks/crawling-indexing/ https://www.internetlivestats.com/google-search-statistics/ https://www.statista.com/topics/1001/google/ https://moz.com/blog/state-of-searcher-behavior-revealed https://www.knowyourmobile.com/news/google-search-stats-2019-rise-of-conversion-rate-optimization/ https://www.emarketer.com/content/mobile-search-ad-performance-plays-catch-up https://www.popsci.com/google-has-7-products-with-1-billion-users/ https://99firms.com/blog/google-search-statistics/#gref https://economicimpact.google.com/methodology/ https://economicimpact.google.com/ this entry was posted in blogging. bookmark the permalink. additional reading voice search statistics, facts, and trends (2020) blogging statistics, facts, and trends (2020) cyberbullying statistics, facts, and trends (2020) what is evergreen content and why your blog needs it? the history of blogging - a complete chronology start your own blog this guide is an introduction to mastering the art of blogging. it provides easy to follow steps to start, maintain, and grow your blog. read the guide « previous blogging statistics, facts, and trends (2020) next » the history of blogging – a complete chronology 2 comments on “google search statistics, facts, and trends (2020)” debora m february 10, 2020 at 8:09 am i’ve learned something good from this blog. the information provided is great and helpful. thanks for sharing. reply ogi djuraskovic february 10, 2020 at 9:23 am thanks debora! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog categories blogging wordpress interviews search how to start a blog the beginner's guide 2020 free guide + ebook learn blogging become a successful blogger learn wordpress understand the best practices blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.