skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 30+ best landing page wordpress themes for apps, products, services and business in general – 2020 30+ best landing page wordpress themes for apps, products, services and business in general – 2020 march 24, 2020 aigars theme collections 16 comments looking for the best landing page wordpress themes? you are in the right place! here you will find the best wordpress themes for lead generation, sales pages, app and product showcase, and much more. what are our main criteria for the best wordpress landing page theme? it must fast to load, it should be easy to set up and customize and also include drag & drop page builders such as elementor or wpbakery page builder. we guarantee that you will find the right landing page for your project. having a website is crucial in promoting business and increasing sales. the website is an efficient marketing tool that helps you reach out to your target consumers and get the word out about your apps, software, products or services. you can also use a website as an instrument in establishing credibility in your industry. and one way to make the most of your website is to create a striking landing page for your services, app or business. landing pages of a website serve as a sales page that helps you acquire higher sales and conversions. as an entrepreneur, it is necessary that you pick the appropriate theme that will effectively promote your products and services and boost your sales and profit. here’s a collection of landing page wordpress themes that are specially built for online businesses in mind. divi for your landing page, divi is an ideal choice. few wordpress themes can ever hope to match its quality, given that it incorporates a large collection of modern features. first impressions matter, especially in the online world where attention spans are notoriously short. additionally, your landing page must be stunning, managing to capture the potential customer’s interest. there is no limit to what this page can showcase. divi has numerous site modules, each serving a different purpose. page creation and customization are intuitive, and there is no need for coding expertise. even novice clients will be able to compete with seasoned veterans. the creators presented every site elements as a module. you have the option to select the modules that best serve your business, and implement them with ease. for example, the landing page can include a music player for sample tracks or a video section for tutorials, teasers, and trailers. for those who want to advertise a future release, a nifty countdown timer was added. a site portfolio can impress potential clients and employers, while the post slider makes it easy for users to browse your content. divi also includes a specialized search function, a fullwidth post slider, a number counter, and a comment section. more info / download demo jevelin jevelin is an innovative and mobile-friendly wordpress multipurpose landing page theme. it’s a flexible framework for the seamless development fast-loading landing page websites. jevelin has been packaged with premium page builder plugins as well as the slider revolution premium slideshow builder to allow you to handcraft the look and feel of your websites in an instant, without ever writing a line of code yourself. this theme has been built on a sleek and lightweight modular design based on bootstrap, making it ideally suited for high traffic usage cases, translating into minimized server loads across the board. jevelin is perfect for webmasters in need of a landing page website that can effectively channel the traffic generated by coupon marketing campaigns, advertising campaigns, mobile apps or any other source of bulk traffic generation that needs to be received in an online homepage filled with the information presented in an attractive and functional environment. astonishingly customizable, jevelin can easily be turned inside out, with widgetized sections and áreas all over the place and potent settings to fiddle with. give jevelin a go today! more info / download demo uncode the importance of a well-designed landing page can never be overlooked. by definition, it will be the first thing that your customers see, and first impressions matter greatly in the online business world. uncode is a superior wordpress theme that offers to turn your landing page into an online phenomenon. in addition, it can also enhance every other aspect of your site. uncode has a large collection of useful features, such as the wpbakery page builder. complete with drag and drop capabilities, this plugin allows users to design jaw-dropping layouts. in order to customize a layout, you only need to click on a page element and drag it across the screen. it’s that easy! of course, even the best landing pages can fail, if they are not showcased on search engine results. thankfully, uncode is completely seo-ready. with this feature, you are much more likely to be featured in a top google rankings position. site performance was maximized, drastically reducing loading times. with this lightning-fast speed, the customer’s time will never be wasted. it should also be mentioned that some gorgeous css3 animations were implemented. for more information about this theme, and how its features can improve your landing page, be sure to access the live preview. more info / download demo kalium kalium is a gorgeous and youthful, colorful and unique, imaginative and ambitious, highly responsive wordpress creative multipurpose portfolio and online shop website theme. this theme has been developed as a solution for a myriad of different problems across diverse website design cases and scenarios for a number of industries and applications. as such, it is equipped with a versatile set of professional quality tools, plugins and features to help you craft the website of your dreams every single time. the wpbakery page builder, layerslider and revolution slider premium plugins go a long way towards streamlining the layout creation and design process, while the woocommerce plugin suite is integrated to make short work of creating an onine retail platform. but kalium’s beautifully developed landing page template pages and demo websites make it a real standout within this field; kalium’s nimble, lightweight code is perfect for working under strained, massive server loads without batting an eyelid, while its wholly responsive coding based on bootstrap modular design philosophy makes it wonderfully cross-compatible among all devices and browsers, instantly expanding the sheer number of people who can visit your landing page website and thus your market share or user base. try kalium now, and watch the visitors roll in! more info / download demo thegem thegem is a gorgeous and modern, seamlessly built and professionally polished, enticing and responsive wordpress creative multipurpose website theme. this theme is a very admin user-friendly theme crafted with the flexibility and raw power to effortlessly service a multitude of usage cases and website applications with equal grace and utter ease of use. thegem achieves this by deploying a throng of carefully and professionally graphically designed conceptual demo websites and page templates, and with over 40 demos and over 150 template pages to choose from, you’re bound to find just what you’ve been looking for, every time. thegem is particularly well suited for performing as a landing page website. with the wpbakery page builder on board, customizing the end-user experience of your website is incredibly easy and fast, while the bootstrap modular design underpinning thegem guarantees high performance regardless of device or browser, making thegem natively mobile-friendly to the core and broadening the horizons of your possible audience. with amazingly convenient single page website options with a range of dynamic animations and transitions to keep things interested, on top of fully integrated woocommerce commercial features, thegem is ready to rock your landing page game. give thegem a go today and see for yourself! more info / download demo stratus stratus is a pliable and malleable website building toolkit that has been thoughtfully designed with the cardinal values of optimal user navigational experience and inherently smooth, sleek deployment of impressive, avant-garde web development technologies and protocols. it has been developed with extensive usage of w3c valid html5 coding and dynamic css3 animations and transitions, editable psd files, as well as seamless inclusion of engaging hardware-powered parallax visual effects and scrolling, which will fascinate audiences to no end. these features make stratus a perfect theme for landing page websites of any kind, from marketing campaigns to radio or television contests and sweepstakes, from coupon redemption to special offers or promotions—if you are a webmaster expecting a heap of incoming users from any unrelated service, business or project you are handling, stratus is the theme that knows how to receive that traffic and turn your landing page into a runaway hit! more info / download demo webify if you are pushing a product or you would simply like to take a different approach to present your project on the web, webify is the landing page wordpress theme for you. instead of running a multi-page website, everyone can get familiar with what you have to offer in just a few scrolls or swipes. indeed, webify is entirely responsive and mobile-ready, smoothly operating on all devices. additionally, it is also enhanced with the lightning-fast loading speed and search engine optimization. everyone will have a dope experience browsing your page, undoubtedly. webify comes with very many ready-to-use demo material, from home to inner pages, as well as different header and footer styles. you just mix and match and you are done. also, you can use the drag and drop method to make corrections and customize webify according to your needs and regulations. more info / download demo kallyas kallyas is a modern and technologically sharp, lightweight and efficient, easy to use and mobile-friendly, responsive wordpress multipurpose website theme. this theme is a malleable and highly intuitive, all-encompassing website building platform, a pliable solution for webmasters dealing with all sorts of websites across any number of industries and fields. kallyas is an ideal theme for webmasters looking for handsome and functional landing page website. beautiful hardware-powered parallax vertical and horizontal visual scrolling effects are available, convenient online store landing page templates for marketing campaigns and similar projects are readymade and functional out of the box, and with thoroughly modular, bootstrap based code, kallyas has superb performance and visual appeal across all platforms, devices, operating systems and browsers, making your reach truly universal. wpml plugin support allows you to reach users in their native languages, and much more under the hood. try kallyas now! more info / download demo massive dynamic massive dynamic is a highly attractive and navigationally intuitive, wonderfully easy to use and very modern and engaging, professionally designed and graphically polished and pristine, extremely responsive wordpress business and corporate multipurpose website builder. this theme is an amazing solution for webmasters far and wide across a whole spectrum of diverse applications and website archetypes, simplifying the website design and building process greatly while expanding your options and capabilities with its sophisticated suite of cutting edge features and elements. massive dynamic comes equipped out of the box with a plethora of impressive, professional-quality templates and entire demo websites with the most intuitive importation process in the market, and its unique live website builder provides a completely real-time interface for you to drag and drop shortcodes, elements, buttons, bars and anything else you want about your pages, with full control over the end-user visual experience every step of the way and requiring absolutely no coding at any point. massive dynamic’s included landing page demo websites feature some of the most engaging and resourceful interfaces this year, with such a depth of customization available, you will never find two massive dynamic landing pages that are the same. try massive dynamic now! more info / download demo leadengine leadengine is a modern, sharp and responsive wordpress multipurpose website theme. this theme is a flexible tool for putting together professional sites with ease. wpbakery page builder and over 30 demos offer a wealth of choices for every purpose. if it’s landing pages you’re looking for, you’re in luck. a mobile app, event, marketing, digital, payment landing pages and more are all available. each includes a polished, sleek presentation of every tool you need for your project. the developers also added dynamic sliders, smooth hovering animations, impressive portfolios, and far more others. 200+ custom shortcodes offer tons of powerful features you can drop anywhere. with countdowns, timers, pricing plans, and portfolios, leadengine packs the works. advanced settings options let you customize every element in its own unique way. make leadengine your own and brand it to exacting standards. deploy your landing page today and start converting that traffic! more info / download demo saasland promoting software, products or services on the web is not challenging when you gain access to saasland. as far as the landing page creation goes, saasland gives you the necessary equipment for realizing your dream online presence. of course, saasland is also 100% mobile-ready, cross-browser compatible, retina-friendly, as well as optimized for search engines and speed. in short, the performance of your website will always be of the highest degree regardless of the device and platform they use. along with multiple demos, saasland also has a ton of elements and features that will benefit you greatly. you can indeed entirely modify the default web designs and make them follow your branding regulations precisely. even if you are a complete beginner, you can still develop the must-have landing page thanks to the convenient elementor website builder. it offers a simple drag and drop process that requires no prior experience. kick things off on the web like a champ with saasland. more info / download demo bridge if you are promoting a product or a service, create a landing page style website and list down all its features and details to get more leads or buyers. with the power of wordpress and bridge theme, you can now establish such website relatively easily and quickly. using bridge as a landing page wordpress theme is very possible since it has multiple ready-made layouts that cater to the purpose of a landing page or one-page website. when refining the theme, you can benefit from bridge’s drag and drop builder which allows you to make adjustments without doing any advanced programming tasks. on top of that, the final product will also seamlessly readjust to all mobile devices and modern web browsers, ensuring a spectacular experience. look no further and get your marketing campaign going like a pro from the start. more info / download demo intact intact is a multipurpose wordpress theme with many specialized areas of interest. it has +10 demos and homepages to have quick start including landing page. intact landing page serves as a perfect conduct for product and publicity websites. the developers packed it with amazing image features to stand out. you will also get a strong built with wpbakery page builder with many integrated complements. intact landing page has a child theme and all recognized browsers compatibility. you have a wide selection of posting columns to have announcements made too. this theme is easy to customize and wpml translatable. intact landing page makes user experience comfortable with a clean and instinctive display. backgrounds allow several formats including videos and css3 animations! get clients to click on your page with strategic customized headers and footers. intact is seo and speed loading optimized. it also uses beautiful google fonts and can integrate typekit. also, layouts have awesome pre-built choices to choose from including different portfolio styles. intact land page comes with shortcodes that make backend admin panel easy to handle. you will get constant updates to get bug fixes and be on the latest! see for yourself this versatile theme ideal for your landing website! use intact landing page now! more info / download demo ekko creating a landing page to promote your saas business is a breeze when you gain access to ekko. after all, a full-blown demo is all set up and ready for you to put into play. with barely any work, you can now have a functional and attention-grabbing online space up and live, attracting new users. also, ekko guarantees mobile-readiness, cross-browser compatibility, retina-friendliness and impressive performance. additionally, you can also expect great search rankings due to seo optimization. you see, nothing to worry about, ekko covers it all out of the box. from video background, screenshot slider and static menu to pricing plans and accordions, this is just a small segment of the enormous collection of features ekko has in store for you. you can also start a blog and implement content marketing to welcome in even more business. go all in and have a proper landing page website ready for the launch sooner rather than later. more info / download demo foton the real power of foton is known only to those who use it. that’s right, i am sure you did not expect me to say that. this outstanding landing page wordpress theme is a pack of greatness that will help you sort our an online presence speedily. without really needing to be tech-savvy, you can now succeed at building a spectacular, modern and business-driven landing page that will help you increase sales, conversions or downloads. foton is fully compatible with both wpbakery and elementor page builders, offering you the complete creative freedom to forge the design that is exactly to your liking. with nine inspiring home page designs, you have more than enough variations that offer you a quick-start to something spectacular. while foton works excellently out of the box, of course, you can adjust and modify it without touching a single string of code. some other practical treats include slider revolution, mega menu, testimonials, smooth scrolling and woocommerce integration. for a small investment, you can now take your business or project to an entirely new degree with foton. more info / download demo landkit landkit is a new edgy and modern wordpress theme dedicated to landing pages of all areas. it brings you a customizable design with pre-built inner pages and one-click install. with 10 specialized demos and more on the way, you get to personalize your site easily. landkit also works smoothly with speed enhancement and clean code. it uses the awesome hybrid composer and megamenu. you will get over 100 advanced options with this last one. socanny built this theme on clean code. landkit has a flexible design that not only fits boxed or wide formats but also adjusts to one page or multipage. you will also find compatibility with cool high-quality add-ons like wpml and contact form 7. this way you get to interact in a much more controlled way with readers/clients. landkit is simply versatile and fun to use. play with several headers, footers and an optional top bar. you can find all kinds of icons including social media. this theme also supports masonry and grid styles so you can build amazing portfolios. backgrounds are customizable with images and videos too! give it a try and start with its documentation! make the best out of your landing stunts with landkit! more info / download demo startit avoid building a multi-page website and stick to a single-page layout aka landing page. this gives you the opportunity to present your startup, company, agency, as well as products and services, in one single location. your visitors do not need to jump from page to page to learn more about what you do instead just scroll up and down. to create such website, meet startit, a landing page wordpress theme. it is all in the bundle, available for you to benefit from and have a page up swiftly. 21 demos, custom shortcodes, blog and portfolio layouts, woocommerce compatibility and cool animations are just some of the treats that you can get your hands on. additionally, the drag and drop website builder makes sure you fine-tune your web space without the need to touch a single string of code. startit is also 100% translatable, responsive and optimized for search engines. the performance of the theme is indeed first-grade on all devices and platforms. more info / download demo leadcon you can invest all this time into creating the best multi-page website, or you can take things easy and super impactful with a landing page style site. if you are looking to save time yet still come out with a bang, let leadcon do its thing. this outstanding and multi-purpose tool is packed with goodies, features and functions that call for an immediate difference. leadcon comes with fifteen homes, over two hundred blocks, more than 150 pages and ten predefined headers. in the kit, you will also find the drag and drop page builder, elementor, for effortless customization. leadcon practices all the current trends and regulations of the modern web, too, so the performance is of the highest degree at all times. let leadcon take you on an epic adventure that will end up with a cracking website. more info / download demo binmp with three layouts and all the very many features and components, binmp promises a striking end product. this landing page wordpress theme is full of awesomeness that will get you going right away. with binmp, you also completely avoid doing the heavy lifting that comes in the form of programming. thanks to wpbakery, you do all the work with the method of dragging and dropping. even if without experience, you will still witness an excellent result. there are twelve pages in total for you to mix and match and set up a website that will help level up your project. some of the other features include slider revolution, ultimate addons for wpbakery, one click importer, contact form 7 and smooth animations. the design is responsive, cross-browser compatible and fast loading, too. more info / download demo opins while opins comes an ideal landing page wordpress theme out of the box, you can also utilize the tool for other projects and businesses. there are numerous ready-to-use page layouts at your disposal for quick realization of a dope and positively impactful online presence. when in need to promote your application and raise your user base to new heights, market it the right way with the use of opins. you have it all available, avoiding building a design from scratch altogether. indeed, opins comes with numerous features that will spice up the experience and ensure an unforgettable experience. with slider revolution, you can create attention-grabbing slideshows that will keep visitors around for longer. moreover, opins contains a sticky header, animated statistics, special effects, pricing plans, newsletter subscription form and back to top button. start with the right foot forward and benefit from opins now. more info / download demo crane crane is a super flexible wordpress theme. it requires no coding experience, but you will get it with a drag-and-drop page builder, wpbakery page builder. documentation and support are also provided. crane offers a collection of youtube tutorials, and its design suits everyone. although simple enough for the everyday user, it is highly customizable. play with tons of options, such as blogs, portfolios, and galleries. crane is very effective for landing page businesses, too. the package includes 150+ layouts, 25 professional clipart photos, 2,000 beautiful icons, and widget support. it also has a one-page format that simplifies the information display. crane can set up shops, custom posts, and more. for your marketing needs, you’ll get help from seven premium plugins integrated for free. other features are groovy menu customization, live previews, slider revolution and layer slider for awesome dynamic effects, and woocommerce integration for online shops. more info / download demo x – the theme it is refreshing and surprising to see a wordpress theme of this caliber. x is both efficient and well designed. currently, x is among few theme on wordpress that offers several distinct designs, rolled up into one package. stacks are what you call of these designs. users will get 4 unique variations. it is basically a small bundle, available for the price of only one theme. x is widget-ready, and it features retina ready graphics. if you choose to install this great theme, users can access your site regardless of their browser preference. if you encounter any issue, you can consult the extensive documentation. the support staff will be more than happy to help if the problems still persist. there are over 12 well-trained representatives that work full time, and dedicate themselves to the support and development of the product. the value/price ratio of this theme is staggering, especially if you consider the numerous plugins that were added for free. in addition, these are no third party elements that were lazily tacked on. they are personalized, unique extensions that were tailored to work with x. according to envato, this is the fastest-selling theme in wordpress history, proving that the developers have discovered a winning formula. even governments and large organizations has recognized the value of this product, and has acquired almost two dozen licenses. to call x impressive would be an understatement. technologically advanced and proud of it, it sets a new standard of innovation and uncompromising quality for all wordpress themes. more info / download demo folie folie is a high-quality wordpress of diverse uses. it comes with many demos of one-click install and child theme. the panel has been simplified and united with a front end design through page builder. folie uses wpbakery page builder with tons of its elements and it is bootstrap based. it also features compatibilities like mailchimp for newsletters and wpml to translate. you get to set up shops with woocommerce and galleries with revolution slider. folie is versatile with around 28 pages that include a blog and portfolio styles. you can upload posts in countless formats with ease. you can also feature animations and videos, files from css3 and html5. the developers even included documentation in hd video tutorials! folie has a particular professional-oriented vibe that makes it great for a showcase. it comes in an aesthetic, clean concept that provides readers comfort and serenity. you can even customize texts in incredible ways with fonts like font awesome or google fonts. folie has a particular logo builder and a grid-style for posts. you will get unlimited colors and pre-built options for footers and headers. the developers also featured awesome page to page communication and header navigation! start using this incredible builder, and you won’t find a reason to regret it! get folie! more info / download demo cryptoland investing in cryptocurrency is the trend nowadays. join the bandwagon by getting the cryptoland theme and start your own project. this landing page wordpress theme includes features that fit the crypto niche, whether you are a novice or an expert. get updated with the fluctuating price of bitcoin by using its exclusive features. put easily customizable files to upgrade your website’s visibility in search engines, too. cryptoland also comes with pixel-perfect graphics, enabling you to see your site in high quality. it is compatible with any device and browser for an always smooth operation. other features include unlimited sidebars, backgrounds and colors to create outstanding and remarkable ico landing pages. utilize all the available ready-made content and couple it with your signature style and branding. cryptoland also offers top-notch customer support to succeed at launching your crypto page effortlessly. more info / download demo sofbox when it comes to sofbox, your designs will be simple and clean, for real. this landing page wordpress theme focuses on minimalist designs, yet ensuring that you still get that professional and spectacular look. it has three homepage layouts in different styles and three headers with groundbreaking elements to choose from. sofbox exudes class and harmony which appeals to the eye of any customer. make the most of your website by utilizing this theme’s demo content and drag and drop page building feature. it also has an ultra-fast loading performance for expediency. additionally, make your software establishment more noticeable with a website that will market it correctly. also, create a landing page for your product or service that will stand the test of time and shine online. needless to say, all these features and more can put your website on top. more info / download demo startuply startuply is a versatile wordpress theme that can accommodate a variety of websites. it is ideal for the pages of ambitious startup companies, as it offers a wide array of features. additionally, customers will get an impressive package, as this theme has $80 worth of items. the revolution slider allows for the creation of impressive and informative slides, strung together with eye-catching transitions. startuply is easy to install, and anyone can surely use it. also, there is no difficulty curve, and no programming knowledge required. customers have the option to personalize preset content or to start their website from scratch. the developers also added canvas heading, allowing you to generate pretty image masked texts, and use innovative typography. there are 4 basic layouts for your home page, so choose the one that is right for you. the wpbakery page builder is very powerful, and custom shortcodes are available. they will also include new shortcodes in theme updates. the administration panel is flexible, while it maintains a great degree of user-friendliness. you can edit every single feature of your website, resulting in a unique page that will reflect your vision. you will be able to alter the appearance of menus, tweak smooth scrolling, to personalize typography and so on. more info / download demo stash stash is a wonderfully crafted multipurpose wordpress theme built for user comfort and flexibility. this theme is suited for any type of page building; a great match for product landing pages! it offers selling aspects with woocommerce and tons of visual appeal add-ons. it’s made with a responsive layout that offers tons of pre-built elements. it uses block builders with wpbakery page builder that make coding knowledge unnecessary. tons of visual appeal trades are also enhanced. stash has 7 portfolio pages and custom posts. you’ll get backgrounds at your full disposal to personalize. its high-quality featured plugins include slider revolution and essential grid, which allows you to play around with pictures. this is definitely a theme optimized for great performance in loading speed and search engines. it features parallax sections, multiple headers, dark/light skins and css3 animations. with all these, you get to customize according to your crowd and each niche interests. stash is cross-browser compatible and very mobile friendly with its mega menu. with its child theme and lots of start up documentation, expand your horizons on the internet era! pick up a project and make it real! go for stash landing page! more info / download demo aven the creators developed this theme to be a solid and robust tool for the design and construction of wonderful websites in a wide range of industries and fields. additionally, it contains a plethora of potent plugins, wily widgets and essential features for quickly creating truly mind-bogglingly complex websites that users can enjoy and make real use of. additionally, with a huge amount of creatively outfitted homepage demo websites for all sorts of niche and general market usage cases, aven is your best ally in crafting powerful online experiences. whether you are looking to blog away your thoughts in grids, columns or masonry layouts, showcase your professional accomplishments in jaw-dropping portfolio styles with imaginative visual effects, or amaze the world at large with your stunning high resolution photography in enveloping modern image galleries, aven has got you covered. incredible premium plugins like the wpbakery page builder, the revolution slider image slideshow, the woocommerce e-commerce plugin suite and the wpml plugin also make your aven website a sight to behold, an engaging experience and an intuitive ride for all involved. try aven today! more info / download demo incubator incubator is a modern wordpress multipurpose business website theme. additionally, it’s the result of a determined effort by a professional team of graphic designers and web developers seeking to produce a stable, intuitive platform for the seamless creation of engaging business websites that speak to a young, modern, tech-literate audience in a meaningful way and are capable of effectively introducing businesses old and new to fresh online markets and audiences across a multitude of demographics. incubator is inherently mobile-friendly, being based on the supple and lightweight bootstrap modular design, and with its mobile app demo website template, a world’s worth of one page, mobile-first visual design is at your fingertips following the simple single-click installation process. incubator is a perfect theme to build your landing page websites from, whether they are for digital marketing campaigns, reception of mobile app incoming traffic or simply a sleek single page presentation for your product or project, incubator has the tools for you to materialize what you visualize, including the awesome and powerful wpbakery page builder and revolution slider premium plugins. try incubator now, and feel the power! more info / download demo verko verko is a fitting wordpress theme for ambitious entrepreneurs. it is professional, modern, and easy to personalize. with verko, you can create a profitable and successful ecommerce site. it demands no programming knowledge, given that everyone can use it. this theme also makes full use of drag and drop technology, and you only need to select an element and drag it to its place. considering that user retention rates usually plummet after the first seconds of browsing, you have to make sure that those seconds count. this creates a huge demand for slides. additionally, they can proudly display the testimonials of previous clients, along with your top-rated products and services. moreover, verko has valuable, premium features, and yet it remains very affordable. as a site owner, you have the ability to alter every element in order to design something that conforms to your vision. you are also able to easily disable or enable personalized headers and backgrounds for your pages. verko makes sure to accommodate smartphone and tablet users. furthermore, you can display your content on any screen, regardless of its resolution or size. this also applies to high resolution retina screens. full responsiveness is great for customers and site administrators as well, considering that you can access that content from any location. more info / download demo avada if you need a website to disseminate information to a targeted audience, avada has the solutions for you. avada also includes numerous features and tools to help you create gorgeous landing pages for your apps or services. from carefully designed demos and templates, you can construct impressive, professional-looking pages with the fusion builder. moreover, you can uniquely customize and brand it with endless color and font choices among many more theme customization options. a cornucopia of shortcodes and block elements can be deployed for all sorts of effects, effectively monitoring your website’s traffic and gathering demographic information on your audience as easily as the scrolling is smooth, thanks to parallax scrolling with both image and video background sections are available. furthermore, your websites will be modern and responsive, thanks to html5, css3 and bootstrap providing fluid responses, animations, and transitions that look gorgeous on mobile and desktop devices, across platforms and browsers. make a landing page everyone wants to end up in with avada. more info / download demo landx landx is an elegant wordpress theme designed for creating an effective landing page for your product that converts website visitors to sales! this theme is very versatile and easy to tweak to match your marketing needs. the developers also designed this theme based on bootstrap framework. it is exceptionally responsive to any device such as desktop, tablets and mobile phones. this helps your potential clients easily access your website no matter what device they choose to use. additionally, landx features 4 homepage styles, 8 pre-defined color schemes, over 700 font icons pricing table and more features available. moreover, they coded this theme in html5 and css3 for more advanced multimedia integration and animation capabilities. furthermore, it includes mailchimp subscribe form to help you grow your mailing list. more info / download demo scalia the online market has forever changed the way that humans do business. additionally, no entrepreneur can ignore the potential of a well-designed website. also, scalia offers its customers a product that can help their site transcend mediocrity. using this theme, customers can now establish an impressive landing page for their product, app, service or software. additionally, scalia works well with the woocommerce plugin, and it has some enticing design options and extended layouts. with scalia, all customers can benefit from awesome built-in mega menus. the theme is also fully responsive and looks stunning on any mobile device. you can now easily personalize and create your page because the developers reduced its difficulty. this increased accessibility is due to the user-friendly drag&drop visual page builder. also, you don’t need any programming knowledge, and you can craft a site that suits your vision. search engine rankings equate to the popularity of the page. moreover, scalia is seo-ready, as it aims to increase organic traffic from google search. in addition, your content will be easily-translatable thanks to its wpml multilingual plugin support. this is the right theme for those looking for a nice landing page. they could combine this later with store, portfolio, gallery, blog and other sections as the theme can handle them all. finally, if you haven’t decided if this theme is the right one for you you can read this review. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. appsbootstrapflat design themeslanding pageone pagesales pagewoocommerce share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts top 21 lifestyle blog wordpress themes 2020 if you are reading this article you are that person, who would like to launch… beautiful wordpress dating themes or community themes powered by buddypress here is a stunning collection of the best wordpress dating themes for dating websites with… 36 most popular and unique wordpress themes for startups, companies, blogs and portfolio 2020 if you are looking for completely unique and interactive wordpress themes for the next project… 32 top transportation & logistics wordpress themes 2020 looking for a wordpress theme for transportation and logistics-related website? these wordpress themes are exactly… the best housekeeping wordpress themes for your future website if you find it difficult to pick the best option among all the best housekeeping wordpress themes on the market we will help you! 51 best responsive woocommerce wordpress themes to build awesome estore 2020 let's look at best woocommerce themes for any ecommerce category. we have selected themes with… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 51 best responsive woocommerce wordpress themes to build awesome estore 2020 next post: 60+ best personal & business portfolio wordpress themes to showcase your work – 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×