skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 30+ best seo friendly wordpress themes for company, ecommerce, blog, affiliate and adsense websites 2020 30+ best seo friendly wordpress themes for company, ecommerce, blog, affiliate and adsense websites 2020 january 14, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 172 comments there is a 91% chance that you found this page by looking on google for “best seo wordpress themes”. and since we are on top of serps for that keyphrase we feel obligated to speak about seo and how wordpress themes can help you achieve first page rankings on google and other major search engines. what makes wordpress theme seo friendly? a simple code base that is fast and scores high on google pagespeed insights, properly used meta tags, good schema markup, and additional seo controls to change how your content appears in google. importance of seo of course, each company has specific algorithms for its search engines, and they are considered trade secrets. however, the overall principles are universal. based on keyword density, proliferation and personal history of the account, the results pages are generated. imagine that you own a site that is not search engine optimized. your website would show up on the 5th or 6th results page, and most users rarely bother to look past the first. in these conditions, only personal friends and people who have memorized your address can access your site. it used to be the case that a user needed to hire a professional company to optimize his page, but now it is considered a default service. if you are purchasing a quality wordpress theme, it must be seo friendly, and you should not settle for less. it does not matter what your business is. everything from massive corporate pages to a simple review site or blogs, need exposure to survive, and this exposure can only be achieved through optimization. that is probably the greatest advantage of the web: equality. in the real world, you would need tens of millions of dollars to run a successful marketing campaign, while the web version of that campaign can cost significantly less. it is the great equalizer, making small business and large conglomerates, sit at the same table. the initial package will be optimized for search engines, but your future posts won’t be. if you do not want to involved ghostwriters, you must learn how to ingrate keywords at specific locations, and in specific densities in order to compete. that being said, let’s take a look at some of the best seo friendly wordpress themes: jevelin jevelin is a technologically ambitious and fresh-faced, engaging and business-friendly, modern and responsive wordpress premium multipurpose website theme. a thorough and resourceful platform that greatly streamlines the website development process for everyone. with jevelin, setting up your own personal blog is every bit as easy as showcasing your professional portfolio to employers and potential clients the world over, or introduce your corporation to the world as quickly and effortlessly as you can set up an online shop for your business. featuring essential and advanced commercial capabilities powered by the woocommerce ecommerce plugin suite, jevelin is a natural salesman and can easily market your wares or those of your affiliates to massive online audiences within a few easy clicks, the same day you set up through the uncomplicated single click installation. additionally, the seo enhancements have been implemented from the codebase up, making jevelin websites high performers when it comes to climbing the search engine rankings overnight, significantly expanding your user base, increasing your traffic and maximizing your ad revenue within the blink of an eye. try jevelin today, and start reaping the benefits of true seo enhancements on your very own website! more info / download demo gillion (trending item) gillion is a multifaceted wordpress theme oriented to blogs and magazines. it has numerous demos and amazing customer support. you will get it with 7 pre-launched demos of one-click install. gillion uses unyson framework but it is bootstrap compatible too. it has a super customizable layout with its own live customizer to change things in real-time! friendly with a header with social icons integrated and unlimited colors to set up. gillion is seo improved and it is supported by google analytics. what else do you need? come on now and try out this awesome specialized tool! come try gillion! more info / download demo soledad soledad is a modern seo wordpress blog and magazine theme. a purposefully constructed theme that is intended as a one-stop-shop solution for everyone to quickly design seo friendly websites across a broad spectrum of interests and fields. built around the wordpress live customizer tool, letting you craft your own pages within minutes through a visual process that is both intuitive and easy to master, while including over 250 options for you to customize every aspect and element of your website with utter speed and simplicity. with seo at the codebase, meaning that search engine crawlers will always find your relevant content, keywords, and metadata in the right order and presentation to maximize your impact on the search ranks, netting you a ton of additional traffic in no time at all, which is then easily monetized thanks to soledad’s thorough adsense integration. start making a dent, with soledad! more info / download demo divi divi is an seo optimized wordpress theme that you can employ for any purpose. the rules and limitation truly are none when you decide to start working with divi. this prominent multipurpose theme follows all the latest trends and regulations, ensuring stable and smooth operation of your website. while there are countless layouts and features you can utilize out of the box, you can still customize everything and fine-tune it to your branding needs. and you do not need to change a single string of code to modify divi. powerful and user-friendly theme settings, an endless collection of elements, an array of jaw-dropping demos and the list of goodies goes on and on. with divi, you can go as creative as you want and enter the industry with a bang. more info / download demo magplus magplus is a modern and responsive seo friendly wordpress blog and magazine theme. this theme is a potent platform for articulating attractive, creative websites in a flash. you don’t need to know a thing about coding to get professional quality results with magplus. with a visual design interface and 150 elements to deploy, customization is effortless. impress your audience with 20 slick sliders, 25 article layouts and 12 header layouts. magplus offers an infinite array of layout styles you can mix and match to your heart’s content. magplus is a competent performer across the major search engines. extensive seo optimization makes magplus a perfect platform to drive traffic home. broaden your audience and reach a massive, global crowd with magplus. easy translation and responsiveness let you reach users on every language and device. magplus has the tools you need to succeed! get magplus today! more info / download demo marketing pro marketing pro is a powerful and responsive wordpress seo and internet marketing theme. the perfect platform developing business-savvy websites in a flash. with flexible widgets and 9 different ready-made templates, building your website is easy. you won’t need a lick of coding to get sharp, professional results in no time at all. the wpbakery page builder lets you style and customize your layouts with utter ease and speed. the convenient convert plug popup lets you capture vast amounts of new users effortlessly. many of marketing pro’s templates are dedicated to increasing your email conversions. you will building email lists like you never have before. additionally, this theme is a sharp seo framework that will skyrocket your website’s performance. your content will get top-notch rankings in the blink of an eye with marketing pro’s sleek design. nobody can place your content out there like marketing pro can. your traffic will go through the roof within days of setting up shop with marketing pro. and with the woocommerce platform and tons of monetization capabilities, your revenues will soar. marketing pro is everything you need to make it in the competitive world of seo marketing. try marketing pro today, and find out! more info / download demo webify with the versatility and high adaptability of webify, you can, of course, expect it to be a top-notch seo optimized wordpress theme. you can employ webify for all and any website you would like to bring into being. this could be a page for a lawyer, a freelancer, a small business, an agency or an online store, the options are there. out of the box, webify comes with twenty remarkable demos for a quick start of a fresh new website. no need to complicate, just stick with the sample that fits your taste, as it is already a full-blown solution. moreover, webify is also optimized for speed, 100% mobile-ready and in tune with all the popular web browsers. the customization capabilities also go through the roof, allowing you to edit and adjust just about any section of webify. with webify, you are readier than ever, to execute a first-class, seo-ready page. more info / download demo seo wp if you are looking for a wordpress theme with a high degree of flexibility that was specifically created for seo companies, digital marketing agencies and social media expert sites, look no further than seo wp. it includes a limitless number of page designs, plenty of header styles, and a wide range of footer layouts. it is very intuitive and easy to use, as it was designed for everyone, not just programmers and coders. the customer is able to personalize the aesthetic of his site in real-time, viewing changes as they are implemented. this live customizer is a huge time saver, and a great tool for creativity. despite its low price, the developers have included premium plugins such as the live composer page builder, for no additional fee. using this tool, you can modify pages in front end by simply moving things around, and dragging and dropping them. one of the greatest things about this product is that it never stagnates or becomes outdated. the developers constantly tweak and improve it, adapting to new challenges as they arise. for example, in the context of the last update, the developers have added a feature that lets you take advantage of the massive potential offered by social media. they have also integrated ppc management, web development and design, and an additional 8 illustrations for seo services. it is very fast, as the home page can load in less than 3 seconds. more info / download demo goodlife goodlife is a customizable seo friendly wordpress magazine theme. a wholly creative and fabulously user-friendly wordpress theme designed specifically to meet and exceed the demands of modern magazine websites. decked out with a whole slew of impressive technological features and capabilities, ranging from smooth and sleek plugins, sliders and layouts to powerful and convenient shortcodes, relevant and on point widgets, completely predesigned and preconfigured demo websites fully outfitted with all their inner content pages and dummy content, and much more. additionally, a ton of truly outstanding functionalities, from interactive and fast-loading video playlists to enthralling and delightful ajax pagination options with the most seamless transitions in the market today, along with an enormously broad range of choice as far as headers, galleries, footers and similar, related pages and sections go. outclassing the competition when it comes to search engine optimization, though, with its incredibly clean code that search engines love and index to the top of the ranks in no time at all! more info / download demo massive dynamic massive dynamic is a uniquely responsive wordpress creative multipurpose website builder. a spectacularly convenient website builder, capable of handling a very broad range of needs and requirements across a huge spectrum of websites. deploying the impressive real-time live website builder, massive dynamic combines settings customization, shortcode configuration and layout crafting in a single, sleek interface that is both powerful and intuitive. over 70 shortcodes are packed along with massive dynamic for your convenience, and a treasure trove of template websites and pages is readily available for import, plugins, shortcodes and settings included. inherently seo enhanced codebase provides a rock-solid foundation for any online entrepreneur with a mind for monetizing to build a business on top of. with massive dynamic’s capabilities for online commerce, through incredibly designed, beautifully innovative online shop layouts, combined with its great seo performance, placing your products highly on the relevant rankings and cashing in is easier than ever before. attractive ajax features such as live search or the impressive notification center, integrated with shopping carts and all, make this the best-rounded builder of seo, marketing and affiliates websites on the market. more info / download demo seo engine seo engine is a wordpress theme dedicated to digital market agencies. it is the perfect provider for software developers and tech companies in general. it offers 12 homepages half and a half for one page and multipage designs. a great admin panel, which as expected is seo enhanced. it features a flexible layout with 5 preset headers, 2 portfolio pages and many variations for each. grids and sliders, unlimited color mixing and live customizer are also found. seo engine is modern, clean and sober in its concept. it provides customization options via the redux options framework and page building using wpbakery page builder. you will find tons of typography options between google web fonts and font awesome icons. this theme can set shops with woocommerce, and translate with wpml. it is compatible with contact form 7, and uses premium layer slider. it is all screens and browsers compatible (entirely mobile friendly). additionally, this works with high-resolution formats and includes a child theme. it has lots of versatility on headers and posts arranging layouts. you can set grids and lists of all kinds. it also has free lifetime updates, a premium support team, and lots of documentation. get it easy, quick and with just one click! get seo engine! more info / download demo simple & elegant simple & elegant is a dashing and fast-loading wordpress seo blog theme. a beautiful and functional theme that has been decked out with a slew of professionally designed and styled tools, features, widgets and shortcodes, featuring an equally dazzling, vibrantly fresh-faced and youthful, clean visual design. you can easily deploy all of these through the powerful wpbakery page builder tool, and further style things yourself with the live customizer and advanced theme options. the groundbreaking theme that challenges modern website design philosophies with a cohesive and visually integrated approach to websites, that users can navigate following their intuition with ease and that webmasters can create with speed and effortlessness. capable of handling modern features such as html5 youtube and vimeo thumbnail video posts, audio, video and gallery portfolios and gorgeous slider revolution integration, as well as mailchimp and instagram custom-styled widgets out of the box, simple & elegant is a theme for tomorrow’s websites, with timeless aesthetics and modern technologies to boot. more info / download demo boostup for anyone who is searching the web for the most promising and easy to use seo-optimized wordpress theme, you came to the right place. not only is boostup seo-friendly, but it is also a tool perfect for seo marketing agencies and freelancers. the included eight home page samples are out of this world, each unique and creative in its own way. but home demos are just a small portion of the whole bundle of goodness that boostup has in store for you. needless to say, boostup is also responsive, retina-ready, cross-browser compatible and optimized for fast loading speed. other amenities of boostup consist of drag and drop technology, slider revolution, woocommerce integration, blog and portfolio pages, loads of plugins and shortcodes, well, you get the gist of it. indeed, boostup is a pack of amazingness that will do you and your business exceptionally well. more info / download demo topseo topseo is a competent and uniquw wordpress seo and digital marketing website theme. a wonderful framework for the uncomplicated and fast creation of top-notch websites that perform well with search engine ranking, traffic generation, and ad revenue increase. the result of a lengthy study of the fundamental principles of search engine optimization that has concluded in a sleek and purposeful set of tools honed to perfectly provide you with all the tools, features and capabilities your website needs in order to truly succeed in the seo game and make it big in terms of audience and revenue. outfitted with an intuitive visual interface that makes customizing and branding your website an easy, breezy task that requires nothing but a few clicks and includes thousands of possible combinations, each perfected for optimal seo performance. built on the latest web development technologies, topseo deploys an advanced html5 codebase to empower you to use an array of multimedia features and options, as well as dynamic css3 coding that brings your pages alive with animation and utter mobile-friendliness powered by bootstrap. try topseo today! more info / download demo newsmag pro newsmag pro is a simple and intuitive wordpress premium multipurpose magazine website theme. with newsmag pro, visual and graphical customization is a worry-free, uncomplicated visual process with deep-running capabilities easily fine-tuned through advanced theme settings. amazing features such as endless customizable sliders and carousels are readily available for you to keep your users engaged with your content while allowing you to drive traffic to your recent or trending posts with utter ease, powered by cutting-edge ajax technologies which also underpin newsmag pro’s potent custom pages and search features. extensively documented, making full use of each of newsmag pro’s built-in resources and capacities is an easy matter, while thoughtful, dedicated support is available for any doubts that may remain. built on bootstrap, newsmag pro is mobile-friendly and inherently cross-compatible. try newsmag pro today! more info / download demo hongo when starting an ecommerce website, you want to have it all in perfect order. that said, you would want to go with an seo optimized wordpress theme, like hongo, that takes care of all the technicalities out of the box. along with google-friendliness, hongo is also fast loading, compatible with modern web browsers, responsive and retina-ready. hongo ensures an overall exceptional performance that will knock everyone’s socks off. different demos, tons of easily integrable elements, killer inner pages, blog, slider revolution, you name it, hongo has it all and then some. when in the process of making an online store, all you need is hongo, and everything else instantly becomes history. you will find it nothing missing in the hongo kit. of course, it teats you to every possible ecommerce layout and element for a flawless operation. get on board and enjoy the remarkable outcome sooner rather than later. more info / download demo bridge no doubt, the gigantic bridge theme follows all the latest trends and regulations. of course, it is an seo optimized wordpress theme that includes hundreds of ready-made concept layouts. to be more exact, bridge comes with over 376 demos which cover just about any niche and industry you can think of. agency, food, travel, medical, photography, music, freelancer, online store and blog websites is just a small percentage of different pages you can establish with bridge. that said, even if you work on several projects, all you really need is one theme and you can create a bunch of entirely different websites. the features are very many as well. from advanced search function, social media integration and infographic elements to automatic updates, smooth animations and powerful admin dashboard, bridge has it all and a ton more. you better visit its live preview page and let it blow you away. more info / download demo brixton brixton is a youthful and attractive, colorful and sleek, engaging and inventive, aesthetically accomplished and readily responsive wordpress modern creative blog website theme. a uniquely aesthetically aware theme that has been developed with a keen focus on look, feel and behavior, intending to provide not merely a functional, efficient blogging platform, but also a wholly customizable, entirely professionally designed end user experience that is enveloping and memorable. to achieve this, brixton breaks from the usual layout schemes often seen around the web in favor of very modern and seamless dynamic layouts, such as adaptable grids and masonry layouts with ajax powered filtering and category aggregation happening live before your visitors’ eyes, creating marvelously tiled arrangements that make brilliant use of your whitespace to leave nothing unsaid. in both boxed and fullscreen presentations, brixton never fails to make an impression, with clean cut visuals and deft management of multimedia content, high resolution imagery and icons wherever you turn and much more under the hood. advanced post formatting options let you customize your postings even more, making them stand out uniquely from the bunch. engaging sliders, transfixing transitions and bewildering vistas are the norm for this beautiful blogging theme. get creative with brixton! more info / download demo kallyas kallyas is a dynamic and modern creative wordpress ecommerce multipurpose website theme. crafted with the utmost attention to detail, kallyas is a sophisticated website-building toolkit. webmasters find in kallyas a reliable platform to suit their every need. the visual builder, packed with demos, templates and elements, keeps things simple. the gorgeous revolution slider increases your content exposure and engagement. showcase your finest and trending articles with convenient widgets. build your online store in a day with the powerful woocommerce. a versatile seo features secure your rapid ascent through search engine results. drive up your traffic overnight and hit all the right keywords with kallyas. intuitive, thorough written and video documentation is available explaining every nook and cranny. whatever you still need help with, professional customer support will take care of. let kallyas boost your performance today! more info / download demo be theme be theme is a solidly constructed and very laboriously designed, professional and engaging, modern and responsive wordpress multipurpose website theme. the ultimate wordpress website building platform; it’s been tooled with the goal of meeting and exceeding the expectations of users. to that end, be theme has been developed to be a truly massive theme. with over 220 professionally predesigned, prebuilt websites provided for your convenience, be theme always has something up its sleeve that is simply perfect for your purposes, whatever those may be. affiliate marketing websites, digital marketers, and related industries love using be theme because of its superb collection of niche market website demos that have been polished for multiple, specific applications, yet retain a completely cutting-edge approach to search engine optimization, with enhancements applied in a slender, lightweight manner from the codebase up, making every nook and cranny of a be theme website a completely seo enhanced element on its own, and part of a larger, well-indexed whole. topping the ranks for all the relevant keywords is the order of the day for be theme. expand your audience, increase your traffic and fatten your revenue, with be theme! try it today! more info / download demo qube for the most part, pretty much every wordpress theme that you find on the market today is built with seo in mind. qube is a killer multi-purpose alternative that you can employ for all sorts of businesses and projects. the tool works great for building agency, startup, hosting, freelancer, life coach, portfolio, photography and cafe websites, to name a few. of course, you can easily step things up and unlock even more options and possibilities with elementor. it is a drag and drop page builder that offers everyone to create the exact page that they want. qube is compatible with all the modern web browsers, devices, popular plugins and retina screens. once you build a page, it is a guarantee that it will operate without a hitch across all devices and platforms. trigger everyone’s interest with an online presence that will stand out from the masses. more info / download demo seoes not only is seoes a great alternative for building a marketing agency website, but it is also an seo optimized wordpress theme. with the bundle of predefined demos, you can kick things off on the web in a little breeze. in addition to all the index samples, seoes also includes a horde of internal page layouts for your convenience. while you can mix and match the available, you can also introduce your creative touch via the drag and drop page builder. of course, without the need to write code. other features of seoes are slider revolution, touch sensitivity, sticky navigation, animations, pricing plans and on scroll content loading. out of the box, seoes practices all the latest trends and regulations that will put your right on top with a smooth running page. spread the word out in style and market your services like a pro. more info / download demo neomag neomag is an seo optimized wordpress theme for building nearly any online magazine or newspaper website that you fancy. it even comes with a bunch of different demos that will get you going right away. with the clean, modern and distraction-free layout, the chance is high that you would want to use neomag exactly as is. it is a fully active tool, after all, offering you a quick start of a fresh new online project. but tailoring it to your needs and requirements is possible, too. there are loads of goodies that come alongside the stunning design. smooth page loading, rtl support, sticky sidebar, six headers, custom colors and superb monetization. whether you would like to go niche or general, with neomag, you can approach it all with confidence. investigate live demos first and never look back. more info / download demo tower if you are a person who appreciates quality, you should consider tower. this impressive wordpress theme can enhance your site, and improve the design of its layout. for those who are first-time website owners, an online documentation source was included. it contains information about every theme feature, and it can act as an installation tutorial. the support forum can also be consulted, if any issues occur. this forum has many helpful and friendly members, and a series of informative topics. online page improvement and customization is possible via the online template builder tool. this guarantees that customers can design something that matches their vision. if you are short on time, pre-made content can be your best friend. this theme has 18 incredible demos. every demo can be implemented with ease, thanks to the one-click import function. from start to finish, site creation can be finalized in a matter of minutes. in addition, your page layout will be responsive in regards to hand-held devices. this opens up the market, eliminating resizing issues that would have otherwise ruined your follower’s browsing experience. if you wish to learn more about tower and its features, be sure to check out the live theme preview. more info / download demo spin seo spin seo is a business-oriented wordpress theme. it comes with tons of awesome premium plugins and a one click demo install. it also features 2 home pages and many variations for blogs and project pages. even a child theme is included! spin seo suits well all professional levels with a smooth, sober, clean and modern concept. it uses wpbakery page builder and revolution slider and it is even contact form 7 compatible. you will get it ready for translation with wpml and customizable with shortcodes. it uses google fonts for typography and offers really cool color palettes. a highly committed team for 24/7 customer support is also available. a versatile for different environments of work and very malleable. it has awesome transitions and parallax effects for backgrounds. you will get it with html5 and ccs3 files too. a practical smart choice for all business that is looking to personalize their site. it will provide quick formulas and creative pre-built designs. add widgets, banners or pictures and take advantage if its high-resolution support. get this awesome theme right away and you won’t regret it! get spin seo! more info / download demo brando brando is an elegant and easy to use wordpress single page theme. a tech-savvy platform where webmasters can seamlessly design and develop their own responsive, modern seo friendly single page websites. renowned for its remarkable performance with search engines. indeed, brando’s powerful seo enhancements have been implemented at every level from the code up, making for a website that both quickly ascends the pages and ranks of all the major search engines and loads quickly and efficiently due to its lightweight, spartan coding, making it easy on the servers even under high traffic loads. perfect for online marketing websites, business and corporate websites and many more niches. try brando today, and find out! more info / download demo pofo pofo is a modern and resourceful responsive wordpress creative multipurpose website theme. an intuitive solution for users of any skill level to craft eloquent websites. dozens of demos and hundreds of templates ensure pofo always has the right fit for your needs. the wpbakery lets you fine-tune every nook and cranny of your pages to your every whim. perfect for introducing content or catalogues to audiences. cutting-edge visual effects and technologies set pofo apart from the pack. your visitors won’t soon forget the trendsetting stylings of your pofo website. integrating yoast! seo, pofo is an seo conscious theme that helps you increase traffic overnight. the mailchimp plugin handles all your subscription newsletter needs. staying in touch with your audience has never been easier. no matter your niche or industry, pofo will help you conquer the market! more info / download demo paperio paperio is a sharp and responsive wordpress multipurpose blog website theme. a modern and impressive set of tools for creating effective blogs. strapped with the most powerful technology, paperio gets things done with speed. get things going with 7 unique, fleshed out demo website templates. mix and match layout styles and elements through a visual interface. customize your colors, fonts and styles in a couple of clicks. tons of widgets connect your audience with your content. featured post sliders, latest posts, popular posts and more. the sharp ajax technology underpins its rapid modern features. with extensive seo enhancements, paperio is a top-notch performer across search engines too. improvements to the code make paperio websites parse seamlessly through search algorithms. your content will be up front and center of all the relevant searches. this in turn lets you drive your traffic through the roof overnight. and with convenient ad blocks, monetizing that traffic is simple and effortless. once you’ve got the traffic, you want the speed. a fast-loading theme that’s always easy on your servers. impressive technology optimizes image loading for each user and device screen size. and without losing any quality! popularize your content, with paperio! more info / download demo seo crawler seo crawler is a highly specialized wordpress theme. the creators built this theme to empower agencies and digital markets or websites with a fast and pre-built design easy to set. it comes with 3 unique demos and many subpages customizations. a goodlayers based and features a well-known drag & drop page builder. set up amazing slides, videos and more multimedia with slider revolution and ilightbox. 8 posting formats are available including videos, links, galleries and audio. with pre-built variations for footers and headers to make distinctive looks. it even gives you an optional top bar that you can enable for social media. with its live customizer, you can rearrange everything in real-time! with features customizable colors, skins, backgrounds and typography. you get preset google fonts, a personal font uploader, unlimited colors, and even single portfolio pages. you will even get full compatibility with major plugins like yoast seo and w3 total cache. additionally, this theme have 30+ amazing pre-built options for blogs, portfolio or gallery layouts. pages to provide different services are also completely customizable. the theme, in general, is in fact fully responsive and adaptable to all screens and devices. get it right away with automatic updates! use seo crawler! more info / download demo schema the developers claim that this is the fastest wordpress theme, and that is not entirely unfounded. most internet users give up on a specific page if it refuses to load, or loads slowly. that is the blessing, and the curse of the online commerce world: there are always alternatives. as a business owner, you risk losing traffic to your competitors you don’t optimize your content. thankfully, schema is refreshingly quick, and it only takes a few seconds for everything to fill your screen. the developers made it well documented, with extensive information available at the click of a button. this opens up the gates for less experienced users that wish to personalize their site, and turn it into something that not only generates revenue, but also expresses their unique vision. you can complete most of the required operations for the setup process with just a single click. this large amount of user-friendliness will definitely work in your favor as you navigate the menu options. also, is you decide to purchase schema, you are not settling for a single product. it is not uncommon for quality wordpress themes to receive constant updates, as the content needs to adapt to an ever-changing landscape. moreover, you can solve every eventual bug, error or glitch via free downloadable content. same also goes for the support system. all clients will receive the unrelenting aid of thee developers, which pledge to guide them through any process, and help them solve any issue. more info / download demo independent independent is a fantastic and easy to use seo friendly wordpress theme for any type of blog or online magazine you would like to create. with loads of ready-to-use demos, you can start your online journaling journey sooner rather than later. independent also contains samples for cryptocurrency, technology, food, travel, sports, organic and numerous other niche websites. besides, each sample is also entirely customizable for you to tailor it to your needs precisely. with this spectacular multi-purpose theme, anyone becomes a pro at coding and designing. indeed, there is no need to have any prior experience to work with independent – anyone can do it! thanks to the drag and drop technology, modifying existing layouts and creating new ones is a piece of cake. independent is also entirely monetizable for you to earn money while pushing compelling articles. more info / download demo crocal the limits are barely any when you set on crocal. working with this seo optimized wordpress theme is quick and straightforward. not only that, but you can craft a professional and sophisticated website even if you have zero technical and design background. how cool is that? first, you pick between a solid collection of ready-made samples that go from online shop and creative agency to portfolio, fitness and photographer websites to name a few. crocal has a responsive layout to make sure your website works seamlessly across all devices (web browsers, too!). you can use crocal for blogging and selling products online just as well. in short, whatever your heart desires, crocal can help you realize it. the potential of crocal is massive so make sure you benefit from its powerful features and take your project to the next level. more info / download demo yosemite yosemite is an aesthetically appealing theme that is sure to impress any user, and attract plenty of views for your site. it takes its inspiration from the mac yosemite, and it integrates a completely responsive design. the developers thought out every single element in this theme, designed to maximize your chances of reaching online fame. are you considering a purchase but you are not sure about its quality? no problem! as the developers of yosemite have added a very useful demo that can help you form an opinion without any financial risk. the user engagement levels are off charts, as this theme is compatible with wp review pro, a newsletter plugin and megamenu. it should be mentioned that it is also optimized for adsense, granting the client a greater degree of readability, and access to some informative page reviews. the theme’s site also has some screenshots, so feel free to check those out. a very beautiful, even among other well-designed wordpress themes. it takes a page from the book of apple’s osx yosemite, integrating a clean and polished look that alludes an aura of elegance. moreover, this theme got the looks and quite well optimized. they placed every element of the user interface to where it needs to be. this can give a highly intuitive navigation experience. you will also be free from confusion and you can surely know what you’re doing next. these are not just claims, as the developers decided to put their money where their mouth is, and analyze the rate of user engagement. they found that the responsive and intuitive layout resulted in a very high involvement rate, when compared to other competing themes from the same niche. more info / download demo amax if you are looking for a versatile wordpress theme that boasts an impressive roster of practical features, be sure to check out amax. the developers intended this theme to accommodate all web pages, regardless of their field of activity. amax will include the adaptable wpbakery page builder plugin, in addition to 15 new content elements that can enhance any user’s browsing experience. it also features the extension of a few default settings: row fancy edges, colors, animations, row backgrounds, and so on. the theme offers several options for you page titles, such as background color, preset parallax effects, and images. you can modify each of these according to your will. the theme also offers 3 different layouts for headers, and the choice to apply a transparent or personalized background. if you wish to learn more about this amazing theme, be sure to view the theme overview video explanation. running for only 4 minutes, it will showcase amax’s most important features. they also added some beautiful screenshots and a live preview. lastly, you can look at these features of you wish to purchase one of the best wordpress themes on the market. for more information about amax theme, you can read this review. more info / download demo newsmag if you are looking for a high tech wordpress theme that can help in boosting traffic for your web site, look no further than newsmag. with this theme, writing articles and maintaining a successful blog is child’s play, and the developers are ready to offer excellent support. you can fit this template for magazine, newspaper, news, review sites, personal blogs and publishing sites. if you wish to integrate youtube content into your posts, you are able to do so, while receiving feedback from a rudimentary review system. newsmag loads your page very fast, a rare feat given a lot of features that it includes. from the ground up, the developers optimized it for search engines. this feature increases the chance of your site to be on the top of the search engine charts. let’s face it, if you site appears on the third or fourth page, it is basically anonymous. depending on your primary monetization method, you might not rely on advertising revenue, but those extra funds will be a welcomed addition. this product is able to support adsense and google ads. new to the online world? or are you not familiar with the setup process? well, you do not have to worry because the developers have introduced an informative series of online videos that explain everything in detail. with your purchase, you will also gain access to six distinct stacks that can facilitate the setup process. you can initiate these stacks by accessing the theme panel, and you can personalize them at any time by modifying the layouts, fonts and colors. more info / download demo north similar to artists, those who work in the ecommerce field are often forced to come up with innovative and creative ways of selling their products. of course, your website can provide a commercial portal, but it can also act as a primary means of advertising and marketing. given the pivotal role that a well-designed website plays, the need for a proper commercial wordpress theme becomes apparent. as far as this theme go, you can be sure that north is one of the best. the developers also filled it with useful features and design options. moreover, it has background customizers that let you change the color of your page without effort. furthermore, the account pages are astounding, offering a very impressive experience even for those that are veterans of themeforest. overall, this beautifully designed theme deserves your precious time and attention. more info / download demo route this is a very responsive, minimalistic and retina ready theme for wordpress. along with powerful user options, the developers also implemented features that can result in an almost limitless amount of possibilities for users. despite the reasonable price tag, route compensates by offering a large amount of content. in addition, the developers have also added expensive premium features, free of charge. users can also take advantage of limitless color options, over 600 google fonts and plenty of shortcodes. moreover, you will have all of the tools required for the creations of a successful online page. you do not have to be an experienced coder or programmer. also, you can simply pick it up and start. however, if at some point you will experience issues, be sure to consult their informative high definition series of explanatory videos. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. adsensebootstrapbusinesscreativeresponsiveseowoocommercewordpress themes share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts 20 furniture wordpress themes for manufacturers, stores and interior designers 2020 have lots of orders and a lack of time to meet the deadlines? this collection… top 20 best sport and athlete coaching wordpress themes 2020 while everyone’s needs are different, sport and athlete coaching wordpress themes try to appeal to everybody with their robust functionality. 20 best lead generation wordpress themes to boosts sales 2020 one of the greatest keys to a successful business is the lead generation. apparently, businesses… 31 best hotel wordpress themes with incredible design & functionality 2020 here you will find the best hotel wordpress theme with an automated booking system for… 2019 most creative and unique wordpress themes to differentiate yourself form the online noise if you’re looking for the most creative and unique wordpress themes, then chances are you… 21 best & flexible wordpress instagram themes 2020 with our collection of the best and most flexible wordpress instagram themes, it will be… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 38 best health & medical wordpress themes for hospitals, doctors, clinics & blogs 2020 next post: 37 best wordpress themes with rtl support 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×