worksheets all topics a-z grammar vocabulary speaking reading listening writing pronunciation virtual classroom articles posters books more worksheets by season 600 creative writing prompts warmers, fillers & ice-breakers coloring pages to print flashcards classroom management worksheets emergency worksheets revision worksheets resources we recommend busyteacher home » teaching ideas » flashcard sets free flashcard sets repetition is a powerful tool for learning certain things in a new language. while you certainly don’t want to overdo it, running through a list of vocabulary words, verb forms, or idioms with your students can help smooth over some of their trouble spots, and increase their confidence about speaking and writing what they’ve learned. when balanced with a variety of other speaking, reading, writing, and listening activities, memorization drills can prove to be powerful tools in your teaching arsenal. so what’s the best way to get your students to rehearse a list of words or phrases that they’ve just got to get memorized? some teachers write out the list on the board, or print it out on a worksheet - and while those methods can sometimes work, there’s something about flashcards that seems to make memorization a lot more intuitive. maybe it’s the fact that students can flip through the deck at will, and only see one item at a time. maybe it’s the friendly pictures and boldly printed words on each card. whatever it is that makes them so engaging, flashcards are a tried-and-true way to help your students absorb the basics of a new esl topic. the 308 flashcard sets available here on busyteacher.org are especially handy, because they all come with big, bright pictures and easy-to-read words. they cover all kinds of grammar and vocabulary areas, from body parts and household items to emotions and even technical terms. here on busyteacher.org, you’ll never run out of fun flashcards - whether you’re working through a unit on food, holidays, cultures around the world, or even people and characters from modern pop culture. some of our flashcards can help your students learn simple words, while others can help them learn descriptive vocabulary, verb forms, english phonemes, and much more, by challenging them to match the right pictures with the descriptions, tenses, or sounds. from level one students learning the english alphabet, all the way to level five students learning to express themselves with fluency, every esl learner can have fun and sharpen their language skills with our flashcard sets. every single set of flashcards on this site is completely free to use and download - and you have busyteacher’s worldwide community of esl teachers to thank for that. all the worksheets on this site were created by esl teachers like you - and you can print, duplicate, and share them without paying, or even registering. and if you’ve got a worksheet or flashcard set that’s come especially handy in your classroom, you’re more than welcome to share it with the community by clicking the “submit a worksheet” button at the bottom of this page. got to run to class soon? just skim through all the flashcard sets using our handy thumbnail view, which lets you get a glimpse of each printable set of flashcards without even downloading it. once you’ve found one (or a few) that you like, print ‘em off, try ‘em out, and see why thousands of esl teachers all over the world have made busyteacher.org their number-one stop for fun free flashcards! read more......less filter by level new complete beginner (156) elementary (215) pre-intermediate (117) intermediate (59) upper-intermediate advanced (11) exam level (3) suitable for all levels (14) clear filters filter top articles in this category 9 ways to bring real life into the classroom how to use printable flashcards for teaching esl top 7 visual aids you simply must use with your esl kids how to teach thanksgiving using flashcards phonics in a flash: 4 simple ways to use flashcards when teaching phonics ready in a flash: 8 activities you can do with one or two sets of flash cards dramatically improve the way you teach: check out our writing resources creative writing prompts 1-50 creative writing prompts 51-100 creative writing prompts 101-150 creative writing prompts 151-200 creative writing prompts 201-250 creative writing prompts 251-300 creative writing prompts 301-350 creative writing prompts 351-400 creative writing prompts 401-450 creative writing prompts 451-500 creative writing prompts 501-550 creative writing prompts 551-600 make a word search: create awesome-looking custom word searches in seconds! create now › make a word scramble: instantly create custom word/sentence scrambles for your class! create now › make a double puzzle: generate double puzzles your students will love - hours of fun! create now › esl articles view our latest knowledgebase articles that will help you become a better english teacher. learn from professional teachers and put a bit of your own creativity into it! top 10 tongue twisters: true teacher's treasure? 10 february themed language building activities beyond martin luther king day: teaching argument through the writings of martin luther king wida and access testing: what you need to know how to be a better teacher: the secret recipe that every pro knows view all rate this category 4.5 out of 5, rated by 24 teachers most popular daily routines flashcards feelings and emotions flashcards clothes [full lesson plan] zodiac signs: discussion cards ipa flashcards environment cards body parts flashcards: part 2 10 realistic fruit and vegetable flashcards daily routines / actions - flash cards prepositions of place flashcards sort by: most recent | most viewed | rating memory game of electrical components juana barrado •teenagers, adult learners, describing things, flashcard sets this is a memory game based on fourteen electronic components and their definitions. students display the cards upside down on the table. in turns, they turn over two cards at a time with the goa ... 1 8,977 pre-int ipa flashcards ppt wmappleteach •alphabet, dictionary activities, intonation, rhythm and stress, flashcard sets these ipa flashcard powerpoint slides can help students learn & review the international phonetic alphabet. there are three sample words and their phonetic spellings for each sound/symbol, th ... 1 8,953 all 12 printable basic colors flashcards for toddlers kids flashcards •colours, flashcard sets this worksheet contains 12 color flashcards. the following color flashcards include blue, brown, black, gold, gray, green, orange, red, silver, violet, yellow, white. parents and teachers c ... 1 8,250 begelempre-int 20 realistic sea animals flashcards kids flashcards •animals, flashcard sets this worksheet contains 29 realistic sea animals flashcards. it is made with kids-flashcards.com flashcard maker. the following sea animals flashcards include stingray, octopus, seaweed, starfish ... 1 8,123 begelempre-int 29 realistic vegetables flashcards kids flashcards •everyday/social english, fruit and vegetables, flashcard sets this worksheet contains 29 realistic vegetable flashcards. it is made with kids-flashcards.com online flashcard maker. the following vegetable flashcards include: radish, turnip, beet, celery, ca ... 1 10,508 begelempre-int put busyteacher in your inbox sign up for the busyteacher weekly and be the first to get direct links to our latest teaching articles, worksheets and lesson plans. goes out to 323,134 subscribers every wednesday. see last week's issue. yes, sign me up! thank you for joining our mailing list! 29 realistic crockery and cutlery flashcards kids flashcards •cooking, flashcard sets this worksheet contains 29 realistic crockery and cutlery flashcards. the following crockery and cutlery flashcards include saucer, chopsticks, egg cup, napkin, samovar, carafe, salt cellar ... 1 7,816 begelempre-int 28 realistic land transport flashcards kids flashcards •city and countryside, transport, flashcard sets this worksheet contains 28 realistic land transport flashcards. the following land transport flashcards include amphibious atv, sleigh, taxi, double-decker bus, tourist bus, camper, police ... 1 7,935 begelempre-int 20 realistic fruits flashcards kids flashcards •everyday/social english, fruit and vegetables, flashcard sets this worksheet contains 20 realistic fruit flashcards. the following fruit flashcards include mango, orange, peach, persimmon, pineapple, pomegranate, pear, plum, grapes, guava, banana, app ... 1 9,158 begelempre-int princess and the mystery box jeff genet •feelings and emotions, say/tell/speak/talk, creative writing prompts, flashcard sets a fantastic visual teaching prompt to teach creative writing, speaking, storytelling, sequencing and lots more. use the pictures to pre-teach vocabulary and expressions related to the theme. excel ... 1 18,769 all thanksgiving flashcards jeff genet •thanksgiving worksheets, say/tell/speak/talk, creative writing prompts, flashcard sets a beautifully illustrated set of flashcards for thanksgiving. powerful tools for creative writing, storytelling, brainstorming, conversation starters, vocabulary building and pretty much anything! ... 1 14,920 all halloween storytelling flashcard prompts jeff genet •halloween, say/tell/speak/talk, creative writing prompts, flashcard sets high quality beautifully illustrated flashcards that can be used for icebreakers, vocabulary building, storytelling, creating writing, presentations, cultural awareness and a variety of other thin ... 1 16,579 all 2018 winter olympics flashcards jeff genet •-ed and -ing endings, adjectives vs. adverbs, verb, flashcard sets beautifully illustrated flashcards teach an olympics-themed lesson. this olympics-themed set will brighten up the classroom, increase retention and provide an awesome visual learning aid. the flas ... 1 11,638 all flashcards of daily activities lenak •everyday/social english, flashcard sets this worksheet contains 20 colorful flashcards of daily routines and activities: get up, wash face, have breakfast, go to school, etc. it will help esl students master the phrases in english. pare ... 12 85,447 begelempre-int aviation sentences maiara •mingling activities, reading comprehension, flashcard sets in this exercise, the sentences are scrambled and the students must put the words in the correct order. you can use it as a simple exercise or you can turn it into a game with the winner being th ... 2 33,050 all brag tags for the efl classroom karengalindo •classroom management and discipline, flashcard sets this document consists of brag tags for the efl classroom! it has its colored and black and white version. -i am speaking english -i am following directions -i am a good friend -i am using magic ... 6 19,351 begelempre-int useful cooking verbs s.i. •cooking, food, flashcard sets this table is a reference guide for students learning about food/cooking/baking/the kitchen. the table contains common cooking verbs with images for easy understanding. i usually print the table a ... 5 55,021 begelem 40 flashcard of clothing elena kol •shopping/clothes, flashcard sets the worksheet contains 40 flashcards of clothes, shoes and accessories. you may print and use the cards to educate kids at esl lessons or at home. the flashcards are colorful, made with http://fla ... 15 53,638 begelempre-int all english phonetic symbols (flashcards in pdf) elena •homophones, flashcard sets the worksheet contains 46 symbols of the english phonetics - consonants, vowels and stress symbol. the sounds are given with the examples of words. the flashcards can be easily printable and used ... 5 57,129 begelempre-int farm animals flashcards elena k •animals, flashcard sets 16 flashcards of domestic animals: pig, cow, horse, cat, dog, rabbit, goat, sheep, and others. ideal to show to little learners or use at primary school. the cards can be used at english lessons a ... 9 31,524 begelempre-int vegetables flashcards osfor •food, fruit and vegetables, flashcard sets a set of 18 colorful vegetable flashcards,which can be used for teaching new words, conversation cards, oral test, group work, classroom posters, etc.. it contains pictures of tomatoes, caul ... 10 52,424 begpre-intint describing appearance lerlechka •appearance/body parts, flashcard sets these flashcards can be used to teach students appearance vocabulary. they can help students remember the words or these flashcards can be used as speaking cards. the worksheet is useful for ... 10 45,544 begelempre-intint printable alphabet flashcards omayravicious •alphabet, flashcard sets this is a very colorful alphabet that you can print and use for teaching the abc whether you're introducing them one by one or as a whole. kids will love to relate the letters to the animals ... 15 37,049 beg children's games englishteacherspich •young learners, teenagers, sports and hobbies, flashcard sets match the names of games with pictures. i printed, coloured and laminated them and i am using them for many things. young learners can match them, learners can also develop speaking by picking out ... 5 29,561 elempre-intint flashcard: silence angelicaguti •classroom management and discipline, flashcard sets it is pretty important to stablish rules in a classroom. here, you can find this flashcard that invites students to be quiet in class. it is useful for classroom management. also, it can be u ... 9 25,693 begelempre-intint daily routines / actions - flash cards karine •present simple, flashcard sets a set of flash cards for daily routines and actions. put together with clip art and drawings from google images. the actions are not written on the cards. can be used for teaching daily acti ... 16 77,860 begelempre-int got a great worksheet on flashcard sets? tell us about it and become a busyteacher contributor! submit a worksheet previous page 1 2 3 4 5 ... 13 next page busyteacher.org copyright 2007-2020 © about submit a worksheet log in terms privacy contact us mobile version working. please wait...