skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 31 awesome technology news magazine wordpress themes 2020 31 awesome technology news magazine wordpress themes 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 43 comments a comprehensive list of the best tech news wordpress themes for magazine style websites. amazingly, you don’t need to be an experienced web developer to run an exemplary site. the only things required by a perfect tech news site are some basic knowledge of wordpress and a killer theme. the next list will present you the most popular and recommended themes for tech news websites. take a look and choose what truly fits your needs. any of the following themes are guaranteed to keep visitors interested and engaged. they are crucial for online success, and you will have an easy time monetizing your traffic. i believe that you have seen tech news sites such as the verge, engadget, techcrunch, android authority, cult of mac and other popular websites and have wondered how you can create websites like these? we are ready to share the best themes for technology news websites with you. without any further ado, let’s have a look at the best tech news themes for wordpress. newspaper (most popular) if you wish to create successful tech news websites, newspaper is a perfect choice. built for the publishing industry, this elegant template will give your site the professional touch you were looking for, without coding anything. this wordpress theme offers game-changing features. newspaper includes tagdiv composer, the first-page builder designed for news and magazine websites. with its intuitive interface, tagdiv composer is a 100% front-end editing tool. you don’t have to be a web designer to create a spectacular website. you can drag, drop & arrange over 100 elements, and see the changes happening live. moreover, you can load over 810 pre-made templates from the tagdiv cloud library and import them to your posts or custom pages. every pre-built design is highly customizable with the tagdiv composer. newspaper theme comes with technology that makes your site faster than ever for any screen device. without any complicated processes, you will have a speed optimized and good ranking website. also, newspaper is google amp ready. appreciated as the best theme for news and magazine sites by the industry critics, newspaper brings you all the features for effortless website creation. custom-built blocks, engaging full-width grids, teasing news thicker, animated widgets, smart lists, sidebars, multiple menus, viewport resizing, full ajax support, all the features are packed in this theme. your tech news site needs to make a lasting impression. your readers will first interact with the top header, menu section, and footer area. thankfully, newspaper includes a header builder where you can tweak everything and create multiple and unique styles for each page. moreover, newspaper theme lets you style top bar designs and fancy footers. this template also uses the best seo practices, so you can improve your search performances. it’s ready to help you monetize your website with google adsense or banner ads. more info / download demo soledad soledad is a clever and aesthetically sophisticated, professionally graphically designed and very elegantly composed, robust and reliable, efficiently coded and lightweight, search engine optimized and mobile-friendly, technologically articulate and inventive, bold and eloquent, responsive wordpress multiconcept blog and magazine website theme, a simple and easy to use set of tools, features, plugins and templates specifically designed with the aim of empowering everyone to create efficiently design, construct the most amazing professional quality websites around. this theme is an expert at spreading the word, with impressive features and plugins designed specifically for readers to immerse themselves in your content on top of extensive, cutting edge technologically advanced resources and options ranging from hardware-powered parallax visual effects to smooth and polished html5 video backgrounds, soledad looks and feels great right out of the box. with over 250 custom-built, unique demo homepages, customizable in over 250 fields so you are truly in control of your website’s presentation, and added to over 100 blog and slider layout combinations professionally predesigned for your convenience, soledad is unparalleled in terms of communicational effectiveness. that is why soledad is the best tech news website theme on the market. hop on soledad today! more info / download demo gillion (trending item) gillion is the perfect theme you can use for your tech news website in case you have little or no experience with wordpress and website administration. the theme was developed with seo in mind, and it can adapt to all search engine optimization methods and purposes. the social media support of this theme is designed to assure you that every post will reach the audience of your site, no matter on which social platform they might be active on. since the advertisement is a delicate topic and it has to be managed flawlessly, you can’t afford off-place banners. the gillion theme has increased responsiveness for google ads and several areas for banners. it’s easy to use while offering all features needed for a successful online publication. more info / download demo magplus magplus is a wordpress theme ideal for technologically oriented pages. it is suitable for building blogs, magazine and posting news. to start with, you get google amp which improves serps & seo. it is the best option to optimize clients or readers mobile browsing experience. magplus is 100% responsive which makes your material look stunning and simply amazing on any device. it is also fast, and light-weighted. it offers smaller file sizes, fewer queries, and a 2.25 seconds load-time. for your website design, magplus library has unlimited layout possibilities! get crafty with more than 12 header options and over 150 handcrafted elements. magplus is integrated with premium plugins as well. enjoy the flexibility of yellow pencil, style editor, seo, widgets, and woocommerce. make the most avant-garde website and dazzle your visitors! choose the demos that are attuned with your tech and selling needs with just one-click! set up right away! use magplus! more info / download demo compass compass is a thoroughly flexible, amazingly powerful, visually sophisticated wordpress responsive multi-purpose theme, fully capable of handling a great number of different website project needs, designed with adaptability, legibility and visual prowess in mind, as well as massive audience distribution and social media integration. the result is compass, a theme that is especially powerful when used in news and magazine websites. it is coded to be responsive and adaptive above all, and will allow you to fully make it your own while simultaneously drawing in viewers and focusing them on your precious images and content, thanks to its carefully crafted templates and layouts that are free from distractions. compass lets your users know where to go. compass makes full use of the powerful zoom framework, dynamic homepage builder, live customizer and touch slideshow to create amazing, professional looking, customized homepages in a matter of minutes and without coding skills required. extensive shortcodes abound for you to easily drag and drop all sorts of customizable elements right into your website. powerful tag and category features let you organize and sort your posts easily for your viewers’ convenience, employing the jetpack plugin for incredibly added functionality, including tiled galleries, related posts, and numerous other sidebar widgets. start bringing traffic home with compass! more info / download demo best with a name like best, you can be sure that you are in for a great wordpress theme. this theme was designed for magazines and other online publications, so it can fit great for your needs. it’s a clean and engaging theme with a flat design and increases responsiveness, which makes it ideal for cross-device accessibility. it’s also cross-browser flexible, loading and functioning perfectly on any browser out there. since you will be running a website that mainly handles written content, seo should be one of your priorities. best is a theme optimized for that purpose and you will have an easy time ranking higher in google with its seo features. besides, it’s easy to install and the narrated video tutorials will help you customize it by yourself. more info / download demo jannah jannah is a powerful wordpress theme specialized in the news. it has all the speed and flexibility that a news website needs. jannah includes many pre-made demos you can import with a single click. one of them is tech news. the theme offers you the possibility to please this very specific niche. your content is mobile-optimized, loading fast everywhere with the accelerate mobile pages (amp). it has real-world features like ‘select & share’, gif support or web-based notifications. jannah is optimized with full support by the yoast plugin and seo support. so, you can get more visitors through the search engines. besides, it can pick up ranking signals from specific html elements. getting jannah you can easily set up discussion forums with bbpress integration. and, this is important for tech news page customers. jannah is highly customizable. it has almost 1.000 font options, pre-skinned demos, unlimited header styles and multiple layouts. you can tailor as you wish. one outstanding feature is the customizable mobile navigation. you can stand out from the crowd with a beautiful style. also, you have a dedicated advertiser space, woocommerce and translation ready. if tech news is your business, jannah is for you. get it! more info / download demo portus portus is a modern, adaptable, and charming theme for wordpress websites. it has a sizable collection of useful features, and its design is sure to attract many visitors. portus is responsive towards any device, regardless of its screen size. there are responsive blocks and layouts for icons, elements, and retina sharp photos. in addition, the product is cross-browser compatible. you can let every page have several sidebar variations, and you can combine them in various forms. in total, you will benefit from 11 unique layouts. you can also change all settings via the control panel. despite its power, this panel remains very intuitive, as even a novice user can successfully navigate its options. the visual composer plugin can simply the customization process, and it does not require any programming knowledge. drag and drop technology are used, and you will only need to move elements across the screen with your cursor. it’s that simple! in order to accommodate those with smaller screens, an off-canvas mobile menu was made available. this feature helps to save screen space, as it automatically vanishes when it is not being used. portus also has facebook post previews, twitter summary cards, lightbox photo galleries, and google rich snippets. more info / download demo herald herald is a high-quality wordpress theme for users who wish to create tech news websites. it is a carefully-crafted product which boasts a broad spectrum of useful features. although it is highly versatile and it can be used for a variety of roles, herald remains tailored for magazine and news platforms. the setup process is accessible and intuitive. even novice clients will be able to craft fully-functional pages in a matter of moments. if you are experiencing any trouble, be sure to consult the informative tutorial videos. they offer to guide you through the initial setup stages. many online publications can also distribute physical copies. herald can accommodate that distribution, as it has integrated woocommerce. this innovative product makes it easier for people to design their own online shops. you can upload images of all sizes and resolutions with ease, and you can either select a pre-determined size or implement a custom size. the theme has a completely modular header area, and it is possible to implement a header that perfectly matches your website’s theme. you can place advertisement banners on individual article posts, archive pages, or on the home page. the creators also added a live demo for clients who wish to sample header. more info / download demo pennews pennews is a potent, reliable and responsive wordpress news & magazine website theme. this theme has a sharp set of tools for crafting unique news outlets. packing a wealth of custom widgets and post styles, pennews looks and feels polished. general, world, entertainment or niche market news fit right in with pennews. conveniently featured news sliders showcase your best content. draw users where you want them to go with a wealth of layout styles. build pages like a pro with wpbakery, without any coding. get your news articles tracking on social media with sharing counters and buttons. google amp and facebook instant articles provide the ultimate mobile efficiency. keep server costs low and reach a broader crowd. pennews incorporates gorgeous galleries and portfolios. monetize your news outlet with endless ad spaces, in-feed ads and more. pennews is everything your news magazine needs to succeed! more info / download demo magone magone is a colorful and attractive, sleek and fashionable, elegant and trendy, readily responsive wordpress news and magazine website theme. this theme has all the most sophisticated, cutting edge tools and features you will need in order to swiftly and effectively construct a slew of diverse online magazines and blogs across all imaginable genres and niches, but when it comes to building beautiful fashion magazines for a massive online audience, nobody does it like magone. with a wealth of classy and purposeful demo website templates, initial setup of your magone fashion magazine is as easy and uncomplicated as a one-click import process, while the robust and resourceful sheeit framework offers a competent and capable drag and drop interface for you to further customize your layouts. page and post advanced theme options put you in charge of your fashion magazine’s aesthetics and presentation every step of the way, from colors and typographical options to transitions and animations that keep your audience marveled and amazed. gorgeous megamenu styles quickly hierarchize your website and content in a matter of minutes, without requiring any sort of coding, while compatible widgets are widely available for you to expand your fashion magazine in any direction. try magone now! more info / download demo news times if you want to focus on both written news and video reports, the news times wordpress theme is an excellent choice. it features optimized video posts formats and ajax loading for a smoother playback with reduced buffering. this theme also brings you infinite scrolling options, which you can enable or disable with a click of a button. it respects the standards of both wordpress and w3c coding, making it one of the most versatile themes of the moment. the customization level of news times is going to help you achieve a unique interface for your tech news site. that’s because it comes with infinite color and slider options, an easy-to-use control panel featuring one-click changes, a homepage layout manager and a translation-ready feature. more info / download demo magxp this is one awesome magazine theme for wordpress. it will bring you all the benefits of an online magazine, with high customization and a well-developed system for search engine optimization. with the theme’s homepage creator, you won’t need to write complicated code lines or upload psd files in order to customize the homepage of your site. it features a drag and drop interface that will help you build a homepage, which can reflect your style and professionalism. one of the most useful ways of keeping visitors interested in your content is to use both text and images in all posts. unfortunately, not everyone has the server resources for that. however, with the new ajax features of the magxp theme, your images will load fast, without exhausting server resources. more info / download demo clock clock is a straight forward theme for the people who are ready to monetize their site through both advertisements and sells. this responsive wordpress theme comes to both seo and woocomerce ready. the developers created it by combining the traditional style of journalistic publications with modern online shops. you can impress and engage your readers through the themes of interactive features, helping you achieve a higher conversion rate and an increase in popularity. the blogging experience will change drastically, mainly because of the easy to use seo features and the shortcodes generator. these features improve the quality of your content when it comes to efficiency in reaching new and targeted readers. they also specially optimized it for ad-sense, so you will have multiple options of monetizing your traffic. more info / download demo glamour if you want to build a modern-looking website, inspired by minimalism and elegance, you should consider glamour as your new wordpress theme. it comes with a great interface that can be easily customized from the control panel, multiple column post display for featuring a larger amount of content preview and woocommerce support in case you want to sell products or services to your audience. the theme is at its 2.0.1 version and once purchased, you will be able to update it for free, for the rest of your life. in case you won’t be able to customize it or use some of its features on your own, a professional support team will assist you. more info / download demo saxon saxon is a fantastic technology news wordpress theme that gets you going in a snap of a finger. we all know why we came this far, still, if you would like to use saxon for something else, go against the norm and make things happen. after all, saxon is a multi-concept theme for online magazines and blogs of all niches. and if you incorporate your signature touch to it, you can take things to a whole other level. to create a modern and high performing technology news page, saxon is at your service with all its perks that you unlock after downloading it. saxon also supports google amp, gutenberg and other valuable and practical goodies that will put you on top. combine it with your compelling content and start building a loyal following. more info / download demo suga for a technology news wordpress theme, suga is one of the alternatives that will do you extremely well. with its original and very enticing look, you will have no trouble capturing their attention right away. while you can utilize suga out of the box, you can also style it further. after all, do not hold yourself back and personalize and brand the default look according to your directions. no need to undergo any heavy lifting, thanks to bkninja composer. yes, the drag and drop page builder requires no coding knowledge. extra specialties of suga come in the form of mega menu, sticky sidebar, review system, advanced post functionality and social sharing. the layout of suga is also 100% responsive, seo-ready, in tune with mobile devices and fast loading. create an unforgettable experience that will make visitors want to come back. more info / download demo papr due to the versatility of papr, you can easily employ this tool as a technology news wordpress theme. it is a web design full of amazing material that will get you rolling in just a click. when doing the work with papr, prior experience is not a requirement. after all, papr will never ask you for your programming knowledge – because there will be none. papr comes integrated with elementor that unlocks the process of dragging and dropping. that’s not all. with the technology-specific predefined demo, you can have your full-blown news page all set in a breeze. you do not even need to change anything if you fancy the default look. additionally, you get loads more internal pages, different header styles, live color customizer and working contact forms. with the one minute setup, you are ready to make an immediate difference. more info / download demo pixwell with pixwell, you can start a technology news site comfortably. whether this is your first or your tenth project, you will successfully create it with no sweat. pixwell is a powerful, practical and easy to use wordpress theme with a wide range of different features and functions. there are very many ready-to-use samples at your disposal, all set to get you started on the internet as fast as possible. for any extra tweaks and improvements, use the advantageous elementor page builder. other creative treats of pixwell include read it later function, quick translation, different post formats and features, ruby newsletter system and view counter. last but not least, pixwell also supports the woocommerce plugin, offering you to expand your news page with an ecommerce section. do your thing and start spreading the word out with pixwell. more info / download demo blogxer creativity knows no bounds and nor does blogxer. this technology news wordpress theme is perfect for bloggers and soon-to-be online magazine owners. on the other hand, if you are interested in redesigning your existing news page, you can do that, too, with the helpful blogxer. there are very many front and inner page layouts available so you do not need to build anything from scratch. there is also a fully functional tech demo ready-made but you will have a breeze altering others as well. no need to stick to the default setting when knowing that blogxer is entirely customizable. also, you need to have no coding knowledge and still build a magnificent news page thanks to elementor page builder. create a custom header and footer and do not miss adding online store section if necessary. moreover, blogxer is compatible with all popular plugins, mobile and desktop devices and retina screens. blogxer is an all-in-one kit for technology news pages. more info / download demo telling telling is a technology news wordpress theme out of the box. the tool comes with multiple ready-to-use demos for all sorts of niches, generic news pages, too. at the end of the day, it is the content you stuff telling with that defines the main theme of the website. with that in mind, go as niche-specific as you want even with a demo that works for something entirely different by default. modifying and altering telling is possible without coding skills due to the handy wpbakery page builder. but if you fancy the default demo, lucky you, as the outcome will be set up quickly with almost no work necessary. the features of telling include smarty sticky menu, custom post and reading times, sticky sidebar, child theme, mnky core and oh so much more. you can also monetize your tech news page with ad placements and turn your website into a money machine. more info / download demo gorgo if you fancy minimalism and cleanness, you will dig gorgo undoubtedly. it is a versatile and multi-purpose blog and magazine wordpress theme with great attention to detail. indeed, you can employ gorgo for your technology news website, too. kick things off by choosing the predefined demo that suits your taste best. you can go with light or dark layout, too. besides, gorgo even has an addition of an online shop which you can implement right away or add to your growing news page later on. gorgo is responsive, browser compatible, optimized for impressive performance and search engine friendly. it also comes with paid membership pro plugin, which will help you monetize your technology news site. in one kit of goodness, you have all the necessities that will take your idea to new heights in the form of a technology news website. more info / download demo barta with seven ready-to-use demos, barta caters to many ideas and helps you realize them sooner rather than later. barta is also a technology news wordpress theme which creates a fantastic space for writing about gadgets, announcing new product drops and all in between. the limits are none with barta, use your imagination and stand out a mile! barta is mobile-ready, responsive, flexible and extendable. it perfectly adapts to mobile and desktop devices, retina screens and instantly acclimatizes to any popular web browser. and once you grow your online magazine or blog to a certain volume, you can start monetizing it with the integrated ad placements. what was once just an idea can now become a full-time business. think long-term and create a spectacular web space for every technology and electronics enthusiast. more info / download demo split split is one of those little secrets of the blogging community. it takes the minimal style to a whole new level and it implemented the next-gen layout, with dual post and dual sidebar features on the homepage. the sites who are already using this theme have reported an improved user-experience and an increase in the engagement level of the audience. split is also fully responsive, adapting to any size of a screen on which is displayed, no matter if accessed from computers or mobile devices. but the user experience is not the only one improved. you will be able to create your own blogging style with the custom dashboard design. this will help you stay organized and become more productive. more info / download demo innovation innovation is a modern and responsive wordpress multipurpose blog website theme. the creators developed this powerful and profoundly attractive blog website theme to exclusively meet and exceed the technical and graphical expectations of bloggers across the board, regardless of specific, niche applications, blog archetypes or subject matters. to accomplish such a feat, innovation makes use of the most advanced components and plugins assembled across an assortment of extraordinary, unique, professionally graphically designed home page demo websites totaling in at over 230, each devoted to a particular, specific conception of a blog, ensuring you find the right fit for them, and offering you dozens of advanced theme options to further customize your blog to fit your required specs. innovation’s modern, sleek and nearly futuristic home page demo templates, along with its superb html5 coding and integrated reviews system, make it a perfect candidate for running sophisticated tech blog websites of all kinds, all ready within a couple of clicks! try innovation now! more info / download demo flex mag flex mag is a minimal and customizable wordpress magazine theme, an amazing, solidly constructed theme that is well outfitted for handling the basic needs of a great variety of website archetypes. from online stores to personal blogs, from portfolios to social forums, but especially crafted for the purpose of delivering the best all-around magazine theme ever created. if you are the webmaster of a magazine website, and you need to create your website in a visually impressive, technologically sophisticated way to will bedazzle discerning, demanding visitors that are quickly distracted, flex mag is the theme for you. not only is it easy and painless to install and to use, and comes packed full of preconfigured, highly customizable article layouts, featured post layouts, homepage layouts and more, its unique fly-out navigational menus, limitless ad placement units and sticky sidebars to make sure they actually are seen, incredible parallax visual effects, infinite scrolling feature, youtube, vimeo and soundcloud integration, bbpress compatibility out of the box for you to gather your loyals—flex mag does all. more info / download demo sahifa professionals achieve success because they surround themselves with things that maximize their productivity. considering the importance of a website in today’s business environment, you cannot afford to present a mediocre page. thankfully, sahifa is a wordpress theme that refuses to be bland. it is the glove that fits all hands, considering that this is one of the most versatile page themes in the world. every feature takes your site to a new level of aesthetic beauty and practicality. sahifa has many customization options. it has incorporated the drag and drop homepage builder, which allows for easy personalization. regardless of the customer’s technical background, you can always design a gorgeous site. you don’t need any programming or coding knowledge to use this theme. you only need to click on an element and drag it to your desired place. it’s that simple. site administrators can either enable or disable their sticky navigation menus. by accessing the theme settings, they can also modify every post’s typography. with over 650 incredible google fonts, lack of variety will not be an issue. pages can feature backgrounds adds, offering a boost in revenue. in addition, your readers can give you direct feedback, due to the built-in site review system. more info / download demo newsmag pro newsmag pro is a convenient and useful wordpress magazine theme. this theme is the result of a lengthy design and development process aimed at creating the ultimate platform for news magazine websites across all sorts of industries and businesses, empowering everyone to easily and effortlessly craft their very own, one of a kind online news mags in a matter of minutes, awaiting just your content to go live the same day you set up, and with a broad set of deep-running capabilities. newsmag pro features a competent set of homepage demo websites and professionally designed template pages and layouts to cover all sorts of niches and interests, while integrating robust customization tools so you can always make things look and feel just right to suit your brand and your content. technology news magazines particularly favor newsmag pro due to its lightweight architecture and fast-loading code that is easy on the servers under even heavy traffic, its inherently mobile-friendly modular design inspired by bootstrap and guaranteeing device and browser cross-compatibility, and much more under the hood. get your own tech news magazine today, with newsmag pro! more info / download demo mightymag the mightymag theme is one of the complete themes you can use for your online tech news site. the main feature of this theme is that it will help you offer content, in a clean and efficient fashion. the things that are making mightymag special, are the elements that will also help you run an online store and an online community on the same site. the developers designed this theme to support most of the major plugins for wordpress, including woocommerce, bbpress, and buddypress. it comes with a clean and seo optimized code. it also comes with a simple category builder, an engaging review system and increased loading speed. with this theme, you won’t have to worry about updates managing since it features automatic updating through envato toolkit. more info / download demo multinews this multi-purpose theme will serve well for any kind of news site or magazine. because of its increased customization and user-friendly admin panel, you will be able to adapt and customize its features. in less than an hour, you will be able to adapt it to the topic of your site. it’s retina-ready, ideal for the viewers who are accessing it from ios devices. it also responds well on android and windows mobile devices. the flipping page feature will assure a magazine-like user experience, but you can disable this effect if needed. it also comes ready for plugins like woocommerce, bbpress or buddypress. the advertisement system of this theme will help you improve your conversion rate, without using annoying advertisement tactics. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. flat designfull screenmagazineresponsivetech news themewoocommerce share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts top popular wordpress radio station themes for any genre radio station 2020 we’ve heard it countless times—the internet is the future. we’ve heard it so long it’s… 17 best landscaping website templates 2020 ( html & wordpress) have you ever dreamt of having a nice outdoor space for a retreat at home?… best videographer and photographer wordpress themes 2020 we’ve got an entire dozen of the very best videographer and photographer wordpress themes for photography and videography portfolios. 16 best wordpress themes video background 2020 undeniably, videos are more captivating and engaging than mere text. likewise, videos can convey more… top 23 wordpress admin dashboard themes and plugins 2020 wordpress changed the way writers publish, wordpress helped small businesses and startups to establish solid… 19 best responsive metro wordpress themes 2020 a stunning collection of the best metro wordpress themes for business, portfolio, personal, real estate,… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: beautiful wordpress bookstore themes for selling books and e-books 2020 next post: 20 best wordpress bbpress forum and community themes in 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×