course login the best way to kickstart your blog course includes 60 day money back guarantee instant access to online course materials video, audio, slides and writable worksheets check structured facebook group for progress and accountability buy now for $99 usd why you need this course you've just started your blog and figured out all those first steps of getting your first few posts published. now what? this course will give you some direction in building successful foundations for a profitable blogging business maybe you've been blogging a while and have lost your way or your 'blogging mojo'? consider this course a 'lifesaver' for your blog, with a month of actionable prompts to kickstart your blog again and get it on the right path to becoming a profitable business. better than the original best-selling ebook! video presentations if you'd rather watch and listen, each day has a video presentation to walk you through the lesson. downloadable audio want to listen on the go? you can download the mp3 files and take darren wherever you go. printable worksheets the lesson worksheets will help you record your responses to the lessons and form an action plan. updated and additional info the original 31 days program has been updated for the current blogging environment and includes additional actions and advice. join over 20,000 bloggers who have kickstarted their blogs with this 31 day challenge have big dreams for your blog? got a list of improvements sitting in the ‘one day’ basket? visitor numbers a little embarrassing? you’re not alone. 31 days to build a better blog is a multi-media online course designed to help you revitalize your blog. one step at a time, it will help transform your blog into an engaging page view powerhouse. designed to make you think, but more importantly do the course is divided into 31 easy-to-follow tasks that you can work through in your own time. each step in the course contains: teaching you’ll be given in-depth instruction on both the why and how of the task of the day a task something to do in that step so you make actual progress further reading so you can dive deeper on any task this three pronged approach is designed so that you come away from the challenge having not only learned how to build a better blog but you’ll have actually achieved something with the knowledge. join the course now! the course has been recently updated with lots of new video content in our facebook group from our march sprint of the course. join your fellow students now and start on your steps to build a better blog. buy now for $99 usd what you can achieve you'll benefit from two lessons darren has learnt about growing successful blogs #1 blogs grow when you take action it's all about intense bursts of love and focused effort - something this course is perfectly positioned to help you do. #2 blogs grow when you develop good habits it's not about discovering secret techniques - it's about developing healthy blogging habits that you do on a regular basis. by the end of our 31 steps together you'll have: check set objectives and goals for your blog check identified and really understood your audience check learned techniques for coming up with new post ideas check promoted your blog in a variety of ways and found new readers check deepened reader engagement with current readers check developed an editorial calendar for your blog check discovered ways to be more connected to your niche/topic check designed a plan for the next month of your blogging check explored opportunities for monetizing your blog check clarified your next steps on the path to a blogging business what our students say i wanted to take a quick minute and say that i am loving the course. i appreciate that it starts with a video and then moves on to text... day 2 (generating ideas) and day 3 (creating an editorial calendar) was a breakthrough for me. doing the mind map was a game changer and had never viewed content creation that way. i wrote one of the 10 blog posts last night and am excited to keep writing more. jackie ramirez // www.hudsonvalleyexposed.com in the first day, i implemented 4 days worth of advice from the workbook and tripled my blog traffic overnight. yes, really. every day i read and implemented another few day’s worth of advice from the workbook and it has steadily improved my blog traffic without fail. yvonne a // blogger i made it! i would like to thank you, darren, for this very useful series. my traffic is up, and i have discovered many new and fun things to do with my blog. i know this is a process, and i still have lots more to do and learn, but i'm looking forward to listening and reading more on the subject. fabi m // blogger focusing on my blog and website for 31 days straight i've been able to see how much time well spent can transform not just the process of managing and running it but the depth of and direction of content and the approach to readership and community. rosalind r-j // blogger how well did i do? i only missed one day of this challenge. my views increased by 35% which was great considering i was literally starting from zero! as i had said yesterday, i think i did, i'm starting to again get google referrals to my earlier and popular posts. of course, i know now i really need to work on building a community of readers and not just rely on google. shirley b // blogger darren rowse // problogger darren rowse has been blogging since 2002 on over 30 blogs. he’s been earning a full time living from his blogs since 2005. these days he focuses his time upon problogger (blogging tips) and digital photography school (a photography community). these two sites reach a combined audience of millions every month. darren is the author of problogger the book, founder of problogger events and speaks regularly on blogging and social media. what other blogging experts say darren’s step-by-step program will absolutely help you take the actions you need to build a better blog, based on his success creating niche content-focused communities that have nothing to do with blogging about blogging. brian clark // founder of copyblogger and rainmaker digital darren rowse is the master. absorb these lessons and prepare to grow your own success. chris brogan // founder of owner media group the best time to kickstart your blog is now! there are no secret techniques or one-size fits all blueprints. the key to success is focused effort and healthy blogging habits. don't wait a day longer to start on your pathway to a better blog. >> kickstart my blog<< lock secure checkout 100% money back guarantee star star star 100% satisfaction guarantee if you are not satisfied with the 31 days to build a better blog course after 60 days just let me know and i’ll refund your money – that’s how confident i am that this is a resource that will help you build a dramatically better blog. frequently asked questions do i need a blog before i start this course? yes, you will need a blog before you can apply the learning from this course. check out our completely free course to get your started: the ultimate guide to starting a blog do i have to complete it in 31 days? in the beta launch we'll be dripping out the course one day at a time so we can test our systems, but the course is designed to be taken whenever you want, over whatever timeframe you want. some people will move through the steps faster, others slower. it's up to you. is the course different from the original book or podcast series? the course builds on the successful 31 day format with updated and modernised content. the instruction is delivered via video, slides and audio files. the course is also supplemented with improved resources including downloadable worksheets and further reading. how long do i have access to the course? there is no defined period for access, you can come back and revisit the materials. the slides, audio and worksheets can be downloaded for your personal use. do i need any special software to participate in the course? the course can be accessed via your internet browser. the video player is built into the course and the other resources can be downloaded as pdfs and mp3 files. is there a facebook group? the success of 31 days to build a better blog over the years has mainly been because it enables people to take self-paced action. some want to speed ahead, some take it slower. the course is designed for people to start whenever they want, not on a set date. we've added a facebook group that helps guide you through the course and share your progress through structured posts, rather than an open format group. we suggest you also find an accountability buddy and do the course together for support. note: for 31 days in march we're actively supporting and teaching in the facebook group every day as part of a 31 day sprint. copyright 2018, problogger terms and conditions