home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » 31 days of handy home fixes protect pipes from freezing october 30, 2015 brittany bailey 8 comments in the same vein as monday's post about adding insulation, let's continue preparing for winter. while you are under the house looking at insulation, take notice of your water pipes. are they insulated too? if not, it's important to protect your water pipes with foam insulation to … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, energy conservation, fix it, home & auto maintenance, home maintenance, plumbing, repair day 31 – smoke detector maintenance tips october 31, 2014 brittany bailey 6 comments happy halloween! trick or treat, smell my feet! now, give me something good to eat. are you ready for the trickery tonight? ahhh, good. what about the time change in the us? on sunday, november 2nd be sure to turn your clocks back one hour. are you ready for that? what's to be … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, home & auto maintenance, home safety day 30 – seal gaps around pipes october 30, 2014 brittany bailey 11 comments do you have an open door policy for drafts and bugs? of course not! wait... you might and not know it. have you looked under your sinks around the water pipes? if you have gaps around the pipes, you have the welcome sign up for cold air and bugs. take a few minutes to seal … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, energy conservation, fix it, home & auto maintenance, plumbing day 29 – caulk cracks in siding and trim october 29, 2014 brittany bailey 9 comments one of the best thing you can do to save money is to prevent water from getting through your home's exterior. now is a good time to walk around your home and look for gaps and cracks around doors, windows, trim and siding. if you see any, i'll show you super quick way to caulk … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, caulking, fix it, home & auto maintenance day 28 – keep old toothbrushes for cleaning october 28, 2014 brittany bailey 9 comments never throw away your old toothbrushes again! these worn out dental tools make fabulous scrub brushes for cleaning. first be sure to mark the old brush with a permanent marker so no one will use it in their mouth again. then use this mini scrub brush on hard to … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, cleaning, home & auto maintenance day 27 – put an end to fireplace drafts october 27, 2014 brittany bailey 8 comments you may sense a theme here, yesterday i talked about weatherstripping the garage. but, as the temps are dropping, it's important to take some time to seal your home and eliminate drafts wherever they are lurking. one of the biggest offenders in our home was the fireplace. on cold … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, energy conservation, fireplace, home & auto maintenance, weatherstripping day 26 – weatherstrip your garage doors october 26, 2014 brittany bailey 14 comments do you have a garage? are your garage doors insulated or weather stripped? or do you have big gaps in the sides like this: if you don't have weather stripping on your garage doors, you could be throwing away money on heating spaces above and/or next to your … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, energy conservation, fix it, home & auto maintenance, weatherstripping day 25 – do you open or close crawlspace vents october 25, 2014 brittany bailey 7 comments do you leave your crawlspace vents open or closed? the great debate ends now. if you guessed open, you are right. if you guessed closed, you are also right! crawlspace vents should be opened in the spring and closed in the fall. the reason being that you want to … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, energy conservation, fix it, home & auto maintenance, repair day 24 – two new tips using a flashlight october 24, 2014 brittany bailey 8 comments do you have a flashlight? silly me, of course you do. but, if you only use it when the power goes out or to send your child out trick or treating, you are missing out on two additional uses for a flashlight. day 24 - two new tips using a flashlight 1. before you prepare to … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, home & auto maintenance day 23 – remembering to change your air filters regularly october 23, 2014 brittany bailey 6 comments i'm sure you already know how important it is to change your air filters in your home. as a filtrete ambassador, i'm happy to remind you why you should replace your filtrete healthy living ultimate allergen reduction mpr 1900 filters on a regular basis: helps improve air … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, air filter, fix it, home & auto maintenance day 22 – is your hvac choking? october 22, 2014 brittany bailey 2 comments is your refrigerator running? then go catch it. is your hvac choking? time to administer cpr! when was the last time you looked at your hvac unit? specifically the condenser which is the big box usually located outside the house. at first glance it doesn't look too … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, fix it, home & auto maintenance day 21 – diy laundry detergent october 21, 2014 brittany bailey 26 comments today's tip is one that is gentle on your washer (he and regular), but most importantly it will save you money! if you've ever looked at the cost of laundry detergent, you may have choked at the cost. i have a wonderful recipe for diy liquid laundry detergent that will cost you … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, cleaning, diy, home & auto maintenance, laundry room day 20 – scrub away hard water stains october 20, 2014 brittany bailey 3 comments do you have hard water? if you do, you probably understand when i say, "it's the bane of my existence when it comes to cleaning sinks!" however, i have a trick to scrub away that stubborn hard water crusty stain in no time! and i use a little power to save myself from … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, cleaning, dremel, home & auto maintenance day 19 – drill holes to a certain depth october 19, 2014 brittany bailey 4 comments occasionally you need to drill a hole to a specific depth. or you want to drill a hole into but not through your wood. this simple trick helps you do just that! day 19 - drill holes to a certain depth when i was drilling the top of the new closet doors, i marked the depth … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, build it, drill, home & auto maintenance day 18 – 5 ways to find a stud (without a stud finder) october 18, 2014 brittany bailey 13 comments using a stud finder is the quickest and easiest way to find a stud. but, if you don't have one or are too lazy to find yours (i'm often guilty of this), you can use one of these ways to find a stud. day 18: 5 ways to find a stud (without a stud finder) 1. measure from an … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, fix it, hanging blinds, hanging curtains, hanging shelves, home & auto maintenance, renovation day 17 – two ingredient ant killer october 17, 2014 brittany bailey 6 comments it's no picnic when you realize your home has been invaded by sugar ants. instead of spraying your kitchen (or wherever you find them) try this two ingredient ant killer. photo by stephen ausmus - https://www.ars.usda.gov/is/graphics/photos/dec04/k11622-1.htm licensed under … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, cleaning, fix it, home & auto maintenance 1 2 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok