skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 31 best mobile friendly church wordpress themes 2020 31 best mobile friendly church wordpress themes 2020 january 14, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 12 comments are you looking for the best church wordpress themes available today? then look no further! we have got you covered! minimalism, readability and good user-experience – these are the qualities of a website that many designers aim for when developing a website for a church or a religious group. for many years, church websites have issues keeping up with the latest website trends. some churches don’t really pay so much attention to the value of their website in reaching out to people and its ability to create a virtual community for their followers. however, church administrators should realize that getting a custom-made wordpress theme could help them build a decent and reliable website for their church that will accommodate the personal and spiritual needs of their members and followers. themes that are specially made for churches enable religious leaders and administrators to keep their audience informed about their current activities and upcoming church events, serums and collect donations efficiently. church wordpress themes today, we decided to create a list of the finest wordpress themes for church websites. most of the themes included in this list are fully responsive, optimized for retina ready display, have an efficient events manager plugin and other features that are serviceable for churches. so without further ado, here’s the list of the best church wordpress themes: thegem thegem is an adaptable wordpress church theme, available for many purposes. one of the usually relegated areas it covers is church needs. it gives the highest creative freedom for amateurs or non-experts in coding. it also offers portfolio features with dedicated design to suit churches’ requirements. create absolutely unique designs in minutes! thegem has more than 200 styles for more than 50 content elements. it’s easy to use and has been developed for high-performance. and of course, it is speed-optimized for all devices such as laptops, smartphones, and tablets. reach your congregation, regardless of what device they have at hand. with thegem, your new website will be secure, future-proof and fast. it offers gorgeous backgrounds, galleries, and slides. make use of the 3 premium integrated sliders. it’s also packed with complementary specialized features, testimonial widget, and calendars for your church services. it also includes counters and contacts forms to register your members. thegem has a built-in focus on usability and user experience. install it with one click; if you’re unsure of what to do, detailed online documentation is included. you will also get free updates! it’s wpml and rtl ready. thus, the language of your members will not be an issue. and lastly, it uses woocommerce integration for selling and donation purposes. in conclusion, this theme is well thought out and tailored to your church. get thegem! more info / download demo alone alone is an amazing church wordpress theme with a creative design. it is very flexible, regardless of the type of non-profit organization you run. alone is not monotonous in its package; it comes with high web performance, fully responsive (100% retina-ready), extensive seo compatibility with free premium plugins. if you want to rank high on search engines, this is the way to go. also, you can easily coordinate quick and efficient platforms for donations, choose from creative layouts and use the mega menu to its fullest potential. some awesome new features that await you include; one-click demos, 9+ creative headers, 800+ google fonts, 3+ blog styles, unlimited color selections, ajax search posts, events book online and sidebar unlimited. choose a theme that will take your church or non-profit organization to the next level today. be brave; do it alone. more info / download demo divi when it comes to divi, the introduction is almost unnecessary. this enormous tool is packed with just about anything and everything that you need. when it comes to building a website, you will succeed at it without a shadow of a doubt. even when it comes to church wordpress themes, divi becomes one in a snap. for your information, you will discover a full-blown demo that you can take to your advantage as is or improve it further. after all, you build everything visually with divi – no coding skills necessary! on scroll content loading, call-to-action, social media icons, subscription form, blog and a functional contact page with google maps are all the goodies that divi treats you to. if you dig the design, feel free to use divi exactly as it comes out of the box and spread god’s word right away. more info / download demo benevolence benevolence is an eye-catching and fully responsive church wordpress theme apt for developing websites for churches and other kinds of religious communities. it was built using html5 and css3 technologies to ensure that your website will work perfect and future-proof. it comes with 11 custom post types so you can straightforwardly include causes, events, staff, documents, galleries, sermons, ministries, projects and donations to your website. finally, the theme is incorporated with paypal to help you accept payments and donations with ease. more info / download demo charity life charity life is an impressive premium wordpress theme that can improve your website. it goes great with the pages of political organizations, churches, foundations, charity causes, and non-profit organizations. if you wish to experience the content before buying it, you may access the live theme demo. the installation process is very easy and intuitive, taking only a few minutes to complete. charity life also comes with a free installation, for users that do not have any experience with website creation. this theme’s loading speed is second to none. your users will certainly appreciate that your pages have no latency or delayed response. in order to facilitate the collection of automatic donations, paypal support is incorporated. the layout is completely responsive, promising to adapt to the screens of mobile phones, laptops and tablets. site owners may also personalize the page’s color palette, resulting in a unique and stand-out site. multilingual sites are often more popular, given their broader appeal. charity life can reach clients from all around the world, as it spreads your altruistic message. more info / download demo bridge when it comes to creating a church website, or even a page for a non-profit organization or fundraiser, you can do it quickly and effortlessly with bridge. this powerful, multi-functional and highly adaptive tool is ready and set for all your ideas and plans. while it comes with loads of beautiful and attractive demos out of the box, each is also 100% customizable and ready for you to alter it to your needs exactly how you fancy. bridge comes with a massive selection of features and assets that you can take to your advantage at free will. one thing is for sure; there are no limitations when it comes to bridge. do things your way or keep things the quick way and use bridge’s assets out of the box, either way, the end product will be a fantastic one. more info / download demo grace grace is a soothing and charming wordpress religious and church website theme. created with a specific goal in mind, and that is to empower religious officials and church members the world over to quickly and easily set up professional quality websites with tons of charming visual stylings, engaging animations and transitions, powerful functionality and all the tools you will need to thoroughly customize and modernize the look and feel of your church or religious organization’s website, for the world to see. with premium plugins meant to greatly ease your design and development experience, such as the visual composer drag and drop page builder, the revolution and swiper sliders make your content come alive with movement and interactivity, as well as thorough mobile-friendliness provided by flexible, modularly designed code based on bootstrap. it makes grace a truly universal theme that can reach all devices, browsers and screen sizes, looking splendid every time. with many powerful shortcodes included making your congregation come together, such as the event calendar plugin, impressive event widgets and much more for you to discover, grace is truly a blessing. try it now! more info / download demo my religion my religion is a professionally designed wordpress theme custom-built for religion and charity organizations, churches etc. this trendy church theme offers an all-in-one solution for your church website. the main features of this multi-use theme are the events calender & management, my religion wall, sermons, and woocommerce store. the events calendar & management offers an incomparable church event management features. the theme’s event manager inefficiently create events, accept bookings, manage guests or participants, set the venue, display google maps on your event and local pages and show your events in various ajax-powered calendars. in addition, the theme comes with a functional prayer wall with prayer request form and confirmation. it goes well with the woocommerce plugin that could help you sell any products and services effortlessly. my religion also comes with 6 different colour schemes, modern html5 and css3 code, powerful shortcodes custom menus, localization for other languages and intuitive options panel to help you install and manage your website without requiring any coding knowledge. more than that, the theme has a 100% responsive design which automatically adapts to ensure it works and looks great on all tablets and mobile devices. more info / download demo adore church adore church is a modern and easy to use wordpress church, religious organization or nonprofit organization website theme. a deeply flexible theme that is beloved by pastors, ministers and rabbis around the world for its ability to create incredibly full-featured, professional quality, high-performance church or nonprofit websites in a flash, without having to write a single line of code. adore church has all the modern bells and whistles needed to capture the younger demographics, with premium wordpress plugins like the revolution slider and layer slider to immerse your congregation in a ravishing visual navigational experience that greatly increases the thoroughness of overall user exposure to your content. fullscreen, boxed and wide layouts provide handsome options for you to present your information, while the premium isotope gallery lets you show off your church’s media content in an impressive, modern, relatable style. adore church has built-in megamenus for easier navigation and even soundcloud integration for streaming your sermons. more info / download demo salvation salvation is a wordpress theme created for churches, religious groups, and charitable organizations. a superfine layout design, customizable to suit your organizations values and goal. with the latest standards in html5 and css3 technology for easy web development. responsive and mobile-friendly, a design that makes your website look spectacular across all modern devices. it comes with amazing theme features and options for building a good church website such as 600+ google fonts, 300+ font awesome icons, and 12 custom widgets. also, with unlimited sidebar, 4 pagination types, fade-in effects, floating header, ajax quick search, custom css and many more. design using the theme’s intuitive drag-and-drop interface that makes setting up pages really fun and easy. the parallax background effects incorporated in this theme gives your website a unique 3d display feature that makes your website pique your users’ interest. this church theme has a “services section” that showcases the services of your users or followers could request from you such as paid contracting services, prayer requests, charitable assistance or other services. the theme also has unique status post formats that let you post information, news articles or announcements about your church. your organization could also take advantage of the audio post format with media player for sharing sermons, messages and other audio files. it also includes a donate form with paypal widget that you can use for raising funds for your church or organization. you can now let your users make reservations through your website and show it all in a beautiful calendar interface using the built-in event management system. salvation also supports wp subscribe pro, wp review pro and wp mega menu plugin. more info / download demo church and events church and events is a very flexible wordpress theme specially designed for churches, charitable organizations, and religious communities and events. this theme is ideal for people who have very little knowledge in building a decent website. church and events use the vamtam rock-solid theme framework and is built with clean and valid html5 and css3 technologies. the theme includes a sleek and user-friendly vamtam drag & drop page builder, which was created based on the popular visual composer. it comes with a pixel-perfect design, css and parallax effects, large-sized elements, scrolling effects and metro-style icons and fonts that make your church website look attractive and engaging. the theme is integrated with loads of features that are very useful in running a church website. church and events is bundled with a unique featured slider for pages, blog and portfolio posts. it also comes with the sermons plugin, events calendar pro, and a donation system via paypal. this theme is fully integrated with bbpress to help you establish a strong and interactive online community. it is also woocommerce-ready to help your congregation raise funds by selling products online. more info / download demo the core the core is one of the best multipurpose premium wordpress themes in the market today. it is a retina-ready, high resolution, and mobile-friendly theme. it also includes 20 demos, with more on the way every minute! the core aims for simplicity with headers and layouts pre-built. it uses the popular mega menu to arrange subpages and has unlimited sidebars. the core does not require any coding or programming, thanks to its numerous customized shortcodes. it is also seo-friendly and wpml-compatible. for page building, you get the well-rated drag & drop and contact form. you also get multiple pre-built sliders and color schemes. the core lets you add portfolios, customizable footers and calendar events. it also provides incredible google fonts and social media sharing icons. the core permits you to introduce yourself to the world of online platforms in a quick and painless way. it gives you automatic updates and keeps you in the business with a smooth, minimal, and modern look. to help you in all possible ways, the core has a live demo and one-click install demo. it also has an amazing customer support system via help-desk. it is even woocommerce-compatible for all your monetization needs. get the best easy-going set up experience for your page with the core! more info / download demo ichthys ichthys is a nonprofit organization, charity and church-oriented wordpress theme. it comes with 3 fundamental mottos: pray, love and give. ichthys also has 5 different homepages. they highlighted their welcoming nature with flexible theme-option panel and countless layouts. searches get polished through seo. ichthys also uses visual composer and slider revolution for a fun customized layout design. the purpose of ichthys relies on providing donations, events and sermons. that is why it is compatible with woocommerce and it has a payment banner. it also has 14 tags to provide a wide range of propaganda and publicity. ichthys is present on social media through 4 different platforms. it has an updated events calendar app integrated and linked to google maps. ichthys relies on high-quality resolution and font icons. ichthys is compatible with themeforest files like layered png and layered psd. you will find unlimited sidebars along with friendly widgets. headers are unique, thus they count with several specialized plugins (punchmenu, megamenu, etc). ichthys has over 4 columns and several posting pages ideal for blogs and testimonies. numerous skin colours and fonts are available. donations, publicity, and sermons services are uploaded with youtube and vimeo. feedback is fundamental to their resolve. be part of something with the fulfilling ichthys family. more info / download demo sacredia if you are building a website for your local church, you came to the right place! here we have loads of church wordpress themes that will help you get on track in an instant. upon downloading sacredia, you get a nice assortment of features and layouts which you can take to your advantage right away. there are two main front pages to choose from and several other internal sections that will get you started without hassle! premium plugins at no additional cost, 24/7 support, blogs, events, online shop, you name it and sacredia delivers it. the options you have with sacredia are pretty much endless. combine what’s available with your creativity and you can take your church website to an entirely new degree. more info / download demo shaha shaha is a church wordpress theme for creating a website for an islamic center. it is a modern and attention-grabbing tool with all the available materials that will get you started on the web quicker than you think, starting with four homes. you can install all the demo content with one click. that speeds up the building process even further. nothing is stopping you once you unlock yourself the doors to shaha. with the drag and drop page builder, you can quickly adjust the web design and even create custom layouts if needed – without coding. shaha is also mobile-ready, optimized for search engines, supports multiple languages, mega menu and spices up the experience with parallax effect. to ease the process even more, shaha is packed with in-depth documentation and a team of experts that you have access too at any given time of the day. more info / download demo zegen zegen is a church wordpress theme that gets the ball rolling almost immediately. in fact, you can start with the utilization of the one click wizard and all the rest instantly becomes history. from then on, it is all fun and games. there will be no coding work necessary when doing the job with zegen. thanks to the elementor page builder, you make it happen all with the intuitive method of dragging and dropping. as simple as that! mouse (or trackpad) skills are the only necessity. along with the premade pages and drag and drop page builder, zegen also includes tons of other great features. slider revolution, seo and speed optimization, sermons, contact form 7, custom widgets and mega menu are a few of the amenities that we need to point out. spread the word out now with zegen. more info / download demo deeds2 in this day and age, you do not really need to undergo the tedious process of establishing a website from scratch anymore. with a church wordpress theme, you can experience a smooth and effortless realization of a modern and impactful page. one of the great alternatives is deeds2. there is a horde of main demos available for you to put them into play and shine online. once you find the ideal sample, feel free to stick to it as is and enjoy the outcome unravel right in front of your eyes swiftly. with deeds2, you have your online presence under total control. there are very many features and functions that come along the demo material that will do you well. from sermons and prayers to fundraising, events, galleries, request forms and more, it’s all there. the layout of deeds2 is, of course, mobile and browser compatible, too, so your church page works on all devices and platforms without a hitch. more info / download demo chapel chapel is a super modern, creative and very appealing to the eye church wordpress theme. if you would like to spread god’s will with style, you better not miss checking out chapel. it is an impressive and resourceful solution that will get things moving forward without a sweat. even if you are creating a website for the very first time, you will witness great success with chapel. coding and design knowledge is not necessary, nor do you need to craft anything from scratch. in the chapel kit, you will find all the must-haves for a swift and straightforward realization of your dream page. home and internal page designs await every user, plus a ton of more features. custom shortcodes and widgets, events, portfolio, smooth scrolling, three headers and parallax effect are all the different amenities of chapel. start on the web like a champ with chapel today. more info / download demo x x is a truly remarkable responsive wordpress multiconcept, multipurpose theme. it is uniquely crafted and combines powerful technology with tasteful designs to provide the ultimate theme for all sorts of imaginable websites — corporate, business or personal, big or small. it can cover such a wide range because it’s the only theme out there that is actually several themes in one; not skins, mind you, but whole conceptual themes with skins of their own, called stacks, for building radically different websites. each of these expanded demos empowers you to build entirely different websites both in form and function. church, a newly available expanded demo for x, is an incredibly powerful framework for developing religious websites of all kinds and sizes. it’s a place for people to congregate online, with helpful, convenient, time-saving shortcodes and sections for your sermons, litanies, religious news and newsletters, categorized browsing pages, social media integration and a modest, conservative, fresh-faced and inviting design that will please parishioners old and new, and is sure to make any flock expand in the measure of effort you put into your content. more info / download demo pastor’e pastor’e is a very clean and slick wordpress church, religious and charity website theme. developed as an integrated platform for the effortless creation and design of feature-rich modern websites, catering specifically to the needs and requirements of religious, charitable, ngo and related projects, websites and endeavors. from prayer groups to local congregations, nationwide grassroots religious organizations and spiritual retreats, pastor’e can handle them all with equal, unflinching grace. pastor’e has a robust framework supplied by capable website building plugins and tools such as visual composer, and is expanded with hundreds of convenient elements, support for sticky menus, inclusion of the lovely fontello icon set, hundreds of google fonts, convenient back to top functionalities on any page, one-page and multi-page possibilities for each of pastor’e’s 5 exclusive demo website layouts, tons of header, footer, sidebar and menu customization styles, limitless colors, relaxing animations and transitions, powerful media options and much more. pastor’e lets you reach all corners of the earth with its combination of complete cross-compatible responsiveness, furnished by the bootstrap modular design at its foundation, as well as the integrated wpml plugin. reach out to all of them, with pastor’e! more info / download demo new life new life is a religious wordpress theme. you can dedicate this theme for building the image of non-profit organizations of this kind. it has a clean and sober concept ideal for groups of prayers and churches. new life uses visual composer from drag & drop as page builder. additionally, it features a responsive layout with special design options. it is adaptable to all browsers and screens with ease. social media sharing is also available. new life uses tons of shortcodes to make panel options simpler. it is also seo friendly for quick search performance and translatable. in addition, you can arrange texts and pages with fontello icons and google fonts. similarly, the developers added a slider and many featured layouts styles. colors are unlimited as easy to customize in panel. moreover, you will even get more than 4 columns to arrange posts and live events. furthermore, new life uses themerex plug-in for donations and woocommerce for selling transactions. it is thought for events to be constantly publicized and to make invitations. thus, it has a great calendar and allows audio/video entries. overall, new life will provide tons of documentation and custom support too. get new followers through all of these methods of publicity and specialized page tags. try any of its awesome demos! go for new life! more info / download demo deeds deeds wordpress theme is a minimalist, innovative and well-coded theme created for church, religious propagation, nonprofit organization, ministry, event, donation and fundraising websites. it includes 5 perfectly designed homepages for church websites. it loads faster and is easier to customize compared to other church websites offered in the market. take advantage of its 3 uniquely built homepage layouts, 8 tasteful header styles, and unlimited custom widgets to create an eye-catching church website. it comes with the event management feature that allows you to effortlessly manage past & future events via custom post type & single post page. deeds also include other indispensable church theme features like sermon management, built-in contact forms and news management features. more info / download demo holy cross holy cross is a church and non-profit religious wordpress theme. it comes with a great system for organizations and events. it has a responsive layout with full adaptability to all devices in a smooth design. additionally, holy cross has an awesome shortcode generator to make tasks easier and more personalized. make sections for sermons, testimonies and more. it also has a one-click demo importer and tons of documentation which is very easy to follow. holy cross is woocommerce-ready to handle all donations and funding sales. moreover, it features multiple posting types and google web fonts for texts. you will get css animation and psd files included for awesome images. holy cross is focused on its mission and is truly appealing to the eye. additionally, it uses seo optimization and the drag & drop page builder visual composer. you will also get to arrange posts and galleries with premium quality sliders. holy cross features a newsletter and a faq section. furthermore, it builds a committed communication with its community to make them feel more at home. holy cross offers 2 homepages, 16 blog layouts, 2 headers and more options to come. start building your devoted community with love and strength. this is what this theme will make you project. try right now the amazing holy cross! more info / download demo nativechurch nativechurch is a clean and modern wordpress theme developed for a church, non-profit organizations and other religious websites. the theme is totally responsive and built based on bootstrap framework. as such, your website will adjust gracefully on any screen size, from smartphones, tablets to desktop computers. the theme is retina-ready to display images clean and pixel sharp on your hidpi and retina devices. it has a full-screen header that you can personalize to catch the attention of your followers and target audience. it offers an option to choose between widescreen and boxed layout. moreover, the theme comes with 10 pre-defined color schemes, intuitive mega menu, working contact form, font awesome web-font icons, google fonts support, google maps and many more! the designers also integrated it with features that are indispensable in managing an active online church community. this theme has a built-in events manager plugin, which provides fully functional events management features such as event registration, recurring events, paid events, user management, and church events calendar. so, there is no need to purchase a premium events manager plugin for your church website. additionally, you can use the theme’s built-in sermon manager to create your sermons. you can add your causes in your website and collect donations via the paypal payment system. nativechurch also supports the seamless donations plugin. lastly, this theme also includes many fully functional features such as isotope galleries, multiple slider effects, touch/swipe support for sliders, responsive sorting gallery and lots of powerful shortcodes. more info / download demo divinity divinity is a compelling and responsive wordpress church, nonprofit and charity website theme. this theme is a gorgeous platform for the efficient construction of seamless modern websites within a few minutes. you won’t need to write a line of coding to get the most out of divinity. with the intuitive visual composer, layout customization is easy and breezy. 4 ready-made demo websites let you hit the ground running. you can have your website up and running the same day you set this theme up. built on bootstrap 4, divinity is deeply responsive and perfect for multi-platform appeals. you can reach potential donors or visitors wherever they may be visiting from. stunning typography options and tons of header layout capabilities allow for deep customization. classic and modern church demos, fundraising demos and much more await within divinity. uniquely designed animations keep your audience interested and engaged with your content. a legible design ensures that your content’s readability stays favorable and high. divinity has effective handling of visual elements, resulting in an elegant environment. religious and secular organizations will find a suitable home within divinity. if you want to help others, divinity is what you’re looking for! more info / download demo hopes hopes is a powerful church wordpress theme with a warm and welcoming design. the theme is loaded with sophisticated features necessary in church themes. the theme is completely fluid and responsive, which functions efficiently on different types of modern mobile devices such as ipads, iphones, smartphones, tablets and computers. hopes is bundled with premium plugins like visual composer and slider revolution. the visual composer helps developers and website owners easily build pages and add elements like text, images and buttons to your page or post with the drag & drop page builder. on the other hand, slider revolution enables you to produce impressive and mobile-friendly sliders for your website. it is compatible with the event calendar plugin, a widely used add-on for event management and calendar display for active websites like religious organization, non-profit and church websites, while its church theme content plugin allows you to post and manage sermon, event, person and organize posts by category. you can manage all the customizable aspects of your theme via its advanced theme options panel. this theme also offers an extensive documentation and is optimized for seo performance. more info / download demo church wp church wp is a religious wordpress theme specializing in sermons, donations and event hosting. you will find it easy to craft and with tons of settings for non-profit organizations. premium quality add-ons pack up church wp. it also uses the drag & drop visual composer, with seo optimization. you will get it with clean code and 100% responsiveness. church wp is integrated with the great woocommerce and give donations features. it also uses google maps integration to settle events and sermons locations. the developers also featured multiple headers and footers. church wp comes with wpml compatibility. even a child theme is included! it is a well-documented tool with tons of specialized details. moreover, you will get it with a simple one-click demo install, too. church wp handles html5 and css3 files as it was built with them. furthermore, it is adaptable and friendly to all browsers. you will get awesome pre-built pages and 30+ shortcodes. play along with its multiple sliders like slider revolution and burger style menu. use its 600+ google fonts and make quotes widget to play with text. lastly, church wp includes a supporter’s list, testimonials, and events calendar. what else do you need? come get church wp right away! more info / download demo spiritual spiritual is a sleek and pixel-perfect church website template. it is mobile-friendly, has a rock-solid framework, and is very easy to install. this theme also offers a responsive and flexible design to make certain that it will run smoothly on different kinds of handheld devices. it is retina-ready to make your website look splendid and pixel sharp on your hidpi and high-resolution devices. spiritual is available in boxed and wide layout. it has 4 custom menu locations with drag and drop menu manager. moreover, this advanced church theme also includes custom page templates, sticky top navigation, revolution slider, lightbox effect for pop-up images, custom widgets and powerful shortcodes generator. you can also change the default colors, fonts and other theme elements through its built-in wordpress theme customizer. additionally, you can use the event calendar plugin for event management and keep your followers updated about your current activities and upcoming events in your church or organization. overall, spiritual also makes it easy for you to set up an online store since it is compatible with the woocommerce plugin. more info / download demo heartfelt heartfelt is a multipurpose and unbranded wordpress theme suitable for churches and religious websites. also, this versatile theme is equipped with advanced theme features that are essential getting the word out and letting people actively participate in events hosted by the church or group. heartfelt is quick to install, highly customizable and very easy to manage; perfect for maintaining an interactive church website. it has an exceptionally responsive layout designed for good mobile performance. the developers created this theme to let you target audiences access your website on mobile devices with ease. it also comes with premium plugins like visual composer and slider revolution. the visual composer helps developers and website owners build pages with ease with the drag & drop page builder, while the slider revolution plugin allows you to generate attractive and engaging image sliders for your website. additionally, the theme comes with events calendar system for church event management for a religious organizations, non-profit and church websites. moreover, heartfelt works well with woocommerce plugin that could help you sell any products and services with ease and bbpress plugin that enables you to set up a lively and interactive forum within your church website site. more info / download demo helpinghands helpinghands is a powerful and customizable wordpress church, nonprofit organization and charity fundraising website theme. it’s a powerful theme designed for webmasters with little or no website building experience, empowering them to be able to achieve great deeds online without spending tons of time going through the basics. this theme has already done all the heavy lifting for you, including gorgeous demo websites that are fully functional as soon as you import them with a single click, which is the same process it takes to install helpinghands itself! the notorious visual composer, with ultimate add-ons such as parallax, video backgrounds, animations and icons, as well as helpinghands’ very own advanced theme options, makes the look and feel of your church or charity website completely your own. meanwhile, the unparalleled smoothness of helpinghands’ paypal integration and extensively numerous single or multiple donation fundraising campaigns make this theme one to look out for. woocommerce-ready, helpinghands can easily become a place where you market donated wares for adding even more revenue sources to your campaigns and drives. more info / download demo outreach pro theme a church is one of the most information-intensive organizations. avoid losing your messages. outreach gives you the framework you want, so you can give your people the message they need. outreach is based on the genesis framework, which is highly customizable and easy to use. this theme is the best option for those looking into modifying this theme because genesis has an incredible community around it that has developed loads of free plugins and customization options that you won’t find for any other theme in the market. outreach is a bit pricy, but the package includes genesis, and you can use it for your other websites. the updates are also regular and bring new features. more info / download demo if you couldn’t find the right theme for your church, non-profit or other religious organization on this theme collection you might want to look into this theme collection on which we have also highlighted some of the best wordpress themes for churches. if you more into non-profit and charity organizations then you might want to check this theme collection instead. if you can’t decide which theme is the right one for you, please feel free to leave a comment below and we will be happy to help. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. bbpresschurch themescommunityfundraisingnon-profitportfolioresponsivewordpress themes share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts top 27 wordpress insurance themes for insurance agencies and lawyers 2020 let's have a look at the best and most popular insurance wordpress themes for insurance… 34 consulting wordpress themes to help your consulting business grow online 2020 a huge list of the most modern and professional consulting wordpress themes to supercharge your… 30+ colorful wordpress themes for your website 2019 what is the best way to get as many eyeballs on your content as you… 30 most powerful leisure wordpress themes 2019 being the part of the leisure and tourist business is not a simple matter. the… 20 best wordpress themes for mom bloggers for your inspiration for those of you who are considering that starting a mom’s blog isn’t worth an… top 25 premium nature wordpress themes 2020 looking for a premium nature wordpress theme? you have come to the right place! if… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 10 best wordpress golf themes for golf clubs, golf course websites 2020 next post: 42 best lawyer wordpress themes for private attorneys and law firms 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×