authority seo 2.0 blog about tools contact 31 examples of successful blogs: the most popular blogs in every industry by coral ouellette 46 comments last updated on: october 2, 2019 below is a list of examples of successful blogs. and i don’t mean successful as in they have a niche lifestyle business. each blog listed in this article is earning 6 to 7 figures in yearly revenue. some just make the cut. some are way past it in the 8 to 9 figure range. there are a few reasons why i decided to make this. first, a lot of people are unfamiliar (or unconvinced) that a blog can make a lot of money. and if you take a look at the blogs below, you’ll see that they’re just normal content websites. second, i wanted this to help with niche selection. i’ve found from experience that finding a blog niche is easiest when you have examples to look through. it’s not by scrolling through a long list of random words. instead, it’s by analyzing successful blogs that already exist. each example shown is one of the biggest and most profitable blogs in their given industries. 1. greatist a health and fitness blog backed by science. greatist is a blog that i’ve followed deeply over the years. their focus on creating only the highest quality, science-backed health and fitness articles for millennials has paid off greatly. on the surface, they’re a regular health and fitness blog. behind the scenes, they’re a full-blown media startup with over 10 million visitors per month and an estimated yearly revenue in the 8-figure range. they make this money through ads and by selling sponsored content. what they do well: creating reputable, trust-worthy health content backed by science. this is hard to come by in an industry full of misinformation. visit site 2. nerd wallet a giant affiliate site that dominates seo in the personal finance niche. to build a website like nerd wallet is every affiliate marketer’s dream. they are the leading example of a successful seo blog that crushes affiliate marketing, and they’re doing so in one of the most profitable (and competitive) industries in the world – personal finance. nerd wallet reviews everything from credit cards, mortgages, insurance, and all things finance. the affiliate commissions for financial products like these can get into the hundreds of dollars per referral, which is why they’re worth over $500m. what they do well: understanding search intent and creating the best type of content and user experience depending on the keyword. visit site 3. nomadic matt a travel blog with strong personal branding. there are a ton of travel blogs on the internet. most are personal blogs. they write about their travels and build up a small audience over time. nomadic matt also started as a personal blog about his own travels. today, he’s built up a huge resource with everything you need to know about travelling. what’s crazy is that it’s still a personal blog with only one main author. even to this day, he writes most of the content himself. and he ranks for nearly every keyword based around travel you can think of. there aren’t many single author blogs out there that grow to this size. it takes an incredible amount of time, focus, and persistence to continue pumping out content like he does. what they do well: diversifying income streams by creating and selling their own products. staying small, lean, and extremely profitable. visit site 4. nerd fitness health and fitness advice for nerds and ordinary, everyday people. steve kamb started nerd fitness nearly 10 years ago when he noticed that there were a ton of health and fitness blogs, but nothing catering specifically to him. so he decided to build it himself. instead of targeting anyone and everyone, his blog was directly for… nerds! the interesting part is that the definition of the term “nerd” evolved as the site grew. at first, his audience consisted of people like him – nerds who played computer games and just wanted to get fit. today, his brand has grown into a massive community of regular people who just want to learn how to get fit and have fun doing it. what they do well: differentiating themselves from all the other health blogs by going extremely specific in their audience targeting. visit site 5. art of manliness honest tips and tutorials for becoming a better, more centered man. i first heard of the art of manliness after listening to a mixergy interview. they are a true content site, producing mainly informational blog posts around men’s interests and lifestyle topics. they make money through ads, and they’ve later started selling physical products like mugs, t-shirts, and posters. usually, branded physical products can only work when you have a loyal audience, which obviously they have because 30% of their traffic comes is direct. what they do well: great branding, original design, and sticking to their origin topics of content even a decade after existence. visit site 6. css tricks a giant design and development resource centered around one big influencer. chris coyier is one of the most well-known designers on the internet. and it’s all thanks to his wildly popular design blog, css tricks. like nomadic matt, a large percentage of the articles are written by chris. he started the website in 2007. at the time, it was purely about css – hence the name. today, it’s grown into a huge resource for all things web design and development. i visit this site several times a month myself, mainly to copy and paste in css lines that he shares in his blog posts. what they do well: using his existing audience to launch new products/companies. for example, his website codepen now has 1m users and traffic is double that of css-tricks. visit site 7. the penny hoarder a finance content site that teaches people how to put more money in their pockets. the penny hoarder is a blog around money. their mission is to teach people tons of ways to make more money. it started out as the personal blog of founder, kyle taylor. once it started to take off, he started to bring on new writers, and transition into more of a media company. the most fascinating thing about the penny hoarder is the amount of money they make, and how they make it. last year, they generated close to $40m. and unlike other media companies, they did it without any advertising. instead, they use affilaite marketing by forming partnerships with the right companies. what they do well: using storytelling to write their content to make it more engaging and relatable. they’ll feature or interview interesting people on their site and share how they’re making money. they also do a great job at not coming off as scammy, which is very easy to fall into in the “make money” niche. visit site 8. coindesk the leading cryptocurrency blog. coindesk is a website i visit at least 3 times a week. it’s the most successful cryptocurrency blog in the world, getting over 10 million visitors per month. it was started in 2013 by shakil kha, and then acquired by digital currency group in 2016 for an amount rumored to be around $500,000. today, they’re the go-to source for all news and updates in the blockchain world. they make money through advertising, publishing paid reports, and selling tickets to their conferences. what they do well: establishing themselves as a leader in a new industry. visit site 9. arstechnica a tech blog that people trust. when i’m really interested in new tech (like new macbooks being released), i’m always happy to see ars technica do a piece about it. it was founded a long time ago, in 1998. ten years later, in 2008, it was sold to conde naste for $25m. although they’ve lost readers’ trust a few years back when they attempted to block any visitors using an ad blocker, they’ve rebuilt their reputation by hiring smart writers (most of whom are post-graduates) and writing in-depth pieces of information in the tech world. what they do well: writing really detailed news stories. while most tech blogs merely “report” the news, ars technica analyzes it. visit site 10. bustle a women’s publication about everything. the bustle is a site that i study constantly. it was founded by bryan goldberg after he built and sold bleacher report (a sports blog) for $175m. the reason i’m so interested in bustle is because of bryan’s infamous announcement before starting the company. he claimed that he would build something that’s never been done before: a women’s site that not only talked about fashion but news and pop culture as well. this brought on a fury of haters (which brought in a ton of free links and press coverage 🙂 ), who wrote about the dozens of companies that are already doing just that. another thing that’s interesting is the reason why bryan decided to create this site. after running bleacher report, he realized that a female audience attracted the most advertisers. so he received funding, hired a bunch of people, and created one of the biggest women’s blogs in the world. what they do well: covering every aspect of every story that people are interested in. visit site 11. wellness mama a health and wellness blog for mothers. there are a ton of health and wellness blogs out there. but wellness mama stood out from the pack by being one of the first ones in the space to cater their content specifically to mothers. going ultra targeted with your audience targeting is a very effective way to make your blog unique and develop a strong following. katie wells is someone who used this laser targeting strategy perfectly. although her blog isn’t for everybody, there are a lot of moms out there who agree with wellness mama’s mission of getting the best information for healthier families. what they do well: going ultra targeted with their audience targeting. visit site 12. thought catalog a deeper, emotional blog written by college students. i don’t know if chris lavergne, founder of thought catalog, will appreciate the description above but it’s what i personally think of this blog. thought catalog is like buzzfeed for hipster college students. you’ll mainly see articles about heart break, relationships, and being a stronger person. the coolest thing about thought catalog is how they developed their content. as anyone who blogs will know, it’s difficult to source good content. thought catalog attracts college students, mostly writing majors, to write on their site for free as a way to build their portfolio. it’s “cool” to be published on thought catalog. and as a result, they have hundreds of submissions every single day from some of the deepest, brightest minds all over the world. that’s amazing. what they do well: getting their content for free in an ethical way. coming up with a unique content strategy and executing it perfectly. visit site 13. fatherly a parenting blog for fathers. fatherly is a blog that i researched heavily. it was started in 2015 by mike rothman, one of the co-founders of thrillist. he helped grow thrillist from zero to $100m before leaving to start fatherly. there are a lot of parenting blogs out there, but mike realized that almost all of them are heavily targeted towards moms. furthermore, they often portrayed dads as the goofy one who didn’t know what they were doing. he aimed to change that with fatherly. and he grew it into one of the fastest growing media companies out there growing to $5m in revenue in just two years. what they do well: doing niche and audience research really, really well. have a listen to this podcast and you’ll realize that he takes niche and audience research to a whole new level. visit site 14. apartment therapy a blog about home design and decor. apartment therapy is one of the leading blogs about home design. it was started in 2004 by maxwell and oliver ryan, brothers. maxwell was an interior designer who started an email list to send out design advice to his clients. oliver, who was experienced in media, convinced him he should turn it into a blog instead. and apartment therapy was born. today, their blogs make roughly $20m in revenue. i saw blog(s) because they have another brand as well, which i’ll talk about next. what they do well: scale. seriously, these guys know how to scale a blog really well. check out this report. visit site 15. kitchn a blog about food. maxwell ryan, mentioned above in apartment therapy’s description, started another blog with his then-wife, sara kate gillingham-ryan, just a year after apartment therapy was born. sara was a food blogger, and maxwell took the lessons learned from growing apartment therapy into growing kitchn. today, kitchn gets roughly 20m visitors per month to its site and is one of the largest food and recipe blogs in the world. what they do well: use what they know and apply it over to a new blog. visit site 16. digital spy a blog about movies, tv, and entertainment news. do you want to know the blog responsible for all the #1 rankings for just about any movie or tv show? it’s digital spy. although the blog started way back in 1999, it wasn’t until 2011 when hearst magazines uk purchased it, that it started to dominate the search engines. it’s seriously fascinating to see a single blog dominate every movie or tv show like that. just search for a tv show or movie and they’ll pop up #1. and if you take a look at their title tag, you’ll notice they’ve crafted it perfectly to include every variation of their keyword – each of which gets hundreds of thousands of searches every month. what they do well: dominating the search engines as the #1 authority on all keyword variations for every single movie, tv show. here’s an example of such a page. again, look at that finely crafted title tag 😍 visit site 17. peta pixel a blog to keep you in the loop of everything photography. ranked as one of the top leading photography blogs on the internet, petapixel is sure to keep you in the loop about everything photography. with a variety of sections including industry news, tutorials, equipment and archives, this site is sure to help some of you bloom into professionals by teaching you everything including the fine details of many cameras. they are active on social media with 500k facebook followers and 1m twitter followers. petapixel makes money through ads on their website and by selling mentor photography sessions. what they do well: they dominate the photography industry by covering every category and subject around it. visit site 18. college info geek a blog to help the average college student gain what it takes to succeed in college and beyond. college info geek is offers resources to help college students and others alike win at college or other studious activities. their resources center around study hacks and tactics that will help you cut your study time down, increase recall, and actually help develop your brain. it was founded in 2013 by thomas frank, who graduated iowa state university. they are doing well today with around 800,000 visitors per month considering this blog is extra niche. what they do well in: attracting a very specific target audience. visit site 19. gq formally known as gentleman’s quarterly. gq is a men’s lifestyle style blog based in new york. it was founded in 1931, ages ago, so as you can imagine they have had a fair bit of time to build a brand, strong reputation, and large audience. gq is a massive media company that publishes content around everything for men from grooming to face cleaning routines, fitness, style, and even productivity and work. they also have a magazine line and a newsletter! they make the majority of their income through affiliate links to online stores. they also make a healthy profit money from their magazine subscriptions which is an add on to their site. what they do well in: persistence, longevity, and adapting to change. this publication was founded almost a century ago! visit site 20. tree hugger a blog about making sustainability a trend. treehugger is the leading media outlet for news on sustainability. they are pushing to make sustainability a mainstream topic and they are doing well at it considering they receive over 3m visitors per month. they offer amazing articles on sustainable design, technology, business, clean living and transportation. other than their amazing articles, they also have weekly podcasts on current news conspiracies and new ideas about sustainability around the world. they have a pretty solid team built up of 9 writers all with backgrounds in writing and some kind of education related to environmental sustainability. treehugger makes revenue by putting ads on their blog and was last reported to make approximately $10.4m in annual revenue. what they do well in: staying true to their mission. many blogs in this industry have been guilty of writing about things based on what’s trending – oftentimes publishing things that have nothing to do with their mission. not tree hugger. visit site 21. freshome a blog about inspiring home owners to be “fresh” with their designs and architecture. freshome is a blog built around delivering new and fresh ideas on design and architecture. if you need any inspiration, and i mean any inspiration for your home, this blog has it all. select from a variety of ideas for you kitchen, bathroom, living room, bedroom and even recommendations on designers in your area. wait, it doesn’t end there; they also have a “reviews” section where you can be sure to make the right decision when buying things like furniture, coffee makers, and basically any household item. freshome makes money by putting ads on their site, selling products through amazon affiliate links and even through some other affiliate programs, like disney. freshome receives approximately 1.47m visitors each month, making it one of the leading home design blogs in the world. what they do well in: being the leader in content that inspires. they do this by publishing a lot of image-heavy content. visit site 22. tiny buddha a blog around spreading good vibes. tiny buddha is an important resource for millions of people around the world. in 2009, they emerged as the leading resource for peace and happiness with over 3m visitors each month. today, they get 4m visitors per month and have grown a giant, vibrant community. they publish daily content around minimalism, happiness, relationships, self love, letting go, and much more. what’s really cool is that you can submit your experiences with any of these related topics and your writing could be shared amongst the growing community of subscribers (currently 100,000 emails). tiny buddha makes most of its income through ads, and by selling their own products like apparel, phone cases, books, and even screensavers. what they do well in: building a giant blog and focusing on community rather than just blind page views. visit site 23. smashing magazine the largest online resource for designers and developers. it’s rare to meet any person in a creative field who hasn’t heard of smashing magazine. their site literally has every form content available: articles, ebooks, job postings, and of course, paid memberships. smashing magazine was created in 2009 and started off quite small. they now have a team of 19 staff and get approximately 3m page views per month. what they do good in: ignoring trends and fads, and writing content that creatives are looking for. visit site 24. making sense of cents a blog to make you smarter with money and to teach you how to make income from a blog. making sense of cents is a blog created by a woman named michelle, an expert at paying off debts (and growing a personal blog). she started the site in hopes of sharing her struggles with student loan debt. teaches us different ways of making income through blogging including advice on how to get started. she also has created courses on topics like affiliate marketing and information on sponsored posts. on the financial side, she has written many resources on how to save more and how to make extra money. it seems that her blog is popular amongst the crowd that is interested in earning and saving more money with 300,000 subscribers and many mentions on other sites and in podcasts. what they do good in: tying in her blogging business as a topic on her blog and making it seem together with her main topic of personal finance. visit site 25. pjrvs the business and personal blog of writer and entrepreneur, paul jarvis. paul jarvis’ blog is one of the few that i read every single week. i feel like he’s speaking directly to me. although he writes about a variety of different topics, his core philosophy is about building a smaller and better, not bigger business. i feel like this is why most bloggers enjoy his content, since they’re usually run by a single person or with a small team of less than 10 people. what they do well in: creating content that is relatable on a personal level for people building online businesses. visit site 26. adventure junkies a resource for all things outdoors and adventurous. a little different from the ones mentioned above, adventure junkies is a pure affiliate blog. they have a page for 6 different sports including diving, hiking, paddling, scuba diving, snow sports and mountain biking. each section contains a facebook forum and information about gear, clothing, techniques, training, and more. they make money by selling tangibles like clothing and gear through affiliate links, mainly with amazon. what they do well in: categorizing their site cleanly under one umbrella theme of “adventure”. visit site 27. bark post a blog created to help you get in the mood to spoil your furry best friend. do you like to read about all things dogs? i do! barkpost is a blog created specifically for your fur baby. on their website, they have various sections with many articles about some curiosities dog owners may have, news on latest pet trends, and even advice on travelling with or without your pet. barkpost is actually just a giant content marketing play to get traffic and promote their main business – barkbox. the barkbox is a monthly subscription in which the subscriber (lucky dog) will receive a box each month with themed items such as toys, treats, chews and more. they have currently served just over 600k furry friends and over 2.4m followers on social media platforms. what they do well in: creating a giant blog purely to promote their main business, barkbox. visit site 28. brain pickings a blog about dictating context literature. many of us these days have trouble reading complex pieces of writing. no matter how good it is, it can be extremely frustrating trying to pick the words apart and digest them without truly knowing what they mean. luckily, there’s brain pickings. the solo blogger, maria popova will spend hours reading, listening and rewriting complex topics into easily digestible language. you will find no ads on this website as it is funded solely through donations. readers can decide to donate monthly or just one time. what they do well in: keeping a website afloat based off of donations and consistently pumping out content as a solo writer. she publishes 3 posts per day for her 150,000 email subscribers. visit site 29. pinch of yum a blog about food and how to blog about food. as the name suggests, pinch of yum is a recipe blog. on their website you will find all sorts of mouth watering recipes created by lindsay, the food scientist and creator of the blog. what differentiates this blog from most other food blogs is that there is a whole section dedicated to this site’s previous income reports. in 2011, lindsay started an experiment called the “food blog making money experiment” where she would track all income and expenses of the blog to see if a food blog could actually be profitable. this got a ton of attention from online marketers and bloggers looking to make money from a food blog. what they do well in: being the first to be so public about their business numbers and what goes on behind the scenes of their business. visit site 30. hair romance a blog where a hair enthusiast turned her passion into her business. most people will just search how to do a braid on youtube, but hair romance is far better than any youtube tutorial. this blog is a huge guide on different things to do with women’s hair of all shapes, textures, and cuts. what’s amazing is that this blog has gained an audience of 5m within just 18 months. she has turned her passion into profession and now has 2 e-books and one print book which was a new york times best seller and is available around the world. with a lot of presence of social media platforms like instagram and pinterest, hair romance is capturing the eyes of many women (and men). they make money from the e-books, ads on their site, sponsored posts, and working with brands. what they do well in: growing traffic at a super human level. visit site 31. create and go blogging tips from people who actually run a successful blogging business. create and go is one of the most popular blogs in the marketing industry. it was created by alex and lauren, who wanted to share more than just the same old blogging tips everyone else was sharing. the success of their health blog, avocadu allowed them to quit their jobs and run their blogging business full-time. on create and go, they’ve created one of the best resources on how to grow a blogging business to help people who want to do the same. what they do well in: adding a personal element, and diving deep into the topics they write about. visit site conclusion this list will be ever-growing, meaning i’ll continue to add more examples of successful blogs when i stumble upon them during my own research. hopefully, by analyzing the examples shared above, you got to see what six and seven-figure blogs look like, how they’re monetizing, what kind of content they publish, etc. but most importantly, i hope it helps spark some niche ideas for your own blogging projects. most of the blog niche ideas i get myself are from analyzing and researching other successful blogs. yes, it’s true that most of the blogs shared in this list have a huge editorial staff and a ginormous budget to work with, making it impossible for a single person to compete with directly. but that’s not the point. the point isn’t to copy them directly. the point is to identify what you can build for yourself based on what others are doing successfully. facebook twitter pinterest you might also like... how to sell your content site for the maximum possible profit the top 5 display advertising networks: monetize your blog the right way how to make money with sponsored reviews 46 comments reply sam october 8, 2018 at 9:24 am super insightful chris. i’ve been reading aom for a few years now. and it’s the best. however, i think realmenrealstyle.com could be included in the list. i don’t know the amount they make but they rule the men’s fashion seo. and generates close to 2mn visitors / month. also, i’m surprised not to see neil patel on the list. thanks anyways for the post. i’ve bookmarked it. reply chris lee october 8, 2018 at 4:22 pm cool, thanks sam. i’ll check out the site. there are definitely a ton of big blogs in that space. i included aom because it’s one of the ones i’ve known the longest. reply abu saleh april 11, 2019 at 7:40 am nice to me too reply craig october 8, 2018 at 9:35 am i love this list of examples and sure hope you keeping adding to it. ideas about what works are fine but examples are the fuel that ignites a roaring fire, a fire that erases the darkness so we all can see our way forward. thanks reply chris lee october 8, 2018 at 4:23 pm love the way you described it 🙂 thanks craig. reply theodore nwangene october 8, 2018 at 9:41 am this is so wonderful chris, i’ve always told people that people are making jaw dropping sums out there from blogging alone, you just have to position yourself differently, do what others are not entirely doing, horn your craft, and boom….you’ll crack the code. looking at the blogs above, they all have one thing in common, and that is “consistency”. thanks for being awesome as always chris. btw: what’s your take about adding the “noopener” tag on internal links on a page? that is making it to open in a new tab? someone said it affects bounce rate, and also affects seo. reply chris lee october 8, 2018 at 4:27 pm thanks theodore! noopener is more for performance and security reasons than anything else. not aware of any seo concerns it might bring. reply pavan october 8, 2018 at 10:08 am always a fan of your content chris. reply chris lee october 8, 2018 at 4:27 pm thanks man 🙂 reply edson zandamela october 8, 2018 at 10:31 am hey thanks chris, is it possible to see some income on a new site in 3 months. for example $100 a month? i am struggle to get my first $10 for about a year. that is normal :-p. thanks for the article. reply chris lee october 8, 2018 at 4:28 pm hey edson. it’s possible for sure. but the goal really isn’t to get there the fastest – more to build it properly so that it’s sustainable and you continue growing. reply jim hofman october 8, 2018 at 11:02 am a very interesting list with niche sites covering all sorts of different topics. it appears the key to all these sites is great content, which is terrific news for those of us who enjoy writing. one other common thread with this list – it appears each site was a passion of the original owner. i personally think this is so important; if you’re working on a site make sure it’s in an area of personal interest, strong personal interest. it makes producing content and coming up with content ideas that much easier … reply chris lee october 8, 2018 at 4:30 pm excellent point, jim. yeah the personal bloggers in this list really did a good job at transitioning from a personal blog to a media company. they’ve also been the ones that have stuck with it the longest, since it started as passion project. reply deepak october 8, 2018 at 12:33 pm hi chris! wonderful post mate. quick question : as video consumption is growing day by day, do you think starting a new blog is still the way to go or one should rather start youtube channel/facebook video (&fb watch shows) ? reply chris lee october 8, 2018 at 4:31 pm thanks deepak! video is great if you can do it well. for example, much of fatherly’s early revenue came from video and content on other platforms. however, just because video is growing, doesn’t mean that blogging and written content is dying. reply paulette quann october 8, 2018 at 1:34 pm thank you so much for this list! and while building a profitable blog remains a bit of an untouchable feat to me, the list is encouraging. enviable! reply chris lee october 8, 2018 at 4:32 pm glad to hear that, paulette 🙂 thanks for reading. reply om priyadarshi october 8, 2018 at 1:49 pm hi, please correct the number related to the 12th site, instead of 132, it should be 12. reply chris lee october 8, 2018 at 4:34 pm aha, just fixed it. thanks. reply luke october 8, 2018 at 4:39 pm i think it’s very important to choose the right niche at the very beginning. beginners make a lot of mistakes that is why their progress is slow or there is none at all and they quit. if i started a blog right now i would know much better what to do with it. reply chris lee october 8, 2018 at 6:04 pm thanks for sharing, luke. beginners do make a ton of mistakes. so my advice usually isn’t to find the perfect niche in the beginning. just pick something you have a lot of interest in. reply luigi october 8, 2018 at 6:31 pm awesome piece chris. how many posts/articles you think it takes to be a 7 figure blog ? understanding that seo and social is done. reply chris lee october 9, 2018 at 1:17 am thanks luigi. varies wildly. correct answer is… a lot 🙂 reply bhuboy october 9, 2018 at 1:31 am thanks for sharing this chris, articles like this is what give me hope that in the future what i am doing i what will let me achieve my dream of being with my family while still able to provide for their needs. reply chris lee october 9, 2018 at 11:36 am thanks, bhuboy! reply tyrone patrick fahey october 9, 2018 at 7:45 am thanks for that. great food for thought, it has pushed me in the right direction. keep up the good work mate and god bless! reply chris lee october 9, 2018 at 11:36 am thanks for reading, tyrone. reply mohit kumar october 9, 2018 at 1:08 pm hello chris, i want to ask a question which is in my mind from a long time and only you can answer this question correctly, as you can see people get their answers in google snippets time to time google snippets gets increases which result in low search engine traffic and low ctr from search engines google gets smarter and smarter day by day will a day come where publishers don’t get any traffic from search engines because a niche site totally depends on search engine traffic. what your thinking on this, please answer my question because my main source of income totally depends on organic traffic and this scares me a lot. hope you a reply from you thankyou reply chris lee october 11, 2018 at 10:53 pm i think getting less clicks from google is an issue you can’t ignore, but at the end of the day, they’re still a search engine – they search for the best webpages on the internet and present them to their users. some searches are fit for a quick answer through the answer box, but not all of them are. reply xtechkr october 11, 2018 at 2:49 pm thank you so much! great website, great post! very informative. reply chris lee october 11, 2018 at 10:51 pm thanks 🙂 reply seppe october 24, 2018 at 9:42 am chris is the “outdoors ” a niche? or is that too broad? reply chris lee october 25, 2018 at 2:46 pm depends on what you’re comfortable with. with a broad niche like that, it’s going to require a ton of content in each different “outdoor” category. reply seppe october 26, 2018 at 6:31 am yea i thought so .. after thinking about my question, i think its too broad. i think now its better to niche down a little bit. i can not build authority its too broad for me. hell even the niche cycling is too big i have to niche a little bit more 🙂 reply chris lee october 27, 2018 at 11:57 pm yeah, it depends on what you’re comfortable with. reply saleh november 13, 2018 at 1:23 pm hi chris that was a great one! i have a question regarding niche selection is this a good target “helping new and motivated online entrepreneurs set up their websites” is that something good to target? thank you reply chris lee november 16, 2018 at 2:21 pm thanks saleh 🙂 it’s a really tough niche for seo, but if you can get some traction a site like that is usually really profitable (most of the times it’s through hosting affiliate commissions). reply gareth february 8, 2019 at 11:10 am hi chris, i have been a follower of nomadic matt, for a few years now. it’s great to see them doing well. i have decided to niche down on my site and it seems to be easier to produce content. when i plan the blog calendar for each article, the articles are in the same verticle so that keeps traffic engaged. thanks gareth reply chris lee february 12, 2019 at 2:12 pm awesome! thanks for reading, gareth 🙂 reply gautam february 10, 2019 at 4:54 am hey chris, have you left working on adsense website’s/blog’s ?, it’s been so long you haven’t put anything about adsense. reply chris lee february 12, 2019 at 2:10 pm i do, but there’s not much more to write about 🙂 it’s simply just copy and pasting in the code – and it’s more about working on what affects earnings most – building lots of traffic that’s more interesting. reply victoria tan february 14, 2019 at 8:57 am hi chris, what a great list. i’ve heard a lot that blogging is an easy way to make cash and now i am looking forward to make money from my blog. i am aware not all tips are going to work for me that is why i am more than willing to tweak my methods to see what works best for me and my readers. if you were me, what option will you start with? reply jobin february 22, 2019 at 1:31 pm good idea, thank you for your creative blog, coral ouellette. sure i will make my blogs successful reply acha acha april 15, 2019 at 11:00 am a lot of people say blogging is easy,but since i started blooging at saturdayblog24.com i have not made 1dollars,so i am leaving blogging and going into forum,i already designing my forum at gggvscanelo2.com,chris what do you think about my decision? reply rahul yadav may 22, 2019 at 10:45 am love these types of posts. so inspirational! good work to all recognized here! reply maxim dsouza july 9, 2019 at 1:23 am this is a great list. i knew some of these blogs while some others were interesting and new. please look at my https://productiveclub.com, which has helped many people improve their productivity in the last 3 months. i have created the blog to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity and help people begin their journey of chasing their dream goals. the intent of this blog is for more people to break out of their shackles of regular jobs and pursue their passion. needless to say, all content on the website is entirely free. i will leave it to your own judgment if my blog is worthy enough to be included on this list. cheers, maxim dsouza leave a reply cancel reply zero to 100k with seo a free 5-part seo email course that will show you step-by-step how to grow traffic from zero to 100,000 visitors per month (with search). sign up for free zero to 100k with seo a free 5-part seo email course that will show you step-by-step how to grow traffic from zero to 100,000 visitors per month (with search). sign me up © 2019 rankxl. all rights reserved. | contact | twitter zero to 100k with seo free 5-part mini-course. enter your email to get lesson #1. email* send me the first lesson enter your email below to get the zero to 100k mini-course email* send me the first lesson