wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » 32 best woocommerce plugins for your store (most are free) 32 best woocommerce plugins for your store (most are free) last updated on february 18th, 2020 by editorial staff 1.1k shares share tweet share pin are you looking for the best woocommerce plugins for your store? plugins are the best part of making an online store using woocommerce. they allow you to add new features and grow your business. there are tons of free and premium plugins that you can use but not all of them are good. how do you find out the best woocommerce plugins for your ecommerce business? in this article, we have hand-picked some of the best woocommerce plugins for your store to increase sales and grow your business. if you haven’t started your online store yet, then we have a step by step guide on how to start an online store with woocommerce. it walks you through how to choose the best woocommerce hosting, install woocommerce, select a theme, and everything that you need. having that said, let’s take a look at the best woocommerce plugins for wordpress. 1. trustpulse trustpulse is the best fomo and social proof notifications app that helps you skyrocket conversions and sales. people like it when they see other people making the same choices before making their own mind. by adding social proof, you allow them to see it right there on your website and give them the nudge to complete a purchase. trustpulse makes this insanely easy. you can install it on any website (no coding required) and customize badges to match your store colors. you can smartly target pages or products where you want to run a campaign, and add on-fire notifications showing how many people are taking action in a given period. for best results, run multiple campaigns targetting customers viewing different products or pages. you also get a full live stream of actions taken by users and detailed analytics reports to help you optimize your campaigns. for detailed instructions see our guide on how to use fomo to increase conversions. 2. optinmonster optinmonster is the most powerful conversion optimization software in the market. it helps you convert abandoning website visitors into subscribers and customers. you can use it on your ecommerce website to reduce cart abandonment, increase sales conversion, grow your email list, show targeted website messages, onsite retargeting, and more. if you’re serious about growing your email list and boosting sales, then you need this conversion optimization toolkit. 3. monsterinsights monsterinsights is the best google analytics plugin for woocommerce stores. it comes with enhanced ecommerce tracking which allows you to easily track ecommerce data in google analytics reports. many beginners find it hard to make sense of google analytics reports. monsterinsights makes it easier by showing you all the information you need inside your wordpress dashboard. this helps you make data-driven decisions to grow your business and increase sales. you can use it to find your most viewed products and improve product pages. you can also track woocommerce customers in google analytics and create a more personalized experience for your users. 4. constant contact constant contact is the best email marketing service for ecommerce businesses. it is also the most beginner friendly, which allows you to easily add it to your store and start building your email list. it comes with dozens of professionally designed email templates for various niches. you can also create multiple lists and create custom funnels to send personalized emails to selected audiences. to learn more, see our complete tutorial on how to create an email newsletter. alternative: drip and sendinblue are also both great options. 5. advanced coupons advanced coupons advanced coupons is the best woocommerce coupon code plugin on the market. it extends the limited woocommerce coupon functionality and allows you to create better coupon offers. it integrates tightly with woocommerce and offers features like bogo offers (buy one get one offer), coupon urls, scheduled coupons, auto-apply coupons, shipping coupons, and more. it is easy to use and helps you boost sales on your online store. 6. woocommerce wholesale suite /a> woocommerce wholesale suite is a suite of three plugins that allow you to easily set wholesale pricing in woocommerce for bulk buyers and other businesses. you can easily show wholesale pricing to wholesale customers. you can also set minimum quantity they need to order to avail the wholesale discount. at the same time, you can keep showing your regular prices to the retail customers. for details, see our tutorial on how to easily add wholesale pricing in woocommerce with step by step instructions. 7. livechat did you know that on average, more than 67% of customers abandon their carts before completing a purchase? that’s because customers want instant answers to their questions. livechat is the best live chat support software on the market. it allows you to easily add live chat to your woocommerce store and answer user queries instantly. it allows you to convert users into customers before the abandon their carts. livechat works with google analytics, all top email marketing, crm software, and more. to learn more see our guide on how to add livechat to your woocommerce store and boost sales. alternative: if you’re looking for a chatbot software, then take a look at chatbot.com because it can help automate a lot of ecommerce livechat. 8. yith woocommerce wishlist yith woocommerce wishlist plugin allows your customers to save products to their wishlist. they can use the wishlist to make the purchase later or share their wishlist with friends and family. this is a perfect addon for your online store during busy holiday seasons when people are making their shopping lists and purchasing gifts. 9. woocommerce multilingual non-english wordpress websites surpassed the english wordpress websites in 2014. since then more woocommerce stores are created in languages other than english. woocommerce multilingual adds compatibility layer with the popular wpml wordpress multilingual plugin. this allows you to translate your product and other woocommerce pages in multiple languages. your customers can choose to browse your website in their preferred language. 10. woocommerce products slider woocommerce products slider allows you to easily create beautiful product sliders and carousels and add them anywhere on your woocommerce store. 11. rafflepress rafflepress is the best contest and giveaway plugin for woocommerce stores. it allows you to grow your email list, get more website traffic, and social media followers with viral contests and giveaways. your users can participate in the giveaway by performing social actions like tweeting, watching a video, following a social media profile, and more. it has actions for all popular social media platforms, crms, and more. for best results, it includes verified social actions and fraud prevention. this ensures that your viral campaign produces real engagement and growth in your business. 12. woocommerce customizer woocommerce customizer provides an easy user-interface to use built-in woocommerce filters. these filters allow you to customize things like button text, labels, fields, and much more. normally, you would have to write php code to use these filters. with woocommerce customizer, you can easily use those filters from a simple settings page (no coding necessary). 13. wp mail smtp by wpforms woocommerce store sends email notifications for various actions to the store owner as well as customers. it uses the php mail() function to do that. however, most wordpress hosting companies don’t have this function setup properly and some even block it. in that case, your store’s email features will not work. wp mail smtp fixes this problem by allowing you to use an smtp service provider to send emails. this ensures that your woocommerce emails are delivered to users inbox and don’t end up in spam. the paid wp mail smtp pro version gives you premium support, more features, and white glove setup service. 14. woocommerce eu vat compliance as the name suggests, this simple plugin makes your woocommerce shop compliant with the new eu vat. it will automatically detect your customer’s location and will display prices with correct vat from the first page. 15. order delivery date for woocommerce this plugin allows users to choose a delivery date for products during the checkout. woocommerce store owners can see the desired delivery date on their orders page in the admin area. 16. yith woocommerce quick view woocommerce quick view allows your customers to peek into product details by simply taking their mouse over a button. this enables customers to quickly get the product information without leaving the product listings or shop page. users will be able to see a larger product image, product description, and an add to cart button in a lightbox popup. 17. woocommerce pdf invoices & packing slips this nifty plugin allows you to send pdf invoices and packing slips to customers via email. users can also download their invoices and slips from their account area. as a site admin, you can also bulk generate invoices, download them, and email them to users from an admin area. 18. yith woocommerce compare as the name suggests, this plugin allows your customers to compare two or more woocommerce products side by side. you can choose which fields users will see in the comparison table and reorder them as needed. 19. woocommerce menu bar cart normally, your woocommerce theme would prominently display a cart button at the top. however, if your theme doesn’t show a cart button, or you don’t like its placement, then woocommerce menu cart will fix this for you. it allows you to add the cart button into your wordpress navigation menu. it works with any wordpress theme and will display cart icon, items and price in your navigation menu. 20. yith woocommerce ajax search speed is crucial for the success of any website, particularly for online stores. a single second delay in page load can significantly increase cart abandonment and lower user engagement. yith woocommerce ajax search offers a powerful search feature to instantly display products as users start typing. it uses ajax to fetch the results which means your users can search without leaving the page they are currently viewing. 21. woocommerce checkout field editor do you want to add custom fields to woocommerce checkout page? the woocommerce checkout field editor plugin allows you to easily add, customize, and rearrange fields on the checkout page of your online store. this allows you to customize the whole checkout experience for your customers and use the data to grow your business. 22. minimum purchase for woocommerce minimum purchase for woocommerce allows you to setup minimum purchase rules to your products. you can add rules for a single product or create rules for a product group. the plugin also allows you to apply rules on minimum purchase amount or quantity, set different rules based on user role, and set up custom messages to display when rules are not matched. 23. pw woocommerce gift cards pw woocommerce gift cards makes it super easy to sell gift cards on your store. customers can purchase gift cards and share them with friends or family to redeem at your online store. the plugin comes with a beautiful gift card email template and an admin section to view your gift card liabilities. your customers can specify the gift card amount, recipient, and add their own personal message during the purchase. 24. woocommerce currency switcher as the name suggests, this plugin allows your customers to easily switch currencies and get real time conversion rates in their local currency. you can add the currency switcher by using the shortcode or a sidebar widget. 25. woocommerce colors woocommerce colors adds a woocommerce section to the theme customizer where you can change the color of buttons and other woocommerce elements. it is simple and highly useful if you want to customize woocommerce elements without adding any custom css. 26. woocommerce products filter woocommerce products filter allows your site customers to filter products by categories, attributes, product tags, product custom taxonomies, and price. you can add the filter anywhere using the shortcode or the sidebar widget. 27. woocommerce shortcodes woocommerce comes with a bunch of shortcodes that you can use throughout your website to add products, buttons, and more. the woocommerce shortcodes plugin adds a drop down in your wordpress visual editor, allowing you to easily select and insert shortcodes in content areas like post, page, or products. 28. booster for woocommerce booster for woocommerce allows you to add several useful features to your woocommerce website that allow you to run your online store more efficiently. it uses a modular approach similar to jetpack and acts like a plugin suite with tons of features. 29. custom product tabs for woocommerce normally, product pages require users to scroll down to view more information. custom product tabs for woocommerce allows you to divide product description and details into tabs. this helps users switch to the section they want to view while making sure that your website looks neat and organized. 30. variation swatches for woocommerce variation swatches for woocommerce allows you to easily add product variation swatches to woocommerce product attributes. customers will then see beautiful color swatches, images, and labels, instead of dropdown menus. this makes it easier for users to select product colors, sizes, styles, and more. it also makes these options easily noticeable and improves customer experience. 31. yith woocommerce zoom magnifier yith woocommerce zoom magnifier let’s your customers zoom in and magnify the product images without leaving the page. it also adds a product image gallery slider below the featured image. this helps your customers look into product images with more details visible. this increases customer engagement in your store, which brings in more sales. 32. wpforms every website needs a contact form. wpforms is the best drag & drop form builder plugin for wordpress. it lets you create any type of form including contact forms, online surveys, polls, and more. wpforms free version lets you create a simple contact form and has all the essential features. wpforms pro comes with advanced features like form landing pages, conversational forms, form abandonment, smart conditional logic, etc. that you can use to really improve your form conversions. bonus – 33. nextiva having a phone number for your online store can help boost trust and credibility. nextiva is the best business phone service that works seamlessly with woocommerce. it’s a virtual business phone app, so you can use it to receive calls on your mobile phone, ipad, desktop and laptop computers. it comes with advanced features like call-routing, auto-attendant, and others, so your store can easily compete with the big enterprises without the high costs. once you have setup your business voip, you can then use the free wordpress call button plugin to add a click to call button on your online store. we hope this article helped you find some of the best free woocommerce plugins for your online store. you may also want to see our expert pick of the best woocommerce themes for your ecommerce website. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 1.1k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 46 commentsleave a reply taque says: aug 26, 2019 at 12:48 pm please give me a solution to fix this issue. product issue in google search console 1.no global identifier provided (e.g., gtin, mpn, isbn) 2.missing field “aggregaterating” 3.missing field “review” 4.missing field “brand” thanks reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 9:11 am most seo plugins should be able to help with 1 and 4. for 2 and 3 that would require your product to have a rating from your users to remove the error. reply dee says: jun 20, 2019 at 7:41 pm hey there looks like this plugin has been discontinued. “gift-cards-for-woocommerce” this plugin was closed on may 2, 2019 and is no longer available for download. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 21, 2019 at 10:10 am thank you for letting us know about this for when we update the article reply ashin says: jun 14, 2019 at 3:29 am i think you can also add woocommerce custom product addons too in the list. it helps you to add custom fields for the products like attributes. and it has a lot of features in it. really amazing! reply wpbeginner support says: jun 14, 2019 at 10:41 am thanks for sharing your recommendation reply stephen picardi says: may 8, 2019 at 4:30 pm 16. woocommerce gift cards is no longer available. reply wpbeginner support says: may 9, 2019 at 11:30 am thanks for letting us know, we’ll be sure to keep an eye out for a replacement reply neha says: mar 29, 2019 at 8:33 am any plugin for woocommerce with date and time feature? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 29, 2019 at 10:49 am it would depend on what type of date and time feature you’re looking for. reply ashin says: jun 14, 2019 at 3:32 am are you looking for a plugin to add date & time fields in the product page? i suggest woocommerce custom product addons. it has a lot of features. reply ken says: mar 27, 2019 at 3:06 pm i think woosignal should be on the list, my store runs on an ios app template they created, really cool stuff. i think it’s just woocommerce apps they offer but i’m happy so far! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 28, 2019 at 10:48 am thank you for sharing that, we’ll certainly take a look at it. reply sohaib says: mar 11, 2019 at 4:43 pm hi sir, i want to know that how we can add a price filter for products on discount only? filter may be like filter by “discount from low to high “and filter by” discount from high to low”. can you guide me about this? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: mar 12, 2019 at 10:38 am for that, you would want to take a look at the plugin we recommend in our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-let-users-filter-posts-and-pages-in-wordpress/ reply ismaheel says: feb 17, 2019 at 12:45 am please which plugin can i use? i”m building a website whereby i want to pay my members for the action they perform on my website and i want to have different plans for their membership subscription reply wpbeginner support says: feb 18, 2019 at 2:04 pm for that, you would want to take a look at membership plugins and ask if they have a system to do that. for some membership plugins you can take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/5-best-wordpress-membership-plugins-compared/ reply palle says: jan 30, 2019 at 4:52 pm im thinking of making a woocommerce shop for alkarmsystems, but its important that the customer can see the products they put in the basket at all time while shopping. forex. i the side of the page. i’ve been told there is a plug-in or setting for it, but cant seem to find itp reply wpbeginner support says: jan 31, 2019 at 11:07 am woocommerce does have a cart widget for what it sounds like you’re wanting reply paul says: jan 13, 2019 at 11:07 am my wife sells prints of her paintings in woocommerce. they are all set up as variable products with different size/price combinations. please could you recommend a way of highlighting a product to show that the original painting is available. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 14, 2019 at 2:27 pm we will certainly look into it but you may want to check with woocommerce to see if they have a recommended method for what you’re wanting. reply emmanuel says: jan 1, 2019 at 1:43 pm please i want to build a website for selling books online, i want a plugin that can help people to pay before downloading the pdf book reply wpbeginner support says: jan 2, 2019 at 1:51 am hi emmanuel, if it is just one book then you probably don’t need a full fledged ecommerce platform. please see our guide on how to accept credit card payments in wordpress. reply thomas says: apr 26, 2018 at 1:15 pm i am seeking to build a website for a public charity. i would like to set up a page for visitors to make donations. is there an e commerce plug-in for donations. a link to paypal would be nice also. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: apr 26, 2018 at 8:02 pm hi thomas, please see our article on how to add a donate form for nonprofit organization using wordpress. reply rudy says: feb 14, 2018 at 1:48 pm although this is great information, this post addresses plugins for a woo commerce theme, rather than plugins that can be used on a wp theme that utilizes woo commerce. can any of these plugins be used on a non-woo commerce theme? thanks. reply suz says: feb 8, 2018 at 9:23 pm hello great article, thank you for sharing. would you happen to have a video on how to create a drop-shipping store using wordpress/woocommerce? i appreciate your time. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 10, 2018 at 10:45 am hey suz, not for drop-shipping at the moment, but we do have how to create an online store with woocommerce. reply john says: dec 23, 2017 at 4:07 pm sorry, some plugins have been removed. but thanks for sharing. i have now installed some of these free plugins, making my new store look great! merry christmas to you. wishing you a happy near year 2018 from juba, south sudan. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 25, 2017 at 4:12 pm hi john, thanks for the feedback. merry christmas and happy new year to you as well reply trevor parnham says: mar 12, 2017 at 11:44 am i have a real shop and i use a mssql database to manage sales , checkout and stock levels via some inhouse developed applications. i am now trying to build an online store uswing wordpress and woocommerce. how can i link to my mssql database to populate my online store and manage sales, checkout and stock levels. the object is to use the same database to drive both the online store and the real store. reply medora purrier says: mar 9, 2017 at 10:48 am thanks this will save me money reply vishnu talanki says: feb 21, 2017 at 12:10 pm i’m so glad that i found your blog! reply pamela says: feb 14, 2017 at 10:14 am i’m i the only one with woocommerce plugin issues? is like none of the free plugins i tried so far works, and i mean no-ne of them. could i get some help, please? reply josh says: oct 18, 2017 at 5:46 am pamela please get in touch if you still need help. it sounds as if you are using a non-woo theme. reply prettypenguin says: aug 2, 2016 at 9:55 pm hi, which product filter do you recommend? reply allison lee says: jul 4, 2016 at 3:32 pm hi: i’m using woocommerce for my website. on the shop page, there are no margin on the page. all the text and photos are too close to left hand side. there are no space. what do i have to do? reply georges tomazou says: dec 15, 2016 at 3:40 am write some css…. first search for the page id in thr inspector navigation, and then add css codes like this: .page-id-123 { right: 20%; left: 20%; } adjust the percentage as needed regards reply sarah says: apr 4, 2016 at 7:12 am thank you for sharing appreciated. with hundreds of free plugins available such posts help to narrow down our search for good plugins. anyone has an idea if there is a free plugin for store credits. thanks again reply doug says: nov 20, 2015 at 2:43 am been using woocommerce for a few years now and there are a lot of new plugins here to check out. great looking list if they check-out…ie. are well rated and regularly updated with a solid team behind them. i’ll surely have a go through the list this weekend. karrie, as for stripe, coming from someone who’s never used it but read an awful lot on it…it comes highly recommended. this article is an from 2012 by chris lema, as far as i know he still uses it. he’s another excellent developer to follow. thanks again for a great list. reply john celas says: oct 19, 2015 at 5:28 am i’ve recently found a plugin called followprice. it’s a price drop and availability alert for your customers. i think it’s a must have for any online store. cheers reply tim carr says: sep 29, 2015 at 9:52 am great article, thanks for sharing. reply p v ariel says: sep 27, 2015 at 4:11 pm hi syed, great list here! need more time to check/test it out! 22great list+a wonderful bonus. thanks for sharing reply mark mcginnis says: sep 27, 2015 at 9:11 am yes! i use stripe. works great and will be next in line this year competing with paypal for online purchases in my opinion. their price plans and i sternest rates are like paypal as well. reply karrie says: sep 25, 2015 at 11:31 am is the stripe for woocommerce safe? do you have any feedback from anyone who has used it? reply thomas says: mar 10, 2017 at 7:43 am yes it’s very safe. on top of that, card data is never stored anywhere, all is done through stripe. imo it’s best payment gateway reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) weglot coupon get 15% off on weglot multilingual plugin for wordpress. bluehost coupon get over 63% off on bluehost packages and a free domain of your choice. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.