home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy third trimester prevnext 33 weeks pregnant – it’s my birthday and baby shower this week! leyla preston sun 24th oct 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 33 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. it was my birthday this week! my family and close friends took me out to a nice turkish dinner at the weekend which was great. i stuffed myself with such great food and enjoyed getting out of the flat for a change, conversing with people other than hubby (no offence to hubby of course!) i had a double celebration this week which really boosted my mood. my friends and sisters had thrown me a lovely surprise baby shower, which was so nice of them – i felt so loved. a few of my friends turned up too and brought me such nice gifts for the baby. we ate plenty of food and enjoyed ourselves with lots of pregnant banter and talk about kids and growing up. the cake was delicious and the party really perked me up – the two celebrations have definitely put me on course for a much better mood. the flat is coming along nicely now. the flooring is almost complete, which is great so that we don’t have to deal with dusty concrete floors anymore. and, finally, the engineer came to fit the internet which i was particularly happy about as it had got so boring without the internet at home. i didn’t waste any time and immediately got down to work, catching up on literally hundreds of emails. it felt good to work on my second baby (my blog) again. i had to say, i definitely missed blogging! i can feel a lot of movement coming from my tummy and i can also feel that boxer is finding it difficult to shift around in there because of the lack of room. i still have a really strong craving for sugar, but i’ve decided that it’s probably just down to the lack of energy at the moment. i also went through a phase of needing roast dinners, so i had three of those in one day, but that craving went as quickly as it came… i still can’t shake off the need for coffee either. every time i smell coffee in the air, my nose makes a beeline for where the smell is coming from! i thought people were supposed to go off coffee? i’m the opposite! i’ve started to plan the nursery now. i took measurements for the room and worked out how much everything would cost – about £200 which is not bad as that includes everything, apart from furniture. i’m definitely going to go with the sky and undersea theme and even bought an undersea mural which is going to look awesome as a border around the room. i found out that there is a birth centre literally right next to my flat and the rooms are amazing! i was sold the moment i walked into the place. i was given a tour of the centre – there are six rooms, one with a double bed, and each has a birth pool (which is huge by the way), a toilet, a shower and a bath. each room even has a tv, candles and radio! i’m definitely aiming for a water birth in one of these holistic calming birth centres – i hope boxer complies! i went to my new gp to have a check-up with the midwife at a children’s centre down the road from me. they spotted some nitrate in my urine, but they reckon it may be a tampered sample as i am not displaying any symptoms of a urine infection. so they just told me to go home and drink plenty of fluids, including water and cranberry juice. i drink about 2 litres of water a day so i’d be quite surprised if i had a urine infection. the midwife also told me that i needed to make sure the new maternity notes were registered to me before the birth as the birth centre can’t accept another hospital’s notes. apparently, every hospital has its own way of doing things and their own abbreviations for medical words. so it’s safer if i get new maternity notes from the birth centre that i’m giving birth in. i arranged another appointment at 36 weeks where i may have to take my bloods again if my recent blood test results don’t come through by that time. the unit is going to chase for the results and let me know when they receive it. they also told me that my bump is a nice size at 31cm too. i learned that the size of the bump should roughly be the same as the number of weeks that you are pregnant. it’s a good way to work out where you are in the pregnancy should you ever forget. a fun fact – the baby is about as big as a pineapple! the science part your baby at 33 weeks your baby’s head is as big as celery! you’re still going to feel tightening – or braxton hicks contractions – until birth. they aren’t painful but they can happen if you overdo it – so take it easy! your baby’s eyes are staying open while they’re awake and they’re starting to coordinate their breathing with sucking and swallowing in preparation for the outside world your baby’s bones are hardening too and they’re going through major brain development too for all that learning when they greet the world outside! your pregnancy signs and symptoms you’re probably feeling quite uncomfortable now and overheating quite a bit. if you’re experiencing headaches that are down to the hormone surges. but, other factors can be stress and dehydration so make sure you’re drinking plenty of water and taking it easy as much as possible. don’t worry about the extra ladies’ trips – it’s better than getting headaches and a painful uti! baby brain is in full swing now! i experienced pregnancy brain with all four of my pregnancies – it’s quite common! start reading up about labour and birth if you haven’t done so already. it’s a good idea to learn about breathing techniques too and start practising them in time for the birth your next steps now is a good time to start preparing your hospital bag also start reading up on postnatal care, like medication, maternity pads, nursing pads. it may be still another month till you meet your baby, but at least you’ll be prepared for a surprise arrival if baby can’t wait until 40 weeks to meet mummy! don’t forget to monitor your baby’s movements – any reductions or changes and you need to let your midwife or doctor know asap! note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:appointmentbabybaby showerbirth centrebirthdaycheck upcravingdietdrinkingexhaustionfriendsgphospitalhospital noteshydratedmaternity notesmovingnitratenurserypregnancypregnantrelationshipssurpriseturkishurine testwaterweek 33 related posts how to learn a language during your preg... thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... planning for the baby budget: how to pre... are electronic cigarettes a suitable alt... 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... ted’s birth story 5 weeks pregnant – can you feel th... how to support your loved one when they ... 7 weeks pregnant – i’m tired all t... nursery rhymes finger food creations wit... how to keep your style during maternity becoming a dad 13 weeks pregnant – ultrasound scan day! the benefits of walking during pregnancy the wait to become pregnant continues... is it safe to use self-tanner while preg... bruce’s birth story the top pregnancy must-haves list for ex... the truth about pregnancy and childbirth little learners books review press release – launch of motherhood dia... life after birth – back to work or work ... simple hacks to spruce up your nursery f... what it feels like to be overdue… 22 weeks pregnant – braxton hicks ... nannies, child minders or nursery obliga... back to school essentials – how to prepa... 25 weeks pregnant – i have a noctu... pregnancy & stis: what to do what to pack in your hospital bag for la... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok