skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » photography » 34 best wordpress themes for photographers & photography enthusiasts to showcase portfolio with style 2020 34 best wordpress themes for photographers & photography enthusiasts to showcase portfolio with style 2020 january 7, 2020 aigars silkalns photography, theme collections 4 comments we often take photography for granted. all of us grew up in a world that did not deprive us of this wonder, but for the first few people who had the pleasure of witnessing it, it was truly a wonder. imagine the ability to freeze a moment in time, capturing it for posterity. we only take it for granted because we have grown accustomed to it. probably the most common device on the planet is the smartphone, and they all have incorporated cameras. from film to cloud services, pictures have certainly come a long way. it is in this technological expansion that we find not only a way of keeping memories, but also an artist outlet. if done right, the beauty of a picture can rival that of a painting. if you are talented enough, do not threat, there will be plenty of monetary incentive! picture blogs and sites are quite prolific, and their growth shows no sign of slowing down. however, many artists are not that tech-savvy, and that can be a disadvantage when considering the need for a well-developed website. wordpress is a social online platform that can aid in your plight. a sprawling community of plugin developers and theme designers has arisen, encouraged by the need for quality content. after you set up the basic framework, a website needs to gain some features, aesthetic enhancements, and menu improvisation. wordpress themes can offer you that, and more. both free and premium, they give the accurate impression of an online profile was crafted with love and respect towards the subject matter. as a photographer, you must dedicate your life to the pursuit of beauty, and finding it in still, timeless frames. let’s take a look at some of the best themes for photographers: uncode uncode is an incredibly beautiful and modern multipurpose wordpress theme for photographers. it’s a gorgeous and easy to use solution for webmasters with or without previous development experience across a wide variety of applications and archetypes. with uncode, you will be able to craft the most engaging, modern and staggeringly attractive websites within a matter of minutes. uncode is a favorite of creative types due to its capacity for thorough customization, which makes uncode at its heart one of the most flexible themes on the market today. with sleek plugins such as ilightbox and a specially tailored version of the wpbaker page builder, showing off your creative works to the world at large in extremely effective compositions, with beautiful galleries and amazing templates that make uncode a favorite of photographers the world over. with uncode’s woocommerce readiness out of the box, marketing your works directly off your own photography website has never been easier or simpler. try uncode now! more info / download demo photosy with the included nineteen predesigned demos, photosy is one large wordpress theme for photographers. along with the ready-to-use layouts, photosy delivers a ton of other features and assets that you can put to use straight away. of course, you need to first gain access to it. however, before you fully commit, make sure you first check the live preview of the tool and let it amaze and impress you. sit tight because you might get blow away otherwise. the easy to use drag and drop site customization enables you to instantly make changes to the web design and tailor it to your needs. no matter how picky you are, photosy is here to treat your right. bring your terrific photographies to the web and start seeing success for yourself. hobby and professional photographers, photosy is for both. utilize it to its full potential and see something magical happen. more info / download demo kalium kalium is a gorgeous and highly appealing wordpress creative portfolio theme for photographers. it’s a bright and colorful website building platform, a solution for webmasters with or without previous development experience to effortlessly create amazing websites capable of eloquently making visual statements that reach a wide and indistinct massive online audience. kalium is perfect for photographers, photojournalists and photography aficionados, or anyone sitting on vast collections of high-resolution imagery that needs a capable and competent, sleek and engaging soapbox for their works to be seen by the world at large. kalium has plentiful options for you to customize the end-user experience of visitors browsing through your galleries or photography portfolios, as well as thorough dribbble portfolio integration. a myriad photo hovers effect animations are offered within kalium, ensuring you always find the right way to frame your content for your audience. features like the wpbakery page builder, revolution slider and layerslider make short work of website building tasks and layout customization as well, while a ton of demo websites are readily available to get you started off on the right foot. try kalium today, and give your images new life! more info / download demo thegem thegem is an attractive and responsive photographer wordpress theme for multiple use. this theme has been created to be a one-stop-shop solution for all your website building needs, regardless of the nature of your content. thegem includes resourceful widgets, premium plugins, expansive collections of templates and a myriad of thoughtful features meant to improve your end-user experience. requiring absolutely no coding skills, thegem deploys the advanced wpbakery page builder alongside a set of over 40 conceptually unique demo website templates as well as over 150-page templates that you can pick up and customize within minutes to match your every graphical and branding specification. freelancers, photographers, architects, and digital artists love thegem’s ample offering of portfolio designs and settings options, while simultaneously appreciating its commercialization possibilities powered by the industry-standard woocommerce ecommerce plugin suite, visually styled to match your website. completely responsive from the code level up, thegem is compatible with browsers and devices the world over, while it also renders seamlessly on phones, tablets, and desktop computers alike. with thegem, you can make your wildest website dreams come to life! more info / download demo massive dynamic massive dynamic is an image-centric and imaginative wordpress creative website builder for photographers. this theme is an unimaginably powerful website builder, a coherent, cohesive toolkit for the swift creation and design of sophisticated, modern websites, spanning a huge range of diverse interests and fields. massive dynamic’s one of a kind live website builder integrates layout edition, shortcode deployment, and settings customization into a single, nifty visual interface with real-time preview. combined with a rich library of gorgeous composed layouts, over half a dozen layout styles and a wealth of creative, niche and general template websites, and you have a level of visual freedom without paragon. massive dynamic is a perfect toolkit for photography websites, among many other applications, due to its amazing layout capabilities and its unique portfolio features and templates. features like the portfolio live rearrange, which provides a masonry grid for your beautiful photographs wherein you can liberally resize and reorder your works to present them in the best possible light, or the sophisticated ajax-powered dynamic search feature, which helps users sift through your content quickly, and even the integrated online shops, allowing you to market your prints right away–massive dynamic makes photographers’ lives easier. more info / download demo moon moon is a blog and portfolio theme for creative and photography websites. it includes many distinct features that allow you to present your videos, photos and audio files. moon allows for a great degree of mobility, unshackling its owner from the confines of an office chain. it is entirely responsive, making it compatible with mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. you will be able to write blog posts, upload edited photos, commercialize items and services, and manage your site while traveling across the globe. moon was developed by an elite author, and it shows. the theme will always benefit from a flawless support system and an unlimited number of free updates. users will be able to implement personalized textures and colors for every main panel, as they attempt to showcase their artful photographs. interested customers can gain access to some amazing documentation sources which can guide them through the customization process. in addition, there are video tutorials and gif snippets. site administrators can select various formats for their posts. they may include video clips from vimeo and youtube or audio clips from sites like soundcloud. moon tries its best to remove any entry barrier. as a customer, you do not have to possess any previous wordpress experience. everything is highly intuitive and user-friendly. more info demo stellar the great thing about purchasing a quality wordpress theme is that you will benefit from constant useful updates. unlike other products that just put out new versions, software is often improved as it goes, via your internet connection. stellar responsive creative and photography theme is no exception to that rule, as its current 1.1 version has added another light skin configuration. upon purchase, you will retain the freedom to modify your theme how you wish, but there are also alternatives. two preset configurations exist, a contrast and light skin, each of them capable of adapting to all work or photography styles. if you ever change your mind, you can visit the advanced admin theme panel and configure your own theme. more info / download demo bridge thanks to its multi-purpose approach to web design, you can employ bridge as a wordpress theme for photographers out of the box. note: bridge has an enormous collection of nearly four hundred demos of which a few are perfect for both amateur and professional photographers. while the samples are stunning and very appealing to the eye, you can still step things up and enrich them with your personal touch. bridge will help you craft a wonderful online portfolio that will keep all your visitors engaged. in addition to that, you can also expand your online presence with an online store and a blog. with the former, you can sell your creations as posters or on canvas and with the latter, you can share more about your works, provide tips and other compelling topics. more info / download demo foto foto is a wonderfully malleable and incredibly resourceful, convenient and easy to use, engaging and responsive wordpress photography website theme. this theme is a purposeful platform aimed to provide amateur and professional photographers, photojournalists and photography studios an easy avenue towards development of sophisticated, modern photography websites, fully customizable to suit their functional or branding specifications, and requiring absolutely no coding experience or knowledge, due to deployment of intuitive visual interfaces for layout design and element customization. foto has been equipped with one of the most ambitious and thorough collections of photography and portfolio settings and tools on the market today, making it the natural choice for creative types that want to get their hands dirty in terms of layout presentation, with such flexible capabilities as individual portfolio page layouts for your every album or over 20 different, unique variations for your single gallery pages, as well as 18 different portfolio page templates you can work with and fine-tune to meet your every expectation. foto includes 15 different conceptual photography album templates for every occasion, with diverse selections of grids, masonry layouts, carousels and sliders and much more under the hood. no theme out there can showcase your works like foto. try foto now! more info / download demo ztudio x if you are looking for a neat, sophisticated and high performing wordpress theme for photographers, you should consider ztudio x. it is a remarkable tool with countless features to bring into being the exact photo-based website that you are after. pick the ready-made demo that suits your needs best, import it with a single click and start improving it right away. with a powerful theme like ztudio x, setting up a website is child’s play. it does not even require any prior experience and technical background! premium plugins at no additional cost, drag and drop page editor, fully translatable and search engine optimized, these are just some of the goodies ztudio x treats its users to. make sure you use it to its full potential and never look back. employ ztudio x today and have your hobby or professional photography website up and running sooner rather than later. more info / download demo twofold twofold is a fast and flexible wordpress fullscreen photography theme. this theme is an extremely modern, visually minimalist and uncomplicated, highly powerful website creating and developing toolbox, a carefully curated set of tools and features that allows webmasters seasoned and rookie alike to effortlessly craft their own amazing, breath-taking photography websites in a matter of minutes, without ever having to so much as write a single line of code. twofold employs a streamlined, simplified website building process centered entirely around the presentation of your powerful visual content. a highly uncluttered design makes twofold uniquely suited for handling precious high-resolution imagery, allowing your visitors to focus on what matters–your photography. with impressive photo hover effects as well as vast capabilities for handsome handling of fullscreen presentation, with a bootstrap foundation providing responsiveness across all devices, platforms and screen sizes or orientations, no theme out there can handle fullscreen photography like twofold can. try it on for size and discover the amazing ajax filtered collections, the highly customizable albums and the unique gallery layout styles offered by twofold. retina ready out of the box, twofold is the ally you want to make all the jaws drop. more info / download demo torola torola is a magnificent wordpress theme for photographers with a modern and creative touch to it. it comes with many predesigned demos that will come ideally to a broad range of users. from masonry cards and portfolio grid to reveal sections, split screen and hover list, torola is loaded with amazingness. besides, the theme also has fascinating project pages for you to showcase your work in an enticing, yet professional, way. astonishing, isn’t it? what’s more, no matter the predesigned content you go with, you can still have complete freedom to customize it to your needs. torola is effortless to customize after all. indeed, it is also mobile and retina ready, compatible with all the popular web browsers and comes with a complete documentation. amazing parallax effect, on scroll content load, contact page and a blog system, torola has the mentioned and a considerable amount more. more info / download demo kassia kassia is a wordpress theme for photographers which will benefit you greatly. with nine stunning home page designs, you have more than enough options to start your online journey not only today but in a few minutes. also, kassia is packed with the fantastic page builder, elementor, which saves you all the hassle of coding. all the work happens visually, with some dragging and dropping, rearranging elements, as well as removing and adding new ones. it total, you gain access to over forty pages which you can use however you see them fit your project best. you can easily stick to the out of the box variation, but additional editing is also welcome. other features include revolution slider, smooth animations, contact form 7, bootstrap framework, seo-friendliness and mobile-readiness. let folks from all over the globe enjoy your fantastic imagery by creating a striking online portfolio. more info / download demo esben esben equips you with a contemporary, minimal and elegant web design that you can employ for building a photography website. while esben particularly works with fashion photographers best, by all means, go against the norm and utilize it for something entirely different. there are loads of options and possibilities that you have once you gain access to the exceptional esben. introduce your signature touch and you unlock yourself even more options which will put you right on top. esben delivers a bunch of ready-made homes, different gallery styles, a shop layout and even a blog section. with esben, you can speedily create a complete and fully active online presence that will display all your photo masterpieces in the best possible light. also, esben works on all devices and browsing platforms for an always smooth and comfortable experience. more info / download demo reflector reflector is a giant amongst wordpress themes for photographers, thanks to the whopping collection of 25 custom-made and ready-to-use home page demos. in short, there is something for everyone. no matter how picky and meticulous your taste is, reflector has something for you. all the demos are outstandingly beautiful out of the box, yet still fully customizable. meaning, you can always modify the default look with the wpbakery’s drag and drop technique. this method alone allows everyone, yes, everyone, to create a web space for photographers. let’s take a peek at some more amenities. reflector also comes with pricing pages, over fourteen portfolio layouts, different gallery styles, stunning sliders and nifty headers to name a few. there are also ninety and counting predefined shortcodes for quick integration. and if you feel like blogging, you can also introduce a blog section and share your story. more info / download demo stills there is no need for you to look for any other wordpress theme for photographers other than stills. this theme will literally knock your socks off. it is a modern, elegant and innovative web design that will spark all your site visitors’ interest. not only theirs but yours, too. from home page to about and blog section, whatever stills does, it does it with insane style. your project will shine online like never before. if you are building your very first page, stills makes sure you will succeed greatly doing it. after all, the theme is exceptionally simple to customize and edit, as well as manage and maintain. moreover, the tool is responsive, cross-browser compatible and follows all the latest trends regarding web and tech. images are always kept in their original aspect ratio and are never cropped. give yourself something that will make you known and potentially grow to the levels that you never even thought about reaching. it is none other than stills that will help you out on your journey. more info / download demo travis wp travis wp is a photography and photo gallery wordpress theme. it comes with beautiful pre-built layouts and many premium features compatibilities. it’s a theme thought for photographers, freelancers, artists, making their way to shine. travis wp has partial orientation to blog writing along with high-resolution images. you will get exclusive css and js files, and more than 10 types of galleries. you can upload your posts in a pixel perfect quality and in many formats as well. travis wp requires no coding or programming skills at all! make your own portfolios or photography albums and set up online expositions. layouts can shown in boxed or full-width mode. writing posts can be beautified with +650 amazing google fonts. travis wp is a theme thought for professionals giving a serious touch to their work. it is mobile friendly, retina ready, with cross-browsers compatibility. you will get multilingual set up with wpml and seo optimization. travis wp uses elementor page builder and provides a 24/7 custom service. this along with its one-click demo import makes set up just a formality. start exploring and get the hang of things to be convinced…it’s a keeper, you’ll see! go for travis wp! more info / download demo oliver if you are particularly looking for a wordpress theme for photographers with a dark look, oliver will to the trick. it is an extraordinary solution that will spark everyone’s curiosity. i bet the screenshot above already did the magic. from now on, you can see the amazingness of oliver in great detail by heading over to the live preview page. you can investigate the details, the layouts and other whatnots that oliver has in store for you. you can employ oliver out of the box or make improvements; whatever the case, the outcome will be mind-bending. awesome animations, parallax effect, acf pro plugin, responsive layout, fast loading, you name it, oliver comes with all the necessities and other superb perks. make it yours, personalize the tool and set yourself apart in a small breeze. more info / download demo jirmados instead of starting building a website from zero, you can have it live as of today with jirmados. it is a wordpress theme for photographers, regardless of your niche and intention. the tool easily caters to all sorts of different tastes, no matter how picky it might be. after all, you can also refine the out of the box look according to your preference with the use of wpbakery. a few drags and drops and the theme can look entirely different. there are three main home page designs available and ready for you to employ. additionally, jirmados also includes different headers, slider revolution, custom shortcodes, enticing gallery and integrated contact form 7. everyone also gets a lifetime worth of updates and support, as well as comprehensive documentation. nothing holds you back from bringing into being a stupendous online photo portfolio with jirmados. more info / download demo orys creativity knows no bounds and nor does orys. this sophisticated, professional and unique wordpress theme for photographers is packed with loads of goodies and specialties. if you would truly like to stand out a mile, achieve fantastic results with orys. keep in mind, you have all the must-haves at the tip of your fingers, readily available to put it to use. in the package, you get two main designs that you can put into practice as is or style further. whatever the case, it is a guarantee that the final product will be a first-class page for your photography project. orys’ layout is 100% responsive and fluid, working on smartphones, tablets and desktop computers like a dream. it is also compatible with web browsers and retina screens. a few additional goodies contain lazy load feature, animations, sharing bar, unlimited widgets and amazing portfolio functions. more info / download demo fancy photographer fancy photographer wordpress theme is a flat and trendy website template suitable for photographers and videographers who want to promote their works and services on a wider range of audience. this theme is very easy to install and fully editable to help photographers create an attractive website with just few clicks. this theme is fully responsive and adjusts fittingly to all kinds of devices such as computers, smartphones and tablets. impress your target clients by choosing the perfect color scheme and using the best typography in your website design. fancy photography wordpress theme comes with awesome sliders to share your images in a sophisticated way. moreover, its filterable portfolio allows visitors to sort the content/ images in your website by tags or categories. the theme includes custom post types and post formats to help you present your contents in style. its custom widgets allows you to integrate an incredible comment system in your posts, incorporate social sharing buttons and other widgets that will make your photography website even more shareable and functional. it has more than 80 shortcodes to help you add various design elements such as buttons, notifications, tabs, accordions, testimonials, layout columns and more. this photography-focused theme is very easy to personalize, thanks to its intuitive admin panel powered by cherry framework. on the other hand, it has a built-in theme customizer that enables you to change the look and feel of your photography portfolio site with live preview for monitoring the changes you made in your theme. aside from the impressive design, this theme also boasts its smooth and easy navigation. more info / download demo noah noah is a photography wordpress theme with a modern edgy look. it goes for a specialized somewhat hard to please market, and thus it has its full dedication to do so. it is a premium high-resolution theme with numerous smart images options. noah is one o a kind theme, with incredible animation and galleries’ features. you will also find a completely customizable layout. it will allow different posting formats (blog style, sliders, galleries, columns, etc). noah is appealing not only for design options but for its no coding requirement! it is incredibly easy to craft for anyone even if they are too keen on programming. seo and speed optimization are also featured. also, noah is made for anyone who needs to express themselves through photos. it can work for fashion companies, freelancers, but also photobloggers. variation and customization are expected and well delivered. colors, fonts and else are whatever you want them to be. furthermore, noah is a potent pixelgrade creation, and power elite author product. it has a very reliable and well praised support team that will handle any doubts and questions you may have. it is a theme compatible with all popular browsers out there. get impressed and enjoy the versatility and beauty of noah! more info / download demo clayton photography is clayton’s specialization, but it’s so versatile it can cover any creative work that you display on the media. no wonder why this wordpress theme for photographers users love all around the globe. there are clean, minimalistic, uncluttered design layouts to look forward to, perfect for those who wish to unleash their creative spirit into the world. its site editor is phenomenal with its user-friendly interface. this means you can easily be an expert designer even with zero experience. in addition, clayton comes with an online store which lets you put a value to your works. clayton also comes with a cool photo wall mode which will help you impress even more potential clients and boost your following base. manage your album as easy as 1 2 3. more info / download demo skylon photos mirror your experiences, so display them in the best way possible with skylon. by building a website to store your most precious moments, you can readily share them and profit. skylon does this effectively and wonderfully as a wordpress theme for photographers. focusing on drone aerial photography and videography, you are assured that your photos from above will look breathtaking and alive. select from over two hundred blocks, forty shortcodes and five stunning home designs made by professional designers. in addition, skylon sports different cracking features, like wpbakery page builder, slider revolution and booked appointment. these features will complement and even elevate your photos’ visual appeal. with skylon, you will ensure speed and performance as well regardless of the device the user utilizes for browsing the web. speaking of device, skylon is mobile-friendly, too! more info / download demo pile with constant updates, this theme continues to grow and improve. currently, it has added support for both videos and lightboxes, and additional choices for number of columns in the archive grid. pile is modestly priced, and it has the potential to catapult your page to the heights of success. it is also the perfect backdrop for your most creative projects, designed to showcase and highlight your creativity. additionally, it takes complexity and makes it simple, with its enticing design and reserved brilliance. moreover, pile guides the user’s gaze and directs it towards the most important elements on the screen. it achieves this thanks to a parallax scroller that was inserted between blocks, leading the reader’s eyes towards what matters. more info / download demo pofo pofo is a stunning, expressive and responsive wordpress creative portfolio website theme. this theme is a platform for webmasters from any background to deploy professional-quality websites. 28 curated demo templates offer a broad visual selection to start with. wp bakery page builder (the new and improved wpbakery page builder) provides real-time customization, coding-free. make every element shake and dance to the beat of your own drum, through an intuitive visual interface. photographers and photography bloggers love pofo’s eloquent visual portfolios. also, creative animations, dynamic layouts and sophisticated options let you craft the perfect showcase. moreover, your works will stand out and engage with your audience through captivating animations. furthermore, display your finest photo collections in modern metro style, or with multiple carousels. lastly, unique blog templates make talking to your audience in your own voice a breeze. yoast! integration lets you bring up your traffic in no time. try pofo today! more info / download demo h-code h-code is a bright photography wordpress theme that features both one page and multipage latours. this theme has been exclusively crafted by a team of dedicated coders and graphic designers working in conjunction to produce a massive, vast and imaginative website building platform that can effectively produce attractive modern websites in a flash, with impressive multimedia capabilities, seamless css3 transitions and animations, gorgeous parallax visual effects and much more, while requiring absolutely no coding. h-code has been packaged along with over 197 exclusive html5 template pages for a myriad purposes, including over 40 breath-taking portfolio pages to showcase your beautiful visual works as well as detailed portfolio element pages, 16 custom blog layouts for you to express yourself in eloquent style with 5 different individual blog detail page templates, a half dozen headers and several footers, sidebars and menus, and some of the most attractive image galleries on the web today make h-code a natural photography website theme. among its many useful features you will find complete e-commerce online shop functionality, meaning you can easily offer prints of your works or your professional services right off your own unique, creative website, the same day you set things up. try h-code now! more info / download demo darkroom this is a theme that was developed for professionals. it includes full-screen slideshows, it is fully responsive, and it is compatible with both videos and the widespread woocomerce plugin. this plugin makes it easy to set up your own online store, creating a safe and reliable environment for any future transaction. it also has plenty of shortcodes, google fonts, a photowall and an unlimited color palette. the people who will chose to visit your page can easily toggle the full-screen option and view images and slideshow on the background. darkroom is also compatible with latest version of wordpress, and it contains solid header support for your logo. more info / download demo inspiro inspiro is a beautiful and modern wordpress business and portfolio multipurpose website theme. this theme is a powerful toolbox for creating handsome and eloquent websites. it doesn’t matter whether you know any coding at all. the integrated page builder and advanced theme options panel let you create awesome pages from scratch. make use of any of several demo websites with a single click and then customize them to your heart’s content. inspiro’s awesome slideshow video background showcases your photos and videos for your audience. many more completely configurable homepage sliders are packed with inspiro, including a crisp gallery module for presenting your photography or your professional portfolio with ease and elegance. also, inspiro really is ready for all forms of modern media. state-of-the-art html5 technology makes its media-savvy capabilities very fast-loading. your website won’t hiccup even during peak traffic usage cases. moreover, unique and convenient widgets like the portfolio showcase and portfolio scroller let you create original homepage layouts in no time at all. additionally, the awesome woocommerce plugin suite furnishes your inspiro website with incredible commercial features. make a sale or complete a shopping cart checkout easily. check out inspiro today, and see what this pliable theme is all about. more info / download demo oyster oyster is a wordpress theme that offers its customers limitless possibilities, yet it retains its user-friendliness and accessibility. customizing your page has never been easier! both its framework and its design are at the pinnacle of modernity. even the way in which the user views images is subjective, as the developers have included plenty of variations and styles. if you are unsure regarding this theme’s quality, feel free to check out their demo and see for yourself. overall, oyster will be the platform from which your creative ideas can be launched. more info / download demo scent fully responsive and retina ready, scent is the best wordpress theme for model agencies. it makes building your page very easy, given wpbakery page builder integration. it has also included a model submission form, a portfolio option with both videos and images, and parallax options for your page’s background. other features include video and full-screen sliders, translation ready coding, and the option to display your content in both one page, and multi-page configurations. for more information regarding scent and its outstanding features, feel free to check out their live demo. more info / download demo tography tography is a very beautiful and functional wordpress photography theme. it’s a unique theme, developed exclusively for photographers, and by photographers, making tography a truly special concoction that is chock-full of truly amazing and thoughtful options for creating, designing and maintaining the most modern and imaginative professional or amateur photography portfolio websites on the internet today. tography has been decked out with extremely on point and relevant options for showing off your high-resolution photography, including a sophisticated image metadata retrieval system that automatically scans your photos for technical data such as aperture, f-number, and camera type, giving your portfolio works a context and a relevance impossible to aspire to otherwise. this theme also includes a seamlessly intuitive backend user interface that webmasters of any background or skill level will quickly familiarize themselves with and master. furthermore, tography has different headers, navigational and pagination styles, a visual layout builder for you to fiddle with the included templates and demo websites or come up with your own from scratch. let tography show your works to the world! more info / download demo sirius as long as you choose to work with sirius, compatibility issues will be the problems of your past. it is fully responsive, and it can adapt to any device, regardless of its manufacturer, resolution or mobility. it also works great with any modern browser, a fact that will certainly broaden your viewer base. this is one of the most popular and prolific themes on our list, a title that it has earned through consistent quality and reliable design. sirius is also very easy to customize, as anyone can tailor their ideal page, regardless of their tech know-how. this skin includes some very effective export/import configurations and a powerful admin panel. more info / download demo fluxus the overall design and layout of this theme were inspired by the traditional magazine layout. but here is where the similarities end, as fluxus surpasses the traditional format, and brings your content into the 21st century. it can adapt and work on any device, both mobile and desktop, and it features a horizontal layout that allows you to view your works in parallel for a better perspective. the list of its features is too long to mention here, but all that a potential client needs to know is that fluxus is definitely worth his/her time. famous photo sites must employ themes like this one in order to gain widespread appeal. more info / download demo if you couldn’t find the right theme for your photography portfolio you might want to look into this theme collection. on this theme collection, we have showcases over 50 different photography themes that are well suited for portfolios, galleries, and even ecommerce to showcase sell your work online. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. creativeflat designparallaxphotography themesportfoliowoocommerce themes share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts 19 best elementary school wordpress themes 2020 education is a passport and a good key for a brighter future. without knowledge, you… 50+ jaw-dropping wordpress travel themes for travel agencies, hotels, hostels, vacation rentals, travel blogs and journals 2020 comprehensive list of wordpress travel themes suited for hotels, motels, spas, travel agencies, and another… 10+ premium family wordpress themes for your website there are 10+ premium family wordpress themes either for your blog or e-store website that we have prepared for you today. 21 best personal branding wordpress themes for personal websites 2020 here are the best personal website wordpress themes to build your personal brand with ease. … best religion wordpress themes for churches and non-profits since you are hear we are sure that you are looking for the best religious… best and most creative photography wordpress themes for your professional portfolio isn’t that great photography exists? the way to capture pressure moments and save it for… this post has 4 comments katie keith says: at there are some really stunning themes here, thanks – especially since there are so many photography themes on the market, so it’s hard to find the right one! the main thing missing from a lot of these themes is the ability to sell photos to specific clients only. reply anamika patel says: at “the gem” has got a great wordpress theme for photographer’s site. also a good audience attracting fact is that you get a good space on home page for showcasing your collection of photographs. reply william says: at i strongly agree from the first para when aigar you said that people have started taking photography for granted. maybe because photography is one click away with the result on spot. i have experienced how difficult it was in 90s when i was a kid taking a pic making sure the reel doesn’t go wasted to the first click should be the perfect cick. today anyone can continue to press clicks until he or she doesn’t get the right pose, lighting etc. in addition, printing cost used to be high. but today the technology has made things easier, simple, cheap. this has actually helped us because today we get a lot of great pictures for our websites and blogs much conveniently. reply dave says: at pros and cons they are, bottom line is i love the article and the sample themes. great post. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: treasures of organic agriculture: 17 best farming wordpress themes 2020 next post: 20 awesome wordpress material design themes for landing pages, corporate websites and blogs – 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×