home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy third trimester prevnext 34 weeks pregnant – antenatal classes start this week leyla preston sun 31st oct 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 34 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. i had an appointment with the birth centre and received my new maternity notes. i found out that my due date is actually 12 december so they have given me an extra 3 days to prepare for boxer. the midwives told me that scans actually predict the due date a few days early and that it’s better to work out your due date from the last day of your period if you have a regular period cycle. the midwife tested my urine again and this time i was completely clear, so it must have been a tampered sample last week. hubby and i started our antenatal classes this week. it was quite far away from home, so we had to take two buses to get to the destination. we were the first to arrive at the church where the classes were being held and so we sat down patiently in a large room filled with large chairs and cushions. one by one, the couples started to arrive. there were five couples in total, all about the same age as us and all looking equally as nervous. the nct counsellor introduced herself and asked everyone to go around the room and introduce themselves to the rest of the group. i was quite nervous so i ended up telling everyone my name, where i was from, where i was giving birth and my family background. i may as well have given them my bra size judging by the looks on their faces as i fed them information overload! hubby seemed just as uncomfortable as me and his introduction wasn’t much shorter than mine. the counsellor then asked everyone to get into groups and write a list of what we wanted to learn and what we hoped to gain in the forthcoming weeks at the antenatal classes. well, i wanted to learn more about what labour was going to be like and how painful it was actually going to be. i also wanted to learn more about breastfeeding too, as i heard that it’s pretty tough to get right the first time, and if you don’t get it completely right you can end up with sore, cracked nipples! in our first session, we talked about labour and birth and how to cope at home in the early stages of labour. we went through an a to z list of what we could do to alleviate the pain and relax during those early stages. i’ve created my own personal a to z list of relaxation techniques that i’m going to try and cover to help with my labour. it was quite difficult to think of them all! the second nct session was all about breastfeeding. a breastfeeding counsellor taught us all about how breastfeeding works, i.e. supply and demand of milk – the baby demands the milk and the mother supplies the milk, and whether the baby is getting enough of the milk. we also learned about good positioning and attachment and watched a breastfeeding dvd that showed us how to get the baby to latch onto the breast properly, to prevent sore nipples. this is extremely important, as the baby can get the maximum amount of milk from the breast if they are positioned and latched onto the breast correctly, i.e. getting the hind milk as well as the fore milk. it was a really good session as we also learned about what to expect in the first week. apparently, we’ll be feeding and changing the baby every 2 – 4 hours! oh, i can feel the sleep deprivation already… a fun fact – the baby weighs about 4.7 pounds and measures at around 18 inches long! the science part your baby at 34 weeks your baby is putting on yet more weight in the form of fat to help regulate their body temperature. the fat will also keep them warm after birth too. their bones are still hardening, but your baby’s head will stay soft and separated so that they will be able to slide through the birth canal ready for the outside world your baby’s immune system is still developing and will continue to develop after birth. your body will deliver important antibodies including from your breast milk to support this development your pregnancy signs and symptoms your uterus is still growing! is your vision getting blurry? this is another pregnancy symptom and totally normal thanks to hormones there may be less tear production too, leaving your eyes dry and tired, especially if you wear contact lenses. you may find wearing glasses for the rest of the pregnancy more comfortable. make sure to protect your eyes from the sun! if you’re worried about your change in vision, contact your midwife or gp asap as this can also be a sign of preeclampsia. your next steps remember that what you eat now will shape your baby’s nutrition later. get into good habits now and you’ll thank yourself later when your baby is here when packing your hospital bag, think about any snacks you’d like to include and whether you’d like any reading materials too to keep you entertained. note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* have you already had your baby (congratulations!), but you’re still receiving pregnancy emails? just hit unsubscribe at the bottom of your email and sign up to ‘my motherhood’ posts to carry on with the personalised weekly emails for your baby up to 16 weeks old! form below: subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your baby’s birthday * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:antenatal classesbirthbreastfeedingchildbirthdecemberfamilyhealthhomelabournational childbirth trustnctrelaxation techniques related posts letting baby do the work: biological nur... benefits of exercise during pregnancy jack’s birth story breastfeeding massage technique to stimu... music and the womb: myths and benefits o... a toddler guide to tenerife 5 reasons why you should holiday in sici... top seasonal family friendly holidays wh... breastfeeding twins how to involve the kids in your engageme... how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... top 6 things to do with the kids this ha... a-z relaxation techniques during early l... psoriasis – what you should know how to prepare for a baby – the first-ye... early signs of labour – and what t... life after birth – back to work or work ... healthy weight loss after pregnancy things you can do before opting for surg... what it feels like to be overdue… walkers baked hoops and crosses crisp re... 35 weeks pregnant – finally got my... competition time! win a polar loop 2 and... how much does it cost eat like an olympi... family dental services with a smile the potentially lifesaving benefits of c... get active with the polar loop 2 and pol... william’s birth story 5 exciting days in for rainy days with t... breastfeeding basics: advice for new mum... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok