home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy third trimester prevnext 36 weeks pregnant – my bump is huge! leyla preston sun 14th nov 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 36 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to receive personalised motherhood weekly emails here subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. i had my midwife appointment this week and i asked my midwife if my bump was too big because it’s massive and i can’t see how much bigger boxer can get with still 4 weeks to go! the midwife measured my bump and said that it was a perfect size at 36.4cm. woohoo! i was worried that i was going to give birth to a 10-pound baby! i recorded the heartbeat to send to hubby, which sounded like a little train. i love hearing boxer’s heartbeat because it means that i am still keeping him alive inside me. at the antenatal classes, we had a women-only session and the lads went out for a drink to bond and talk about their anxieties as fathers. it was really nice actually to just talk with the ladies, as we got to talk about the niggles of pregnancy that perhaps our husbands/partners didn’t really understand. for example, if i sit down for too long, then get up, my pelvis and lower back start to ache. and, i’ve really felt my belly drop down this week, which is great as i can finally breathe and i don’t get heartburn as much. but, it’s not so great that the baby now puts direct pressure on my pelvis and bladder. still only getting up once a night though, so i am able to sleep well. thanks, boxer the nct counsellor, at the women-only session, talked about perineal massage which is meant to prevent tearing during birth. i’m not sure i want anything to touch me down there, let alone have my husband to massage me! that’s what the water birth is for, right? you’re less likely to tear with a water birth and i’ll just aim to pant hard when i first feel the urge to push, so i let the cervix open up naturally. the nct counsellor also stressed doing pelvic floor exercises every day, so in my yoga sessions, i practice those pelvic floor exercises and i really think they’re working actually as i think the baby is front to back now and my bladder feels stronger. our last class was all about caesareans and how and when a woman is expected to have a caesarean section. the discussion definitely left me scared and wishing that i won’t be in a position to ever have one. it’s such a major operation and it can take up to six weeks to heal. it must be difficult if don’t recover from an operation in the normal way as you’ll have a newborn baby to tend to. when i went home that night i watched a really good dvd called great expectations, laugh and learn about childbirth. the dvd is a bit out-dated, but the woman, sheri bayles, hosts childbirth classes on the dvd and explains everything so well, from pregnancy to having the baby. and she’s quite funny too! i learned a lot, especially the really useful breathing techniques she claims works like a charm during labour. i’m definitely going to try them out. a fun fact – your baby weighs as much as a crenshaw melon! the science part your baby at 36 weeks the amount of space in your womb is ever shrinking but your baby is still kicking away. your baby is getting ready for their first breath of the world’s air when they are born. their lungs are developed now and ready to be used. however, they are still deflated as they are currently getting oxygen through the placenta (which is why there is no risk of drowning during a water birth) if they were born now they’d still be considered premature, but they would be able to suckle and their digestive system is ready to take in breast milk. your pregnancy signs and symptoms your womb is getting ready for labour now, so you may experience more braxton hicks contractions – they can be quite strong and some women mistake them for labour contractions are you leaking a bit of pee when you’re coughing, sneezing or laughing? this is normal, but it means that your pelvic floor needs a bit of strengthening. work on your pelvic floor every day so you can prevent any further leakages when the baby is born your next steps get in touch with your midwife if you feel a reduction in movements make sure you are going to sleep on your side when you reach the third trimester because research has shown that sleeping on your back increases the risk of stillbirth. this includes naps during the day as well as sleeping at night time. practice massaging your perineum (the bit between your vagina and anus) in the weeks coming up to birth to reduce the chances of an episiotomy (cutting the perineum) during birth have you thought about what kind of pain relief, if any, you want during labour? speak to your midwife who can explain the different kinds of pain relief available. note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. have you already had your baby (congratulations!), but you’re still receiving pregnancy emails? just hit unsubscribe at the bottom of your email and sign up to ‘my motherhood’ posts to carry on with the personalised weekly emails for your baby up to 16 weeks old! form below: subscribe to receive personalised motherhood weekly emails here * indicates required first name * email address * your baby’s birthday * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:bump related posts birth partners: doula or don’t ya? 18 weeks pregnant- on holiday and loving... 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... aidan’s birth story 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... what to pack in your hospital bag for la... aron’s birth story 32 weeks pregnant – things are rea... early signs of labour – and what t... 22 weeks pregnant – braxton hicks ... 25 weeks pregnant – i have a noctu... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok