skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 38 best health & medical wordpress themes for hospitals, doctors, clinics & blogs 2020 38 best health & medical wordpress themes for hospitals, doctors, clinics & blogs 2020 january 14, 2020 aigars theme collections 61 comments a list of the best medical wordpress themes designed and developed for health and wellness related websites and blogs. these themes are for doctors, dentists, hospitals, health clinics, physicians, physiotherapists, surgeons and other types of health-related websites. all these themes share premium quality and highly customizable layout thanks to advanced theme options that come with each of these themes. additionally, these themes allow creating unique and professional websites without the need to hire professional developers and designers. medical and healthcare wordpress themes most of these themes have an appointment booking, doctor schedule, opening hours, contact, testimonial, gallery, faqs, contact, and other required pages. these healthcare and medical themes will take your business to an entirely new level. jevelin jevelin is a marvelous health and medical wordpress theme which you can utilize for an assortment of different purposes. bear in mind, out of the box, jevelin is a super powerful multi-purpose tool that works with any industry and niche seamlessly. with the countless collection of demos and outstanding customization functions, you will have the must-have website up and running quickly. of course, there is no need to have any experience with building websites with jevelin. when establishing a page with the tool, the process is effortless and comfortable, perfect for all levels of users. that’s not all. when it comes to features, jevelin sports sticky navigation, appointment form and pricing plans, loads content on scroll and ensures a fully mobile-ready layout. no doubt, the outcome will surely be a spectacular experience, making sure your potential patients learn all about you before making an appointment. more info / download demo mediz mediz is a top-notch health and medical wordpress theme that comes with three main demos and multiple additional practical page layouts. avoid the idea of building a website from square one when you can take mediz to your total advantage. of course, you do not need to have any programming knowledge to be able to work with mediz and tailor it to your branding directions. thanks to the integrated drag and drop system, you can get as creative as you want without touching the code. very convenient if you will. still, this is just the beginning of all the amazingness that mediz has in store for you. from nineteen headers, six footers and floating navigation to slider revolution, secondary navigation, automatic updates and professional support, it is all part of the package. last but not least, mediz is optimized for fast loading, seo, mobile devices and web browsers, too. indeed, the performance of your medical website will be of the highest degree for years to come. more info / download demo divi no questions asked divi is a spectacular wordpress theme that you can efficiently use for all sorts of websites, including health and medical-related. what is one of the most exceptional features of divi is the fact that you do not need to have any prior coding nor design knowledge. with the included page builder, you can craft the exact web space you want for your project without the need to touch a single line of code. no matter how unrealistic that may sound, all said is a brutal truth. how cool is that, huh? while you can go with divi’s predesigned content exactly how it comes out of the box, you can freely improve it to suit your business to the very last detail. in fact, you can create custom layouts and make your very own version of divi effortlessly. you can customize and build everything visually with a handy drag and drop feature. enter the medical industry with something extraordinary using the divi theme. more info / download demo exponent hospitals, clinics, dentists, doctors, surgeons and others in the field, exponent is the health and medical wordpress theme you should consider. it has all and everything at the tip of your fingers, ready for you to use it. with exponent, you can now create a sophisticated website that will market your departments and create a comprehensive presentation of your services. they can now get to know you better and find what you specialize in. out of the box, exponent comes with a complete layout that can get you started in little to no time. however, make it follow your branding needs, enrich it with your custom content and benefit from all the additional features and goodies exponent has in store. once you enter the world of exponent, all becomes quick and straightforward. more info / download demo medilink with a powerful collection of twelve one- and multi-page samples, medilink allows you to craft the desired website in a snap of a finger. hence the name, medilink is a health and medical wordpress theme with all the necessary layouts, components and other amenities to get you going online in no time. without the need to hire someone, you can now establish an impactful website that will push your services and market your company the right way. medilink is 100% mobile-ready, flexible, cross-browser compatible and retina screen friendly. no doubt, regardless of the device and platform they use, everyone will have an unforgettable experience browsing your page and learning all about your health or medical institution. additional goodies come in the form of working appointment form, multiple internal pages, nifty team showcase, elementor page builder and full amp and rtl support. get your name out there with medilink. more info / download demo kalium kalium is a wonderful solution for all sorts of websites, including health and medical-related ones. if you would like to create a page for a hospital, clinic, doctor, dentist, you name it, with kalium, you can now hammer one out in minutes time. have in mind, in the bundle of very many predefined demos, you will find the right one for your objective right away. from then on, feel free to utilize it as is or adjust the default settings further. kalium’s drag and drop coding method ensures quick customization. kalium also includes revolution slider, over fifteen headers, coming soon and maintenance mode, one click demo data import and pricing tables among many others. last but not least, kalium is also entirely seo and speed optimized, ensuring outstanding performance and first-class results. spread the word out with kalium and take your health and medical business to new heights. more info / download demo webify webify is one of the most flexible wordpress themes out there, which you can use for health and medical pages easily. and by easily, i truly do mean easily. there is no prior experience necessary, no coding knowledge and no design talent. with webify, every individual out there can establish a modern, clean and sophisticated medical website. yes, you, too. webify has a nifty medical demo all set up and ready to go for you to employ either out of the box or customize further. as for the customization, you execute it with the drag and drop technology. extra amazing and super handy features of webify include but are not limited to online appointment form, call-to-action buttons, loading animations, video support, accordions, testimonials and google maps. last but not least, webify’s layout is responsive, in tune with web browsers and super fast loading. more info / download demo thegem thegem is a clever, clean-cut and responsive wordpress creative multipurpose high-performance website theme. an intuitive toolkit for building great websites in no time at all. coding experience isn’t necessary to get polished, professional results with thegem. with plugins like the visual composer, page building is speedy and hassle-free. a few clicks let you customize your layouts and sections deeply and easily. with over 150 demo template pages, be prepared for every occasion. medical industry webmasters love thegem’s medical demo websites. that’s because they’re full of convenient shortcodes, widgets and tons of inner content pages. they include everything you need to set up shop online overnight. with handy portfolio capabilities, showcasing your professional services is easy and intuitive. impress your potential patients with stylish revolution slider carousels and slideshows. dazzle your audience with dozens of custom animations and transitions. furthermore, you can choose from hundreds of color combinations and google fonts. customize your headers and footers in a matter of minutes with complete flexibility. moreover, with total woocommerce plugin compatibility, marketing your services is a breezy, uncomplicated task. thegem is the perfect way to introduce your medical practice to the 21st century. check out thegem today, and take your business up a notch! more info / download demo revolution whatever your heart desires, you can realize it with the amazing, remarkable, simple to use and effortless to customize wordpress theme, revolution. even when it comes to health and medical wordpress themes, revolution serves the niche flawlessly. among many predesigned demos, revolution also has one entirely devoted to medical-first websites. the web design of this particular layout is clean, neat, tidy, modern and ready to display all your exclusive services front and center. impressive animations, enticing transitions, sticky navigation, testimonials slider, contact form, and google maps are just a fracture of the big bucket of features and assets revolution theme has in store for you. with the ready-to-use content, over two hundred pre-made web elements and just everything else you can think of, your health and medical page can be up in close to no time. however, do not hold yourself back, get creative and enrich revolution with your personal touch for a genuinely wowing experience. more info / download demo healthflex healthflex is a wonderfully convenient wordpress business incorporating a professional multipurpose website theme. purposefully crafted theme built with raw power. painstakingly created with sheer flexibility to adapt itself to a plethora of diverse website archetypes and applications. with ease and speed, and requires no coding or developing experience in order to produce a professional-looking website. create attractive, and modern websites, with a specific aim towards health service industry websites. packed with a series of premium plugins specifically built for the purpose of crafting handsome medical websites. decked out with shortcodes and templates for speedily constructing all your inner pages and necessary business. furthermore, a commercial feature that smoothly integrated into a seamless user interface that is user-friendly and highly intuitive. moreover, while this theme also includes complete demo websites for the purpose of setting up medical websites within minutes, with powerful visual branding and customization capacities at your fingertips. try healthflex today! more info / download demo medicalpress medicalpress is a top-quality wordpress theme for medical and health-related web pages. featuring an expansive collection of theme options, each implemented in order to facilitate site customization. the ease with which you can alter your page is staggering. constructed using bootstrap, guarantying a fully responsive website, as your posts will adapt to any screen size. mobile users can rejoice, knowing that resizing errors have become extinct. the most recent versions of medicalpress incorporates the woocommerce plugin. this allows you to design a personal online shop. merchandising can now be part of your overall business plan. also, a simple and expansive documentation source was incorporated in the theme download bundle. a theme that will guide you through the installation and customization process, further lowering the difficulty barrier of site ownership. the general color scheme of your site can be easily altered. in addition, users can personalize page backgrounds. these features allow for greater visual customization, increasing your site’s appeal. furthermore medicalpress is able to support child themes, and it even has a child theme demo. the default fonts is replaceable with awesome google fonts at any time. lastly, the customized typography can prove to your customers that you are a detail-oriented business. what are you waiting for? try medicalpress today and be amazed! more info / download demo leadengine leadengine is a clean, intuitive and responsive wordpress multipurpose website theme. this theme is a website design and development powerhouse, fit for all skill levels. regardless of your background and experience, leadengine delivers quality every time. with over 30 pre-built websites and 200 template blocks, it boasts tons of features. doctors, medical firms and practices are right at home in leadengine. leadengine’s medical demo offers a full-fledged website covering all your needs. customize it with wpbakery’s page builder, 100% coding-free. mix and match layouts, styles, elements and shortcodes with a couple of clicks. advanced settings let you fine-tune everything else, like colors, fonts and animations. showcase your professional works and services in tasteful, minimalist portfolios. ecommerce-ready, leadengine simplifies marketing your services online. powerful seo drives your traffic through the roof for all the right keywords. let leadengine take your practice to the next level! more info / download demo infinite infinite is a competent and responsive wordpress multipurpose website theme. the perfect flexible blank slate for you to craft your very own professional or personal website within minutes. armed with a multitude of professional quality tools and features, regardless of your previous design or development experience. business organizations love infinite because it affords them all the functionality of a top-notch modern website without any hassle, through the streamlined experience offered by the goodlayers. furthermore, with drag and drop page builder in combination with dozens of amazing demo websites and page templates for any sort of application, each filled out with inner content pages, necessary widgets and forms and much more under the hood, simplifying the website creation process immensely. moreover, the revolution slider, master slider and layerslider will offer opportunities to keep your users engaged and interested in your content, while sophisticated integration of the woocommerce e-commerce plugin suite makes infinite a natural platform for you to market your services cleanly stylishly to the world at large. bring your medical business worldwide! try infinite today! more info / download demo medicare medicare is a charming and professional multipurpose website theme. developed as a powerful platform for the effortless crafting of feature-rich medical industry websites. from dentistry and psychiatric practices to veterinarians, medicare has you covered. furthermore, medical professionals find in medicare a sound partner for developing a functional websites. with medicare’s intuitive page building process articulated through the premium rapid composer plugin. requiring absolutely no coding knowledge, and its potent admin panel settings. no wonder making your website your own is easier than ever before with medicare. moreover, it’s as easy as picking your desired demo homepage! furthermore, it has capabilities such as distinct, customizable typographies and four different header layouts, medicare medical websites are as unique as can be, and a wealth of medical industry related shortcodes and features simplify the process of running your practice through your website, from booking to cost estimations and far beyond. give medicare a try today, and see for yourself! more info / download demo ronby if you are on the search for a high-grade health and medical wordpress theme, you can end the hunt now and go with ronby. ronby is way more than your everyday tool for crafting health and medical pages. first, it is a multi-purpose solution for loads of different pages that you can launch in close to no time. and second, ronby includes two complete demos which you can employ out of the box or improve further. after all, you can benefit from the handy wpbakery drag and drop website builder, which only requires basic mouse skills. indeed, no coding knowledge is necessary to build a functional online presence with ronby. along with index pages, ronby also includes several more internal sections, blog layouts, ready-made widgets, and well over one hundred shortcodes. you also do not have to worry about any of the technical aspects of a smoothly operating medical website. ronby is 100% responsive, cross-browser compatible, retina-friendly and optimized for fast loading speed and search engines. spread the word out today, push your services and welcome on board even more patients. more info / download demo doctreat doctreat is a special health and medical wordpress theme for building directory websites for doctors, hospitals and clinics. it is a powerful and highly versatile solution that will get your project idea on feet even if you have zero experience. first and foremost, you will never need to touch a single string of code due to the drag and drop page builder. moreover, you have all the necessary page layouts and elements predefined and ready to go. needless to say, doctreat comes with a horde of features that will benefit you greatly. from powerful and advanced search function and handy appointment system to one-to-one real-time chat and built-in packages, doctreat brings to the table all and everything. the layout of the theme is 100% responsive, compatible with browsers and retina-ready. you can start immediately and enjoy a swift page realization shortly after. more info / download demo morriston morriston is a more niche-oriented medical wordpress theme, focusing primarily on psychologists and counseling. every user gains access to two modern, clean and minimal home page demos and an assortment of additional internal page layouts. one of the quickest ways to building a website would be to mix and match the available, add your details and information and call it a day. on top of that, you can also take things to a new degree with the use of the elementor builder. the latter gives everyone a chance to make morriston follow your branding directions precisely. multi-level drop-down menu, enticing slideshows, call-to-action buttons, testimonials, accordions and newsletter subscription widget are just a few of the extras that you get with morriston. the layout ensures fast loading speed and search engine optimization, too. if you are ready to spread the word out for your services professionally, let morriston do the magic. more info / download demo medizco medizco is a multi-functional health and medical wordpress theme that caters to doctors, hospital and many other health practitioners and institutions in between. three homes, over 25 predefined page layouts and a whopping collection of more than forty blocks await every medizco user. you do not really need to build anything from scratch, let medizco take care of the heavy work instead of you. and if you would ever want to tweak and modify medizco, do it with the method of dragging and dropping. when it comes to amenities and features, you guessed it, medizco delivers a great deal of them. you get three different homes, smooth animations, parallax effects, google maps, contact forms with validation and an entire blog section. if you are ready to make a difference, raise your potential with medizco now. more info / download demo medical cure medical cure is a health and medical wordpress theme with great adaptability to serve multiple purposes. it’s the perfect fit for institutions that require updating their customer service. a minimal, clean, and professional as expected from health businesses. it comes with more than 50 homepages and templates with one-click demo import install. build with a megamenu and a potent admin panel. this makes coding skills not required! medical cure has specialized trades like appointment forms and treatment follow-ups it also integrates with mailchimp to get patients and or customers connected. thanks to wpml, it is also ready to translate and defeat any language barrier. texts use elegant and appealing google fonts. furthermore, due to its orientation, making reading experience and easy is an important goal. moreover, medical cure features within posts design 5 headers sets and widget-ready sections. unlimited color mixes and sidebars, blogs sections and customizable backgrounds are also available. lastly, medical cure has simplified in all ways, from panel to tons of generated shortcodes. any doubt left can be solved with its support team or video tutorials. it has lots of detailed documentation and even regular updates! get medical cure! more info / download demo medin when putting together a medical website, skip building it from scratch and pick up medin. as simple as that. this outstanding, modern and straightforward to use health and medical wordpress theme is a pack full of amazing layouts and features. with the power of three predefined demos, you can almost instantly create surgery, dentist and clinic websites. on top of that, while you can use the demo content as is, feel free to improve and enhance it according to your needs. in short, you will have a breeze configuring medin and making your dream website out of it. thanks to the drag and drop editing, you need no prior experience and any coding skills to work with medin. anyone can do it with ease. moreover, medin also has woocommerce, neat time table and schedule, several preset color skins and striking before and after testimonials page. of course, you will also be able to handle all your bookings online without hassle, having your business more organized. make medin yours and enter the industry with a bang. more info / download demo bridge due to its multi-purposefulness, you can also use the powerful and practical bridge as a health and medical wordpress theme. whether you are a doctor, a surgeon or own a clinic, bridge is ready to get things sorted out for you right away. even if you are a life coach or would like to start a health blog, again, bridge has you covered with the right web design and all the extra elements and components that you need. to be frank, the list of features that comes with bridge is way too vast to cover it here. in short, whatever you can think of, bridge gives you the opportunity to make it a reality. for the most part, it serves the purpose with its well over 370 demos, but you can also improve and adjust the default looks with your branding touch. more info / download demo composer composer is a versatile wordpress theme adaptable to different professional services with 75+ demos for specials concepts for a complex institution. one of these, of course, is the medicine industry. it offers creativity expression with customizable typography, colors, and headers. with more than 300 ready-made blocks and 200 pages layout for busy people, too. organize your medical information with inner pages. use contact form 7 and mailchimp newsletter to be in touch with your visitors. moreover, composer has also integrated premium plugins like slider revolution and visual composer. woocommerce and yoast are also available, with hundreds of shortcodes to save time and energy. furthermore, it’s responsive and retina-ready, the theme adapts itself to virtually all screens sizes and devices. if you’re having troubles while managing things, you don’t have to worry; there’s a detailed video tutorial readily available for you! a theme that can work with medical and healthcare scenarios. you can design a comfortable and trustable website for your company. are you in the healthcare area? composer is the right choice for you. use composer! more info / download demo medzone medzone pro is a flexible wordpress theme for all medical practices. all the elements required for your business are here. even if you offer different professional services, medzone pro comes with a very tasteful and professional look. every single widget has custom styling. you can use search boxes, tag clouds or calendars. ensuring that you’ll have a gorgeous website. furthermore, medzone pro lets you post in +10 formats! that means you can share videos, audio, galleries or quotes. show of your best with medzone’s build-in gallery maker. moreover, you can add a testimonials section to establish credibility with your potential patients. it can even a staff section with medical profiles, specialties, policies, and principals can go in contact or about us pages. furthermore, medzone pro is seo optimize and thus your visitors find you easily through searches. it offers you responsive design and retina-ready. so, your website looks perfect on all devices your potential patients may have. lastly, enjoy installing medzone pro helped with the demo content and professional team support. you have the future of your business right at your doorstep! for medical needs, everything is here, try medzone pro! more info / download demo mediclinic as the name suggests, mediclinic is, simply said, a health and medical wordpress theme. it consists of twelve banging home demos and loads of accommodating internal sections. in brief, you only need one tool to successfully launch your online space and tailor your needs precisely. thanks to mediclinic, you can customize and enhance the default settings until they match your branding regulations to a t. mediclinic also includes several premium plugins at no additional cost, powerful admin, amazing and in-depth documentation and one-click demo data import. you can have a fully active page up and running in little to no time. there are also plenty of shortcodes, widgets, and other custom elements and layouts to add to your website that will help you shine online. when making a website for a doctor, clinic or any other medical institution, take mediclinic to your full advantage. more info / download demo kallyas kallyas is multipurpose wordpress theme flexible and easy to adapt to any topic. a bootstrap based hogash creation. with more than 30 homepages and demos including one specialized in medical subjects. a theme that goes for a professional clientele, but includes personal topics and blog demos. using a clear and simple front-end built. get unlimited layouts for blog and portfolios as well as colors to arrange. furthermore, kallyas has customizable layout with an incredible sliders selections to use. mailchimp provides a newsletter ideal for clinics clients to be contact. portfolio layouts can be use to show listing in many formats including carrousel. moreover, kallyas uses woocommerce integration to manage any business related aspect. pricing tables are also included! animated posts, headers and sliders are available within layout. make forums and chat rooms with bbpress and buddypress. an all screens adaptable theme, thus making this mobile friendly. create and upload icons from fonts-icons generators like fontello. build fast pages thanks to its seo optimization and cache/auto-optimization plugins. lastly, it offers many social media exposure and buttons to set. try learning from its full documentation and tutorial of this bootstrap based theme. have fun with making features adapt your needs quick and clean! get kallyas! more info / download demo rt-theme 20 rt-theme 20 is a cutting edge medical multipurpose website theme. carefully equipped with a comprehensive set of powerful tools and features that have been polished to a professional degree of attention to detail. furthermore, it readily makes short work of all tasks related to putting together handsome, functional, modern websites across a diverse field of interests and needs. moreover, rt-theme 20 shines particularly bright when it is deployed as a corporate and commercial theme, however. among its multiple template skins, rt-theme 20 is packing several serious and elegant, aesthetically stylish yet entirely approachable designs for corporations, businesses and commercial interests that want a place online to call home that also doubles as a mission statement through sheer visual eloquence and polished precision. with rt-theme 20’s built-in product showcase features, customers and clients will be awed and impressed by your wares from day one, within minutes of the uncomplicated, single click installation process. and lastly, your audience can access your content from any platform or device anywhere in the world with equal, unflinching smoothness. more info / download demo health & medical health and medical is a very flexible, well designed and completely responsive theme for wordpress. made for health clinic, hospital, and dentist websites, or any other institution that specializes in health care. you can customize this theme, as the process is quite simple. the layout is amazing, and it will look great on iphones, ipads, tablets or android phones. in order to receive online payments and conduct transactions, woocommerce was added. one of the most popular and trusted plugins on wordpress, implemented by the most successful themes. a plugin was incorporated, including 5 distinct post types: slider, departments, doctors, testimonials and services. furthermore, with health & medical you get to choose the color scheme of your site, ensuring that the aesthetics will match your vision. moreover, it has a foundation 5 framework, sass, and plenty of font awesome icons. the full responsiveness broadens your target demographics, and allows for administrators to access the page while on the move. there are many sliders, and a google maps integrated function. lastly, the health & medical has 15 personalized widgets, and several widget areas. it works with all popular browsers, and you can expect regular theme updates, as the software improves. more info / download demo onelife one life is a medical related wordpress theme. with 4 homepages and tons of compatibility. a theme meant for the beauty and plastic surgery area of medicine. it is both for companies that sell products related to it, as is it for private clinics. it uses visual composer as page builder and megamenu for its layout handler. you will get 2 awesome premium quality sliders: layer slider and revolution slider. for posts, you get 4 blog pages and 3 grids to display information and arrange columns. 10 color schemes with custom skins are also available. furthermore, onelife gives as specified features, lists for doctors and appointment forms. calendar events and forums (through bbpress) can be introduced too. get creative with easy to customize widgets and headers. social sharing is an option. moreover, onelife is woocommerce integrated for selling aspects and online store building. you can mix its store locator with google maps for directions of stores, clinics or else. overall, it is a theme very versatile and simple to crack! it uses tons of shortcodes to make life easier. avoid annoying programming with this cool theme. and lastly, onelife is mailchimp and wpml compatible as well. start using this awesome diverse tool now! use onelife! more info / download demo inmedical inmedical is a wordpress dedicated to medical things and institutions (clinics and hospitals). it has over 10 homepages with their own demos of one-click data import. it’s the perfect choice for all topic related companies and to administrate institutions. furthermore, inmedical is premium quality, with page builders like visual composer and revolution slider. you will be able to handle booking appointments and events for all staff. departments’ issues, general organization and doctor listing is also featured with special plug-ins. moreover, inmedical has lots of add-ons compatibility and it is retina ready. it uses woocommerce for money transactions or shop building. you will get wpml compatibility with rtl support for foreign language users. furthermore, inmedical layout is responsive with a clean and simple concept. yet it gives unlimited colors to customize. it also uses both boxed and wide page style. moreover, inmedical has unlimited sidebars, a special header and customizable widgets. it is google maps integrated, seo and cross-browser compatible. use this powerful tool wisely with the help of their well praised customer support. you can also access its large documentation files. get started to make your medical business or organization on the run with inmedical! more info / download demo medicalist medicalist is a multipurpose wordpress theme oriented to medical subjects. it is specialized in all types of services provided in the health industry and more. it has online documentation and comes with a one-click demo import. furthermore, medicalist is fast and responsive with tons of pre-built options for layout design. it uses 6 unique demos with more than 30 homepages. it even includes woocommerce to set up shops! moreover, medicalist is built with visual composer plugin and features others like slider revolution. it is great for pharmaceutical, deontological areas, laboratories and more. get tons of awesome trades like appointment setting, calendars and a donations system. you even get a pregnancy and period calculator featured! moreover, medicalist provides customizable backgrounds that can add videos appealing to customers/patients. it uses an amazing search system and has a strategically placed banner. you will get tons of pages to set up real stories, healthcare options, galleries, and blogs. online bill payment for appoint or health insurance is also available! everything thought out for clients comfort. lastly, medicalist is perfect for those on the medical business looking to embrace technology. get this widget ready and mobile friendly tool right now! set up or renew your medical business with the perfect touch of medicalist! more info / download demo holamed holamed is a health and medical wordpress theme that caters to just about any business inside the industry. whether a public or a private clinic, a plastic surgeon or any other medical practitioner, holamed is ready and set to get things moving strong in the online space. put to use the available demos and have your desired website live in a near snap of your fingers. change colors to follow your branding precisely, rearrange elements and incorporate other components, all this and more you can do without touching a single line of code. other assets of holamed are parallax effect, on scroll animations, over twenty custom visual composer elements, multi-level menu and a collection of handy shortcodes. in short, whatever type of medical website you plan to start, do it in a breeze with holamed. more info / download demo ident as the name suggests, ident is a dentist and medical wordpress theme with all the right material that will kick-start your business’ web space. do in style and fashion with the tool and push your professionalism, expertness and outstanding services above and beyond. also, there are three complete demos at your disposal, prepared for you to employ them as you wish. stick to default settings or go the extra step and update the web design with your branding and creative touch. whatever the case, the final product will be a remarkable health and medical website that will spark everyone’s interest. ident is fully translatable, includes four basic headers, google maps, live customizer and revolution slider. besides, ident is also responsive, extendable, seo optimized, speed enhanced and compatible with all the major web browsers. more info / download demo medicus medicus is a visually appealing, extremely reliable, user friendly and highly intuitive, feature-rich and deeply functional, technologically accomplished and entirely modern wordpress responsive multipurpose business and corporate theme. it is a flexible, pliable and powerful theme that is jam-pack with convenient, useful and time-saving tools for all sorts of business and commercial online ventures. medicus is especially design, however, for deployment on medical, corporate and nonprofit organization websites and projects. it includes a beautiful and smooth-running widgetized homepage, which is easily expanded, modified and customized with wpzoom’s own dynamic homepage builder. the visual customizer lets you take full charge of the entire look of every page of your site, while the theme options panel offers advanced capabilities for altering medicus as a whole to suit your needs. several handy templates are included with medicus, perfect for quickly setting up your business, corporate or ngo website, while a potent directory widget is perfect for professionals. medicus is built on a solid and cutting-edge html5 and css3 framework, with extensive bootstrap responsive coding to ensure a flawless rendering across all devices, browsers and screen sizes. medicus is also optimized for search engine indexation, so your website will quickly ascend the ranks by better indexing your most relevant content. with medicus, you just can/t go wrong. more info / download demo health center health center is a theme perfect for health and medical blogging but also suitable for any type of business blogging. a theme that’s used by advanced programmers or even users with no programming skills. its fully responsive layout that is use on desktop, tablets, and mobile devices can be changed to different resolutions. the theme can be used easily because of its drag and drop options that make the streaming fast. demos are also installed in this theme for better understanding on how to use the site. moreover, this theme features a beautiful one-page parallax version which can be used as default one or replaced with multi-page setup which is more traditional. more info / download demo medicom medicom is a premium medical wordpress theme that suits all medical and health related websites. build base on bootstrap 3 and includes other amazing theme features. premium features are also incorporated in this theme like premium visual composer and premium layer slider that help users build a unique and engaging website. it comes with different blog layout options, gallery pages, testimonials, appointment forms and many more. more info / download demo medicenter medicenter is a modern, elegant and responsive wordpress theme suitable for health and medical-related projects and businesses. the theme is highly customizable with over 600 different fonts, 6 color schemes that can be further tweakeable and loads of icons and shortcodes. medicenter also has built-in schedule manager, 20 different page layouts, pricing tables, and powerful page builder. overall, this is my favorite theme on this list and the best selling one. clearly you can’t go wrong with this theme. more info / demo demo pearl here we have pearl, the first so called multi-niche wordpress theme! it is an all purpose theme with a high focus on demo customizations for specific topics. no matter what kind of business you are looking to take upon, it handle it. it is completely customized according to your industry nature. pearl fits basically all areas, so if your business is health and medicine, we a demo for you. a responsive layout with a powerful drag & drop builder is already part of the deal. furthermore, pearl comes with advanced pricing modules and book appointments. you will get to set up pages to talk about your departments and your staff. emergency calls for ambulance, and sign-ups for trials are also found. it is a custom-made theme for every kind of business. moreover, pearl makes you feel understood on your every need. choosing pearl means counting with plugins that make the experience enjoyable and profitable. some of these are wpml for translation and gravity forms to create advanced forms and seo. lastly, pearl is highly flexible, not only 100% responsive but also retina ready. it was built with html5 and css3 coding. try it now and see for yourself the luxury of going major leagues! try pearl! more info / download demo sanabel for medical websites, there is no better choice than sanabel. this beautiful wordpress theme never fails to impress, given the gorgeous design and accessible options. sanabel is one of the most accessible themes on the market, given that it can accommodate all users. it requires no programming knowledge or technical expertise. with such an intuitive and pleasant experience, your medical website will earn the trust of every page visitor. in addition to the standard download, a child theme folder was incorporated. it is also possible to import demo content for your medical website, via the 1 click demo installer. the process is very swift, as it only takes a few moments. additionally, the site layout is entirely responsive, and it can showcase your posts on the smaller screens of hand-held devices. with sanabel, resizing and compatibility issues are entirely non-existance. moreover, there are 11 footer layouts, 6 header styles, and an infinite range of color customization possibilities. a well-written documentation source is available, offering to guide new users through the installation process. by visiting the options panel, you will be able to modify the text colors, styles, font sizes, and line heights. if you want to learn more about this medical wordpress theme, be sure to access the live preview. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. dentistsdoctorsflat designhealthhealthcaremedicalphysician share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts 40+ responsive wordpress music themes for musicians, djs, bands and solo artists 2020 the only resource you will ever need to choose the best wordpress music theme for… top 30+ wordpress themes for local businesses, startups and other small enterprises 2020 small local businesses are crucial for every community but building even a small business is… 45 most popular creative digital agency wordpress themes 2020 running a creative digital marketing agency and looking for a wordpress theme? these beautiful agency… top 23 high-quality shopify themes 2019 looking for a fancy shopify theme that will work smoothly and look professional? check out… 10+ superb literature and art wordpress themes for creative writers & elearning are you interested in launching an art or literature site? may the following collection of literature and art wordpress themes be helpful! organic food is modern society’s obsession; organic wordpress themes are yours can you imagine eating greasy hamburgers made of beef and filled with antibiotics and hormones… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 20 best lead generation wordpress themes to boosts sales 2020 next post: 30+ best seo friendly wordpress themes for company, ecommerce, blog, affiliate and adsense websites 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×