home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy third trimester prevnext 38 weeks pregnant – the baby’s half engaged leyla preston sun 28th nov 2010 1shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list braxton hicks contractions diorrhoea bloody show/extra discharge burst of energy/nesting instinct the baby drops down the cervix starts to open your waters break the science part your baby at 38 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to receive personalised motherhood weekly emails here subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. i saw my midwife and she told me that, at 38 weeks plus 2 days, i am 3/5 palpable, which means i’m 2/5 engaged! i had to go home and check what that actually meant, but basically it means that the baby’s head is split into fifths & so 2/5 of the baby’s head is in my pelvis, which means 3/5 still isn’t. she also reckons that the baby is going to be about 7 1/2 pounds, which is great because i thought i was going to give birth to a ten pound baby! she advised me to buy some pineapple and raspberry leaf tea to speed the process along, so i’ve had my first cup and the tea is gorgeous! by the time i finished my midwife appointment i was famished and polished off 2 chicken, bacon and egg sandwiches. my pregnancy appetite has definitely increased since boxer has dropped down! i have started to feel period-like pains in my lower back and around my tummy. they’re very weak and i don’t feel like i’m going into labour yet, but it’s definitely a new feeling. i can only place them as braxton hicks contractions as they can’t be the actual contractions. whatever they are, they’re definitely getting stronger! my pelvis still hurts too, but the midwife says that is good – it means the pelvis is stretching to let the baby in. i am also feeling very large and uncomfortable. my belly is a massive round ball and when i sit down i feel like i’m squashing the baby! i wonder if this is the start of labour. i read up on the early signs of labour to find out whether my body is gearing up for childbirth. i have also created an infographic (below) which goes through the early signs of labour in more detail. click on the image below to print it out or pin to your pinterest board. braxton hicks contractions well, i am definitely getting something! the twinges and the period-like pains must fall into that category. diorrhoea well, to be honest, i wake up in the morning and have to go straight away, and in the last couple of days i’ve had to go twice a day! bloody show/extra discharge only twice in the past week i have seen a tiny amount of discharge which has a pinkish tinge. once right at the beginning and once on friday. i don’t think this means anything as they were quite small and significant. burst of energy/nesting instinct i haven’t really had the urge to spring clean the house yet. i’m really hoping i do soon as the house needs to be cleaned properly, but i just don’t have the energy to do that at the moment – i sit on my bum all day and type. i keep meaning to walk every day but it is sub-zero temperatures outside and it’s snowing. really, it’s hibernation weather… i am trying to incorporate exercise so i feel a little bit health, especially with the all the sugary snacks i’m eating! the baby drops down this sign i definitely have. my bump has quite visibly dropped down and i can definitely feel the baby’s head sitting in the pelvic region. the pressure in my pelvis alone is proof enough that there’s an 8 pound baby (or thereabouts) sitting in there! the cervix starts to open no idea about this one. i haven’t had an examination yet, but i’m hoping it thins out in time for the birth. your waters break unless they broke when i was on the loo, i don’t think this has happened to me yet, but i’ve been told that the waters don’t necessarily have to break before labour begins. the waters can break during labour, so i’m not really looking out for this one. so, right now i am displaying 3 (well 3 1/2 if i count the discharge) out of the 7 signs, so i have a feeling i’ve got about a week left. maybe more! a fun fact – the baby weighs about 7 to 7.5 pounds, and is likely to be between 19 and 21 inches long! the science part your baby at 38 weeks your baby is the size of a marrow! they are at full term and can come at any time now the organs are now all fully formed and ready for life in the outside world your baby has likely moved down and their head is engaged. your baby is still swallowing your amniotic fluid, which is heading to their intestines and which will result in their first bowel movement (meconium). their lungs are still maturing and producing more surfactant, which is a substance that prevents the air sacs in the lungs from sticking to each other once the baby starts to breathe oxygen. your pregnancy signs and symptoms you are probably getting impatient to meet your baby now, and feeling quite a bit of discomfort carrying your big lump of joy around. not long to go now! try to make the most of your last few days before baby arrives. get as much rest as you can before the baby comes and takes sleep away from you! are you experiencing leaky breasts? that’s liquid gold called colostrum which your baby is ready to feed on when they greet you. colostrum contains lots of antibodies that protect your newborn. consider wearing nursing pads in your bra to protect your clothes your next steps it’s just a waiting game now for those hormones to release and kick start contractions, so you can push your baby out watch out for early signs of labour, including losing your mucus plug which is one of the first signs that labour is here continue with your pelvic floor exercises and start right now if you haven’t done so already – you’ll thank yourself later! keep an eye on your contractions if you feel they have started. if they last more than 30 seconds and are coming every 5 minutes then make a call to your hospital – your baby is coming! note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. have you already had your baby (congratulations!), but you’re still receiving pregnancy emails? just hit unsubscribe at the bottom of your email and sign up to ‘my motherhood’ posts to carry on with the personalised weekly emails for your baby up to 16 weeks old! form below: subscribe to receive personalised motherhood weekly emails here * indicates required first name * email address * your baby’s birthday * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* *post contains affiliate links* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:babybraxton hicks contractionsburst of energypregnancywaters break related posts breastfeeding twins cytomegalovirus – what you should know life after birth – back to work or work ... how to dress your baby in the spring from a ghost pregnancy (negative pregnan... what do you really need for your new bab... sm’s birth story 6 weeks pregnant – time to register the ... the wait to become pregnant continues... 20 weeks pregnant – my second scan... press release – launch of motherhood dia... bruce’s birth story 17 weeks old – it’s fun to b... the reality of motherhood 23 weeks pregnant – babies come wi... 8 weeks pregnant – the pregnancy h... the best holiday destinations for new pa... 14 weeks pregnant – the fatigue is... music and the womb: myths and benefits o... thinking about your baby’s future:... 30 weeks pregnant – we’re mo... oral b pro expert premium gum protection... 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... best pregnancy pillows 2017 27 weeks pregnant – my third trime... should you really eat for two during pre... birth partners: doula or don’t ya? how to strengthen your pelvic floor afte... 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... 10 ways to feel good during pregnancy about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok