home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy third trimester prevnext 39 weeks pregnant – no sign of labour yet! leyla preston sun 5th dec 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 39 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to receive personalised motherhood weekly emails here subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. hubby’s mum came over from switzerland to stay for a week, which is great because i really enjoy her company. we had a quick coffee at starbucks before we went home to eat and prepare for my midwife appointment. unfortunately, as soon as we arrived home, we realised we had left her christmas card on the table at starbucks and it took me a long time before i was able to get through to the store to ask them to hold onto the card for us. d’oh, pregnancy brain! we went to my midwife appointment together at the birth centre and hubby’s mum commented on how cosy and comfortable the place was. she sat in whilst the midwife explained the importance of informing the birth centre if i displayed any signs of pre-eclampsia or if i couldn’t feel more than 10 movements of boxer in a day. i told her that there was no danger of that happening as boxer is so active, especially at night. the midwife measured my bump and told me that i would probably have a baby weighing about 8/12 pounds. omg! hubby’s mum explained that hubby was over 9 pounds and he was 2 weeks early! my sisters and brother were all over 8 pounds (except for me, but i was 5 pounds at 3 weeks early, so i probably would have been big if i had come out full term). she told me not to worry though as he was placed in the optimal position, which apparently is the best position for birth. as my due date was in a couple of days she offered to do a sweep to kick-start labour within 48 hours. i joked and said, “since my mother-in-law is only here until the 15th we should do the sweep!” it was painful and very unpleasant, and the worse thing was that she couldn’t find my cervix. apparently, it was so far back that this sweep couldn’t be counted as a proper sweep. so she booked me in for another sweep on my due date. she did tell me that it doesn’t mean that labour will take a long time to start because my cervix is so far back, but she did offer me a sheet containing some natural induction techniques. i was quite surprised at some of the things on the list, to be honest. below is a list of what was on the sheet: slow down, rest/relax more yoga – deep squatting visualisation walking freeing yourself hug a friend’s/relative’s baby sorting out environment/nesting eating curry or spicy foods relaxing bath – aromatherapy oils as directed by the practitioner letting go – glass of wine, massage nipple stimulation sex (no sheath!) orgasm eating pineapple going to a qualified practitioner for aromatherapy: * using clary sage to encourage labour * lavendar for relaxation etc. they can be used as a massage oil, hot compress, in a burner or in the bath homeopathy cranial osteopathy shiatsu acupuncture/acupressure/moxa reflexology herbs – e.g. raspberry leaf tea etc sweeping of membranes by midwife spend time with your baby – talk to them i created an infographic too, which you can print off or pin to your pinterest board. a glass of wine? nipple stimulation? i’m not sure i would want to drink any alcohol now that i’m only in the last stages of pregnancy, so i’m surprised the nct advised this as a natural form of induction. maybe a little bit of alcohol doesn’t affect the pregnancy or the baby? i’m so confused about this part of pregnancy because there are so many conflicting resources out there! would you drink alcohol during your pregnancy? and, if so, how much is ok? after the check-up, mum-in-law and i decided to take a long walk up into town (one of the things i can check off in the natural induction list!) we passed a hairdresser along the way and she decided to spontaneously get her hair done. i offered to walk back to the flat, get her money, walk back to the hairdressers then go to starbucks to collect the christmas card, then back to the hairdressers, so i could speed up labour. but, i was knackered by the time i got back to the hairdressers, although happy that i had done something to help the baby along. samsung in the evening hubby came home from work and we all walked back into town for an italian meal. i looked like a penguin waddling down the street, but at least i slept like a log that night!! a fun fact – the baby is the size of a watermelon! the science part your baby at 39 weeks your baby isn’t growing much anymore, but their brain definitely is! your baby’s skin as turned white/grey and won’t have any pigment until after you have given birth your baby is likely weighing around 6 to 9 pounds or around 3 to 4kg your pregnancy signs and symptoms are you going to go into labour today? maybe tomorrow? it’s any time now! you may be experiencing more discharge than normal, which should be thin, white and not smell much. if you spot anything that looks like yellow or pinkish (bloody) mucus then you’re having a ‘show’, which is the sticky stuff that plugs up your cervix. once it comes out, it’s one of the first signs that the baby is on their way you may also be experiencing back pain as the baby moves down towards your pelvis. you may be feeling increased pressure at the bottom of your bump now too your next steps contact your midwife/gp if you have any of the following: bleeding from your vagina brown/pink discharge headache that won’t go away blurry vision, or sensitivity to light pain below the ribs extreme swelling of hands, feet, ankles and face constant tummy pains severe itching, particularly at night a high temperature but with no other cold or flu symptoms note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. have you already had your baby (congratulations!), but you’re still receiving pregnancy emails? just hit unsubscribe at the bottom of your email and sign up to ‘my motherhood’ posts to carry on with the personalised weekly emails for your baby up to 16 weeks old! form below: subscribe to receive personalised motherhood weekly emails here * indicates required first name * email address * your baby’s birthday * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:39 weeksnatural ways to bring on labourpregnant related posts 24 weeks pregnant – does drinking ... birth partners: doula or don’t ya? 21 weeks pregnant – found a new jo... 32 weeks pregnant – things are rea... 23 weeks pregnant – babies come wi... 13 weeks pregnant – ultrasound scan day! early signs of labour – and what t... 15 weeks pregnant – time is really... 27 weeks pregnant – my third trime... the benefits of walking during pregnancy 5 weeks pregnant – can you feel th... sm’s birth story the evolution of maternity dresses 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... 16 weeks pregnant – the morning si... 22 weeks pregnant – braxton hicks ... 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... imogen’s birth story 19 weeks pregnant – have i develop... should you really eat for two during pre... 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... 30 weeks pregnant – we’re mo... pregnancy & stis: what to do becoming a dad alfie’s birth story planning for the baby budget: how to pre... women have an equal role in gender selec... 7 weeks pregnant – i’m tired all t... aron’s birth story 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok