home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer freelancing non-fiction by vartika kashyap do you want to become a better content writer? ever since my childhood, i was fascinated with the idea of writing down my thoughts. i used to write personal notes, poems or odes for my loved ones. sometimes, i would pen down my introspections on life. there were a number of times when i lost some beautiful thoughts or ideas because i had no way of keeping them safe so i could write them up at a later date. it was in my late 20s when i started writing professionally on the subject of marketing. that is when i finally understood what a great role technology could play in streamlining my work as a writer and content marketer. if you are an aspiring writer or someone who is already practicing content marketing, this article will familiarize you with 4 killer apps that can help you become a better content writer. 1. buzzsumo being a content creator and marketer, you must know what kind of content is doing well on the web and who are the people killing it in your field. buzzsumo is a platform that can act as the holy grail to provide you with essential insights on content marketing. it works on the basis of social media analytics. as soon as you enter a search query, it shows you the results that have got the highest number of social shares and likes. this way you can analyze the best performing content in any market niche. you can keep a track of how your competitors are performing on social media and you can identify the biggest content influencers in any particular field as it shows their list with a click along with the data on audience engagement. if you truly want to become a better content writer this type of information is essential. in a nutshell, buzzsumo is a research tool that helps you build a long term content strategy and adjust it on the go. pros fast and intuitive provides 5 free searches per day ease of finding popular content and influencers cons pricey for startups steep learning curve for in-depth features 2. grammarly if you are a writer, you know that yours is a dynamic job. you are always looking for ways and means to better your craft. therefore constant learning and improvement should be a part and parcel of your life. grammarly is a tool that can be your expert friend around you while writing. grammarly does a lot more than checking the core grammar elements for you. grammarly assists you in avoiding wordiness and using concise phrases to make your writing impactful. grammarly not only checks your spelling, grammar, and punctuation but also explains these corrections, helping you to become a better content writer. grammarly also provides a weekly stat to its registered users in terms of their mastery percentage, productivity percentage, vocabulary percentage, etc. this way, grammarly tells you where you stand in terms of writing and what you need to improve. pros excellent interface across platforms fast and accurate grammar and spell check cons no offline mode limited free version 3. evernote as i mentioned, i lost many great ideas in the past due to the lack of a proper tool. well, evernote won’t let the same thing happen to you. it’s a popular note-taking app that lets you save all your thoughts, epiphanies, and ideas in one place, and access them even on the go. evernote makes the life of a writer easy in every way possible. research is the first step any writer carries out. with evernote, you can save all your research in one place with the web clipper feature. while evernote templates help you keep your writing organized and focussed, evernote tags help you categorize your work so you can find it easily later on. you can easily share your ideas and writeups with others using evernote and get quick feedback as well. pros capture ideas on the go share and collaborate on notes notes are auto-saved cons spell checkavailable only in english 4. calmly writer calmly writer is an app that helps you become a better content writer by helping you focus on your writing. as soon as you start writing, distracting elements disappear from your screen. the ‘focus mode’ option in calmly writer focuses only on the paragraph that you are editing at that moment. it automatically saves your writing every time a change is made. the responsive design and formatting options provided by calmly writer make it all the more attractive for writers. pros multiple shortcuts beautiful design easy to access cons no writing templates become a better content writer today go ahead and give these apps a try to streamline your writing. do you have any apps not listed here that helped you become a better content writer? tweet pin4 share71 75 shares related posts how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo by kristel staci 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer by mary jaksch about the author vartika kashyap vartika kashyap is the marketing manager at proofhub whose online marketing tool helps you become a better content marketer. she has been one of the linkedin top voices in 2018. her articles are inspired by office situations and work-related events. she likes to write about productivity, team building, work culture, leadership, entrepreneurship among others and contributing to a better workplace is what makes her click. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here visualize, organize, and write anything faster and easier than ever before! writer's blocks is simple, powerful writing software that makes your writing faster, easier and smarter. grab the fully-functional free trial of writer's blocks here make real money from your blogging – today, not in three year’s time the blogger's guides - complete four pack grab your guides here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >