skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us 4 best wordpress blog themes for beginners (both free and paid) lauren mcmanus updated: 1/15/20 • comments: 49 home » create and go blog » blog design » 4 best wordpress blog themes for beginners (both free and paid) disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin160 shares160 so… you’ve purchased your domain name, got your hosting, downloaded wordpress and you’re ready to hit the ground running on your new blog career! only to dive into wordpress and realize that you have no idea what you are doing… try as you might, you can’t get your blog design to look the way you want it to. header images pretty headlines setting up columns adding a newsletter sign-up posts and pages menus, headers, footers… oh my! you’re looking at someone else’s blog for ideas and banging your head against the wall trying to get your blog to cooperate and look like theirs… you’re tired and frustrated and wondering if you have made a colossal mistake because you are in way over your head. other people (ahem, alex and lauren) make it look so easy, right??? what am i doing wrong!? we get it, guys. we’ve been there. i remember spending literally hours trying to get our header image to display exactly how i wanted it to. alex could hear me huffing and puffing in frustration from the next room. i would read articles and watch tutorials and desperately try to learn a bit of coding to get the job done. and oftentimes, my efforts would be futile. so, what’s the deal? why is this so hard? why can’t you get your blog to look the way you want it to? first of all, there is one important thing that you must understand during this process: every wordpress theme comes with different pre-coded customizations, so every theme will make your blog look a little different and come with certain limitations. limitations meaning that you won’t necessarily be able to make your blog look exactly how you want it to. the themes with the most customizations usually cost a little more because of this. these limitations can only be overcome by… purchasing a new theme using css custom code to make changes installing the best blog plugins for customization hiring a web developer to add custom code to your website we’ve done all of the above at some point or another. we have paid web designers thousands of dollars to completely re-design both of our blogs (our first health and wellness blog and create and go). what!? do i need to do this!? absolutely not! we earned six figures from both of our blogs using the themes we are recommending in this article — without hiring a web developer! that only came much later when we had plenty of money to reinvest back into our business. in the beginning, we were just like you. no monies and no coding skills… for the first couple of years, we had to do the best we could with our very limited knowledge about wordpress, themes, website coding, etc. one thing we did do was spend the money for a great theme to be able to customize our blogs to look the way we wanted them to. here is an overview of what we’re going to cover in this article: table of contents close open what is a blog theme? and why does it matter so much? why you should avoid free blog themes the 4 best wordpress blog themes for beginners summary of blog theme recommendations what is a blog theme? and why does it matter so much? a theme is what is installed on your wordpress blog to allow you to make design customizations. think of it as what you see on the frontend of your blog — not the backend these themes have pre-programmed coding that allow you to make these customizations to your blog. customizations like… adding a header image to your homepage creating columns in your content changing your menu color and display adding your logo how your author box, sidebar, and other elements display on your blog the most important thing to remember is that not all wordpress themes were created equal. as we stated before, different themes have different coding written into their files and as a result, will allow you to customize different items and also look very different. choosing a wordpress theme for your blog is like choosing a car… like a great car, getting the right blog theme will take you exactly where you want to go in as little time as possible, and you may even enjoy the ride along the way! choose the wrong one and you’ll end up in a ditch on the side of the road with a flat tire and a dead cell phone. this is part of setting up a great foundation for your blog, along with getting a solid blog hosting plan. alex and i have tried quite a few cars on our journey. some of the best include: divi theme (#1 recommendation for new bloggers) avada thrive themes genesis (what we currently use) and then there were quite a few more that led us to ditches and dead cell batteries… why you should avoid free blog themes because you get what you pay for… honestly… as with pretty much any software in the blogging world (and elsewhere), free usually comes with: fewer customizations clunkier design less help and support from the provider and a whole lot of free headaches we started out with a free theme, just like a lot of you probably did or are doing. we would spend hours and hours trying to make our blog look like the design we had in mind — only to find out that it just wasn’t within our theme’s capabilities. but if this is all that is in your budget, that’s okay! we just want you to have the right expectations in place when you’re getting started. you will have to accept that there will be a tradeoff between your blog design and your budget. and one more parting note on this subject: know your worth. by worth, i mean your time. your time is an invaluable resource that you cannot get back. you must treat it as such and save it wherever you can — even if that requires spending a little money to do so. if you save $60 by opting for a free theme but then spend a solid 3 days trying to design your blog, you have essentially wasted far more than $60… time is money. please don’t waste it! it’s perfectly fine to start out with a free theme while you get the hang of how wordpress works and as you are publishing your first post, but just keep these things in mind as you begin to spend more time on the design of your blog. we’ve written this article to help you navigate this stage of upgrading your blog theme — aka choosing the right car. the 4 best wordpress blog themes for beginners for all of you preferred video learners out there, here is a video on the best wordpress blog themes (plus some extra tips!) from our youtube channel below. spoiler alert: we aren’t going to save the best for last, here. these are in order of our preference (recommendations) for beginner bloggers. 1. divi theme this is our #1 recommendation to our course students, so we’re not going to steer you in any other direction. divi is currently the most customizable and user-friendly theme for beginner bloggers on the market. it has a drag-and-drop editor that lets you design your blog and see how it looks in real-time, as you go along. you can make your home page look pretty much exactly how you want it to, and they have tons of resources to help you do so. they have an extensive library of written and video tutorials to show you how to use their theme and design your blog. more than any other theme i’ve seen. they also have a no-questions-asked, 30-day money-back guarantee, which is super important. some things don’t, which means you’re pretty much stuck after you buy it. with divi, you can give it a trial run, and if you don’t like it, you can either return it or you can try out any of the other 70+ themes that come with elegant themes — at no additional cost. downsides? well, for all of this awesomeness, it does, of course, come at a higher price tag. but you can try it before you decide to stick with it. it’s also a little bit slower than more powerful themes like genesis framework (more on that later), but it’s not enough to worry about at this stage. who this wordpress blog theme is perfect for: beginner bloggers who are completely new to wordpress and want full customization of their blog! so…. basically, everyone who’s not an advanced wordpress user. who it’s not for: more advanced users needing fewer customizations, anyone with a pretty good knowledge base of css, or anyone willing to pay for help from a web developer. next up on our list of best wordpress themes for bloggers… 2. avada theme avada is what we personally used for the first couple of months on our health and wellness blog. at the time that we used it, it had fewer customizations than it did today, so we switched to another theme. but they have made a lot of upgrades to it, and it’s super legit now! we’ve used it on a couple of blogs since then. avada has tons of customizations and also has quite a few tutorials and documentation to help you learn how to use the theme. it’s not quite as intuitive or user-friendly as divi, but if you’re on a serious budget, it’s a great second option! downsides? while it comes at a much lower price tag than divi, the tradeoff is that does come with a higher learning curve. the biggest downside of this time is that they have a very poor refund policy, in my opinion. they specifically do not offer refunds if you decide you don’t like it or it wasn’t what you were expecting. so, if you buy this theme, you’ll need to make it work for you. who this wordpress blog theme is perfect for: anyone who isn’t able to stomach the cost of divi but that still wants a lot of beginner-friendly customizations. who it’s not for: anyone who wants the flexibility of being able to try a couple of different themes to see what’s right for them. 3. flash theme (free) woohoo! this one is free! flash, by themegrill, is by far the best free theme on the market that we have found. it provides quite a bit of customization considering it’s a free theme. it’s still not going to be nearly as customizable as a theme like divi, but if a paid theme isn’t in your budget, this is a great option to start with. they also offer a paid version of the theme if you want to upgrade for additional features. if you want to see it in action, you can check out my personal website that is designed with flash: laurenmcmanus.com who is this theme for: anyone who just doesn’t have the budget for a paid theme. who is this theme not for: anyone wanting some serious customization on your homepage. 4. hestia theme (free) hestia, by themeisle, is another great free option! like with flash, you can make quite a few customizations on your homepage considering it’s totally free. you can change your menus, your header images, create columns, and all kinds of other good stuff. they also offer paid versions if you want additional customizations! flash is still my favorite as far as free themes go, but give hestia a try if you don’t love flash but still need to stick to a free theme! the almighty genesis framework we’re not calling this one #5, because the genesis framework isn’t technically for the average beginner. but we still want to discuss it here because you might have heard a thing or two about it — and because it’s currently what we are using on both of our blogs. the genesis framework, by studiopress, is generally considered to be the fastest theme on the market. this is why we originally purchased it for our health and wellness blog. but as we quickly learned, it’s very difficult to customize. we had to purchase the genesis framework, then purchase a genesis child theme, and then purchase a genesis customization plugin. and we still couldn’t customize much on our blog without custom coding. and we had over a year of blogging experience under our belts. we weren’t exactly “new” bloggers at this point. it’s often marketed by people as a great theme for beginners because it has a high affiliate payout, but in our honest opinion, it’s a terrible option for beginner bloggers. we only use it now because we have paid a small fortune to have web developers add custom coding to the theme to make it look actually like we want it to. genesis is like the lamborghini of cars… driven by a 5-year old… on the wrong side of the road. you’ll likely end up crashing and burning. real fast. haha okay, it’s not that bad… but beware that there is a much higher learning curve for this theme. who this theme is for: anyone wanting to start out with the best and fastest theme on the market that is willing to be challenged with a higher learning curve. who this theme is not for: anyone with a budget that needs a lot of customization on their website and would rather get it done in a much smaller amount of time. summary of blog theme recommendations here is an overview of our wordpress blog theme recommendations to help you get started choosing your car: divi — most customizable and user-friendly theme on the market avada — fewer customizations but better for the frugal blogger flash or hestia — great free options for the broke newbies genesis framework — for those of you that have to have the best of the best and are willing to pay for it and work for it if you found this article on best wordpress blog themes helpful, let me know in the comment section below! which one did you decide to go with?? get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin160 shares160 about lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. read this next 17 best wordpress plugins for blogs – 2020 edition there are literally thousands of wordpress plugins on the market and they can be a huge help when it comes to the customization and optimization of your blog. plugins can help to improve all kinds of different elements of your blog, including design, site speed, traffic, monetization, and more. but it’s important to have only […] keep reading > similar articles blog design 9 amazing blog ideas and topics (perfect for 2020) how to write a blog post in wordpress and publish it wordpress.com and wordpress.org for blogs (free vs. self-hosted) transfer a free blog to wordpress.org (self-hosted) in 5 steps see all blog posts 49 leave a reply 26 comment threads 23 thread replies 4 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 29 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest jessica hi everyone! with divi, do you recommend using with the standard theme (out of the box), or do you recommend plug-ins like divi blog module by divigear? thanks! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago admin alex and lauren hey jessica. there is no need for an additional plugin to design your divi site. you can either design it from scratch using the divi builder or use one of their pre-made templates. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago guest megan raphael this is the information i’ve been looking for for weeks and couldn’t find anywhere. the world of themes for a completely new blogger is completely overwhelming and your definitive recommendations are so helpful. thank you. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren awesome! glad we could help 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest haroon ur rashid i wonder how astra and oceanwp are not include. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest tina j ok, so i have finally made the steps forward to start my blog!!! but i started out with a free theme and im lost on how to purchase divi and transfer my current page before i add anymore content! help you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago admin alex and lauren hey tina, elegant themes (where you purchase divi from) has amazing tutorials on their website and youtube channel, including an article on how to change wordpress themes. here is an article i found from them: https://www.elegantthemes.com/blog/tips-tricks/everything-you-need-to-know-about-changing-wordpress-themes elegant themes support should be able to assist you too. if you need more hands-on support, grayson bell at imark interactive can help you with that: https://createandgo.com/imark-website-help you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago guest prechino i’ve found myself in this discuss spinning around for over a year now without much or nothing been done on my blog, av never loved any theme av chosen. but right now i would try out the free themes option cus my blog is literally on a low budget for now. thank you guys! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago admin alex and lauren happy to help 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago guest quickbook support its really a great and useful piece of information. i am glad that you shared this helpful info with us. please keep us up to date like this. thanks for sharing. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago admin alex and lauren great to hear! we go back to update post like this as it makes sense to do so 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago guest elaine thanks for the helpful post! i took your blogging course about two years ago, started many different blogs, (three) but… they were all boring and failed! plus, i am going slow because of being handicapped with ms. i finally have one that i believe is going to actually work. i am using 2016, it’s been the easiest free one that i have found, and it seems easy to understand. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago admin alex and lauren happy to hear you found something you like! keep us updated on your progress 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago guest anju thank you so much for your reply! can always count on you guys to get an answer back. respect ✊ will surely invest in one of your courses in the future as i start feeling more confident about blogging. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago guest anju thank you for the helpful posts as always! i got my bluehost domain and installed a free avada theme for now. how long is too long to spend on designing the blog and start publishing you think? i am still picking up the wp ropes. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago admin alex and lauren hey anju. i wouldn’t spend too much time on the blog design in the beginning. keep it simple and focus on producing great content. when learning any new software or platform, the beginning can be daunting and confusing. it’s going to take a few weeks working in wordpress and playing around with it for things to start becoming familiar. we have students that take our build and launch your blog course and launch within 4-5 weeks. others take longer. don’t get too bogged down in the design aspect. you can always tweak it and make improvements as you grow. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago guest gail *unboxed. and “ticked” as in, okay, it was clicked on and downloaded. now what????!!!! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago guest gail thanks. this was very helpful. now, how about a video about how to “inbox” the theme chosen! i have more time than money and more questions than answers so chose to go with a free wp theme (twenty-something???). it has. been ticked and downloaded but i have no idea what to do next! what is it? how do i use it? where can i find instructions or tutorials? is this suppose to make my blog pretty? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago admin alex and lauren you’ll be able to add design elements under appearance -> widgets you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago guest jesus did y’all make any money when you were using divi as y’alls theme? or did you start making money only after using genesis? i keep seeing bad reviews on divi being slow.. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago admin alex and lauren we originally started on x-theme and monetized with that, but the theme has changed significantly since then, so we don’t recommend it anymore. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago guest cathie thank you for the advice. a blogger suggested genesis for beginners, but i was unsure because the blogger showed some navigation and i truly didn’t understand the bit about coding. i will use divi you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren glad we could help, cathie! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest mary martin thanks for sharing such helpful details about blogging themes, it is really helps me. i am suggesting one more free wordpress theme that i am using it and it is bloggers lite wordpress theme. it is specially designed for bloggers, writers and authors to share the experience with the world. it is really good theme. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest monica i’m super excited! i did not pick any of the themes you guys offered, but after going into elegant themes, i’m definitely paying for elegant themes because i found another one that i really love, and since all the themes are available at that price i think it’s a great investment. thank you guys so much! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren glad to hear that, monica!! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest lw clay kinda newbie…broke newbie (9 years of cancer treatment side effects and counting. ugh) i’m using the freebie primer. it doesn’t do everything i want, but you knew that already. good to know there are some that will do what i want, when i get to where i’m making some cash to upgrade. i’m an author with a newly published book: demontown, and am blogging as a (future) second income from book sales. the book is fiction, but wraps up being about inner demons, which is what my blog is about. anyway, i love your youtube account, which lead me here… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thank you for sharing your story!!! definitely doesn’t hurt to start with freebies until you’re ready to take the next step up! 😉 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest luciana hello. i just found you guys recently and i’m having a great time reading your tips. so, i’m about to start a blog and i’m trying to learning how to use wordpress. my question is, do you think is it a good idea start using the wordpress free theme ? i’ve heard they have good options and user-friendly. have you tried it? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren free themes are usually very limited, as we described above. but if it’s not in your budget, it’s definitely okay to start there and upgrade when you’re ready. just make sure that you don’t spend too much time trying to fight with your free theme to make your blog look the way you want it to. with free themes, it’s often best to settle on a very simple blog design until you are able to purchase one that has more customizability! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest linda p catalino i am an old newbie. definitely helpful. i got divi. just setting things up this minute and a little intimidated, but i’ll get over it. i see there is lots of support, and i’m not afraid to ask stupid questions, so we’ll see. again, as i posted on fb, i love your fresh, genuine, and digestible delivery of all of this info. merry christmas to you guys. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thank you, linda!!! merry christmas to you as well!! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest lonney c. smith hi, this is no real problem and i have enjoyed you videos a great deal and i have learned a lot from you already. i have signed up a couple of times for your 7day free course but nothing ever shows up in my email. just thought i would mention it to you. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey lonney, i’m sorry to hear that you had some trouble signing up for our free course. if you wouldn’t mind sending us an email at [email protected], i can look into this for you and make sure that you get signed up right away! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest ben wow! this is really helpful! thank you so much! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest vilna i wish i saw this post like a few hours ago! i’m a newbie blogger and absolutely gave up on genesis. so much so that i bought a theme from pipdig after doing some research and getting some recommendations from other bloggers. i totally agree with investing in a really good theme but as a newbie it makes more sense trying out something more user friendly. i’d say this is one of the reasons why i haven’t been motivated to do much with my blog yet. with that being said here’s hoping i have better luck with my new pipig… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren good luck, vilna!!! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest australian country gypsy i did the same…and then the pipdig shenanigans went down and now i feel like i am back to square one. :/ despite finally making progress on my blog. the hurdles you face when a new blogger. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago admin alex and lauren those who persist will find success! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago guest shubham rajput hey alex and lauren i find your posts cool and refreshing. i am handling a blog network right now and will definitely seek your advice as the network matures. keep up the good work love from india you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thank you!! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest tj hines thanks for the info. very helpful for a beginning blogger. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thanks, tj! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest keri this is one of the simplest explanations of how to find the best theme i have read. thank you so much! i am one of those “broke newbies” so am hanging on to my free theme for a bit. as soon as i can, though, i want to switch to xtheme. thank you so much. i appreciate the insight as i am starting out. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thank you, keri!! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest aman kawatra thanks a lot for this information. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thank you, aman! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest sandy i am a newbie and i thank you for giving these details on the different themes! you definitely put me on a good path to start! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren so glad to hear that they helped you, sandy! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents what is a blog theme? and why does it matter so much? why you should avoid free blog themes the 4 best wordpress blog themes for beginners summary of blog theme recommendations footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz