australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video politics 03/27/2020 16:01 edt | updated 1 hour ago 4 die on cruise ship with passengers who tested positive for coronavirus the four “older” guests who died were on a holland america cruise ship with at least two positive coronavirus cases and dozens of passengers and crew with flulike symptoms. by sarah ruiz-grossman, huffpost us four passengers have died on a holland america cruise ship carrying several people with confirmed covid-19 cases and dozens with symptoms of illness. the four people who died were “older,” according to a friday statement from the cruise company, which is owned by carnival. the company did not immediately respond to huffpost questions on whether the deaths were caused by covid-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus. at least two people onboard the ship have tested positive for coronavirus so far, and 53 passengers and 85 crew have reported “influenza-like” illness symptoms, per the cruise company. the company did not confirm how many of the ship’s 1,243 guests and 586 crew had been tested. there are four doctors and four nurses on the ship, currently off the coast of panama. while holland america halted its global cruise operations on march 13, amid the rapidly spreading coronavirus pandemic and several outbreaks on other cruise ships, this particular ship was already mid-travel, having departed march 7. all guests have stayed onboard the ship since the operations halt. passengers on the ship have been told to self-isolate in their rooms since march 22, after a “number” of guests displayed flulike symptoms. update: this morning aboard zaandam, 13 guests and 29 crew reported to the ship’s medical center with influenza-like symptoms. out of an abundance of caution, all guests are asked to remain in their staterooms until we have more information. full update >> https://t.co/1sb6smfkwo — holland america line (@halcruises) march 22, 2020 as of yesterday, with centers for disease control and prevention guidance, the zaandam ship has been transferring healthy guests to another ship, the rotterdam — keeping those who are ill and the crew onboard. additional medical supplies and staff were also brought onboard. they are still finalizing a disembarkation plan for both ships, aiming to get to fort lauderdale, florida, in the coming days. this follows two other carnival cruise ships with coronavirus cases in recent weeks: the grand princess cruise ship, on which earlier this month more than 20 passengers tested positive for covid-19, and which docked and unloaded in oakland, california; and the diamond princess cruise ship, which was the site of a covid-19 outbreak off the coast of japan last month, in which hundreds of passengers had to be quarantined for weeks. major cruise companies halted their operations earlier this month following several outbreaks and as coronavirus cases ballooned worldwide. earlier this month, the cdc and the state department recommended that americans avoid cruise ships at the moment, particularly older adults and those with underlying health conditions. there were nearly half a million confirmed coronavirus cases worldwide and over 20,000 deaths, per the world health organization on thursday. the united states now has the most cases of any country, with over 94,000 cases as of friday, per a johns hopkins analysis. a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic trump rejects new york’s desperate plea for ventilators what you need to know about at-home coronavirus test kits how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off avoiding going to the store? here’s how to order groceries online. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction sarah ruiz-grossman reporter, huffpost more: coronavirus travel and tourism covid-19 cruise ship trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow politics get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to the politics newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.