project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure kids craft ideas 4 fun creative things to do with the kids share pin video tutorials for 4 fun creative things to do with the kids being a crafter by profession, i involve my kids as much as i can. i put together this round up video of 4 fun creative things to do with the kids. in it, you will learn how to: make foam airplane clothespins dip strawberries for carrot patch pudding cups create you own hand puppets make tie dye shirts here are some quick details before we get to the video. airplane clothespins original post: airplane clothespin craft video time: 15 minutes my daughter and i made these years ago before she started elementary school. all you need is foam sticks, glue, and clothespins. over the years, teachers have emailed me sharing that they made these in class with their kids as project to clip homework together! add a magnet on the back and clip them to your refrigerator to hang your child’s artwork. carrot patch pudding cups original post: easy carrot patch pudding cups time 30 minutes a fun idea for spring, this activity is great for when you want to be creative but your hungry at the same time. it’s also the perfect to serve the kid’s for dessert for easter or a springtime party. play around with different colored candy melts and cookies. hand puppets original post: hand puppet paper craft time: 15 minutes another project that came about when my daughter wasn’t in school yet, we made these one day for fun when messing around in the craft room. all you need is pipe cleaners and wiggly eyes. if you don’t have a circle punch, simply trace a circular shaped object and cut out the circles. tie dye shirts original post: how to tie dye shirts time: 1 hour this is a fun anytime craft. you can do it with shirts, bags, socks, etc. the original post has lots of ideas for different tie dye patterns as well. this activity is great for vbs or girl or boy scouts but be careful! it’s messy; so, doing this outdoors is ideal. watch the 4 fun creative things to do with the kids video it’s tutorial video time! you can click back to each post if you want step by step instructions, but if your visual, here is the video for all four activities! enjoy! you may also like how to bake a painted mug diy doll starbucks drinks back to school photo notebook labels dragonfly clothespin craft for kids 47 easy craft ideas for kids before you go, here is another fun video on some super easy felt breakfast food for pretend play. save those plastic easter eggs! like it? pin it! leave a comment join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « diy doll starbucks drinks next post: diy costume beard and mustache » reader interactions leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more