4 new items your closet needs in 2020 – lifestyle by ps
  home sweatshirts t-shirts blog expand submenu blog collapse submenu blog fashion fitness grooming log in create account cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us your cart close cart site navigation home sweatshirts t-shirts blog fashion fitness grooming log in search cart cart 4 new items your closet needs in 2020 mar 19, 2020 all the money in the world can’t buy you style. sure, having unlimited assets may allow you to purchase fancy european duds, but looking good is about a lot more than high-priced clothes. even legendary — and high-end — designer yves saint laurent told us that “fashions fade; style is eternal." what you really need is a range of outfits and fashion-forward items at your disposal, so you can always leave your house looking and feeling great. one great strategy is to prioritize the perfect combination of functionality and style — and do so affordably. by going with some versatile options that work in different situations, you’ll be saving money and staying stylish. that way, you can invest in fewer, higher-quality, more flexible items and still not feel guilty for going overboard. how do you do it right? well, for one, you don’t have to hop on every passing fad. and, the following items will provide you with some great looks that are sure to have the staying power and versatility you need to upgrade your wardrobe this season. 1. jackets and coats there will always be some seasonal variance, but lots of people tend to leave the house wearing some sort of jacket. which means you need a few good options in this department. and unless you’re going mountain climbing and need the ultimate in performance gear, investing in more jackets and/or coats is usually better than just splurging on one. with summer around the corner, you will absolutely want a few fresh, lightweight options — ideally in a few fun, bright colors. beyond that, mix in some classics like a denim jacket or small leather piece that are appropriate and stylish year-round. 2. light sweaters when it comes to versatility and getting the most bang for your buck, nothing beats a light sweater. indeed, this garment works just as well at the beach during the summer over a dress with tiny straps and exposed shoulders as it does layered in the winter beneath a jacket. it’s the best of both worlds. while there is a whole world of options to choose from, the tried-and-true designs, like hot-right-now turtlenecks and cardigans, never got out of fashion. and, solid colors are great and pair with anything. 3. undergarments sometimes the best things in life are beneath the surface. this is as true in fashion as it is throughout life, and the things you wear under your show-stopping outfits can make all the difference. when you put on some lingerie that makes you do a double-take in the mirror, that confidence and elegance will be unmistakable. sure, this item may be hidden from view, but the feeling you get from wearing it will exude outward for the whole world to see. 4. bandanas and wraps you know you need to be on the lookout for items that are cheap and make a bold difference in your wardrobe. so, look no further than head wraps and colorful bandanas — these are the perfect accessories to take things up a notch — for your hair. even a ho-hum cardigan-and-jeans look can be elevated easily with a little pop of color up top. you'll spend next to nothing on these items, and they will become one of the simplest ways to make a small statement without having to try all that hard. revamping your closet today it’s a new decade, meaning it’s time to feel eager and encouraged every time you open your closet — not bored and unable to find a look you like. this will take a little bit of investment, but you can make a big stylish splash without destroying your budget. get yourself some colorful jackets, a few light classic sweaters, confidence-boosting lingerie and a few hair accessories for extra flair. with all this at your fingertips, there's no event or outing that will catch you off guard. if you get your closet right this season, you'll always be ready with a wardrobe fit for work, a date night or the next big gala. tags: closet needs in 2020 share share on facebook tweet tweet on twitter pin it pin on pinterest leave a comment name email message please note, comments must be approved before they are published more from the blog popularity of enhancing the septum jewelry ... read more women and fashion this summer! ... read more tips to assist you when purchasing the perfect shoes for the workplace ... read more our site is built on shopify. you can too build a money making store. start your store on shopify click here to try shopify for free (14 days free trial with this link) ← back to capsule wardrobe for women disclosure : lifestyle by ps is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us facebook twitter pinterest instagram google plus © 2020, lifestyle by ps ecommerce software by shopify paypal inr aud cad eur gbp usd search