home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us uncategorized 4 smart and effective ways to get rich uncategorized 4 smart and effective ways to get rich by shashank jain - september 17, 2018 286 0 - advertisment - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp money is something that almost everyone wants. there are very few people that actually know how to make it. according to what most people think, you need to do something out of the way to become rich, but in reality, all you need is to be smart and creative to become successful. you need to have an idea, and the way you are going to implement is going to mark the status, whether you are going to be successful or not. the first thing to do to become successful is to stop looking for shortcuts. you need to stop daydreaming about winning a lottery or finding money magically. be practical and get yourself on your feet and start doing something about your dreams. self-employment if you are going to work hard, work for yourself instead of making your days hard for someone else, who is going to get all the profit, and you are going to get just a percentage of it. also, when you are doing the job for someone else, there are very fewer chances of exposure and growth, you make progress at the very low rate. one thing you will notice about all the successful people is that they are making full use of their talents. they have found their interest, and they are just trying to improve it every day and making the most out of it. if you are clueless about how to start with the process, here are some ideas on how to get rich. investments make your mind that you are only going to make money, once you throw in some. without making any investment, there are absolutely no chances of becoming successful. also, be generous whilst making the investments. the more money you through it, the more you will be able to make. i’m not saying that you should talk the chance and invest whatever you have in just one go. but if there are some important aspects that require good investment, you should go for it. be fully dedicated to your work set your priorities. if your priority is just to make money. you are already on the wrong path. serve the purpose of your job, and you are going to get the reward. be sincere to yourself and to your job and leave the rest on fate. stressing about making more money is not getting you anywhere, instead, it will increase the stress level. also, keep in mind, that money making process is going to take a while, you are not going to be filthy rich overnight. it is going to take a while, sometimes might have to face certain failures to become successful. stop spending money on stupid things “you only live once”, the concept is making people do some silly stuff. yes, you do only live once, but it does not mean you have got to waste money. if you are off to buy something, just ask yourself one question, do you really need it? is it worth it? how many times are you going to use it? how is it going to bring positive change in your life? - advertisement - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp previous articlesome effective tips that can help you in choosing right type of spy app next articlebest dating apps for ios 2018 shashank jain shashank jain, founder of iphone-s, a young and energetic entrepreneur has always been fond of technology. his liking for technology made him go for engineering in computers. during his studies, he learned & worked on different computer languages & os including hbcd, linux, etc. he also has a keen interest in ethical hacking. leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. must read chatroulette apps for android & ios anshi - modified date: march 19, 2020 0 full guide on satisfactory save game location anshi - modified date: march 18, 2020 0 how to use cxbx emulator – way to play on cxbx ashish lavania - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 how cryptocurrency works: a complete guide by hedgespots anshi - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? shashank jain - modified date: march 7, 2020 0 - advertisement - sponsored postshashank jain - march 7, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? it’s perfectly normal to think that apple doesn’t make mistakes when it comes to technology. however, they do. when first... read more uncategorizedshashank jain - march 5, 2020 0 6 email marketing trends that make it a must-use marketing strategy if you are not using email marketing to promote your brand, products or services, you are missing out on... read more must read carplayshashank jain - august 20, 2016 1 how to set up carplay how to set up carplay apple carplay is an infotainment... read more buisness appshashank jain - july 8, 2016 0 top 10 best shopify apps one of the important things about shopify is the... read more trending tech 8 amazing yoga and meditation apps for iphone users shashank jain - december 13, 2017 0 top 4 pocket wod free app for ipad/ iphone – crossfit app shashank jain - january 7, 2017 0 top 6 nature & wildlife mobile apps shashank jain - november 20, 2016 0 - advertisement - you might also likerelated recommended to you uncategorized 6 email marketing trends that make it a must-use marketing strategy if you are not using email marketing to promote... shashank jain - march 5, 2020 0 read more uncategorized the advancement of technology through the years: smartphones think about the launch of a product, any product.... shashank jain - february 17, 2020 0 read more uncategorized top 5 best scheduling apps for for better time management on iphone today, in this fast-moving world, more and more people... shashank jain - february 4, 2020 0 read more uncategorized best iphone storage cleaning apps for 2020 there is nothing in the world more frustrating than... shashank jain - january 30, 2020 0 read more © copyright 2018 - iphone-s.com factspress