home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership 4 strategic benefits of having a vision michael and megan 00:33:07 download transcript as a leader, you know you’re responsible for the vision of your company. and you have one—sort of. it exists in the back of your head, but it’s really hard to get it down on paper. there never seems to be enough time to do it. and, when it comes right down to it, you’re not all that sure why it matters. it’s hard enough to keep your business going from day to day. who has time for navel gazing? if there’s one thing we’ve learned with over 50 years of combined business experience, it’s that vision matters! rather than thinking of it as another task on your list. start to see vision as a tool for creating the future you desire. in this episode, we’ll show you four ways that having a clear vision gives you a strategic advantage over your competition. when we’re done, you’ll know exactly how important this process is, and you’ll be dying to turn off the podcast and start writing a vision script of your own! here’s what you’ll get from this episode— get a simple, practical definition of vision. find out why vision is a low priority for many leaders, and why that’s dangerous. learn the best way to keep your business proactive (not reactive). discover the biggest single pitfall of lacking vision. see how a clear vision makes it easier to make big decisions. get tips on improving your execution by connecting it to vision. understand why team members won’t (and can’t) follow a leader who lacks vision. get clear on the best way to keep yourself (and your team) focused when things get tough. learn the very best way to make your vision real for your team. get fired up about articulating your own vision for the future! after you’ve listened to this episode, here’s your next step. download our free resource 3 strategic pitfalls to avoid in 2020, and use it to begin formulating your vision for the next three to five years. share with friends here’s a shoutout to one of our listeners, “michellejsl,” who left this review of the podcast on itunes. she wrote: “i especially appreciate the recent episodes with megan hyatt miller discussing issues that working women face both at work and at home. thank you for including real-life examples, practical solutions, and principles to consider when evaluating my wins both professionally and personally.” you’re welcome michelle. that’s all part of the double win. we want you all to win at work and succeed at life. and thanks to all of you who have rated and reviewed the podcast. if you haven’t done that yet, we’d love to hear from you. just tap the “rate this podcast” button within your app. or you check out the tutorial in our show notes at leadto.win. resources from this episode 3 strategic pitfalls to avoid in 2020 resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe 3 strategic pitfalls to avoid in 2020 posted on tuesday, january 28, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed