home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 4 steps to achieving your author dream create a book tips for writers by chandler bolt it’s not as hard to achieve your author dream as you may think. writing a successful book in a short space of time might sound like a difficult task. impossible, even. back in the day, i might have agreed with you. i didn’t see myself as particularly good at english, or the type of person cut out to be a writer. but i ended up publishing several bestselling books and discovering a process to help countless others do the same. it all comes down to a series of steps that can help you go from aspiring author to published bestseller in a shorter time than you dreamed possible. if you’re ready to take action and make your book writing dream a reality, read on. i’ll show you exactly how it’s done. step 1 – correct mindset and finding your why it might sound obvious, but a huge part of writing a successful book is finding the right mindset. let’s face it. achieving your author dream may not be easy. it’s worth it, but at times you might feel stressed out and low on motivation. when tough times strike, you need to have the right mindset and a deep enough reason for writing your book that you find the drive to carry on and get it done. here are some tips on finding your why when writing your book. purpose. what purpose does your book have? if you are writing nonfiction, you are likely to be solving a problem. make sure this problem is important enough to you that it motivates you. if you are writing fiction, you are writing to entertain. be sure you are passionate about your genre so you are motivated to achieve your author dream for your future readers. audience. who are you writing for? it’s often far more motivational to think about the people we are writing our book for. this might be a specific person in your life or an archetype of your intended reader. whoever it happens to be, hold your audience in your mind to motivate you. legacy. there’s something special about putting your name on a book. it’s a way of ensuring your ideas are out there in the world, independent of you. when you find yourself running low on energy, think about the concept of legacy. your book will speak for you, so make sure it’s saying something worth hearing. adopting the correct mindset will make every other aspect of writing your book easier. next, it’s time to get down to the practical steps. free workshop: how to write & launch your book to $10,000+ in 90 days the busy person’s guide to getting it done in just 30 minutes per day click here to join step 2 – choose tools & schedule time we live in an era of unparalleled technology. we have access to information and writing resources that authors of the past could only have dreamed of. however, unless we use these tools in a smart and considered way they can end up hurting us more than helping. when it comes to the time to choose your writing tools and schedule out your book project, keep the following ideas in mind. the smallest number possible. you don’t want to overload yourself with different book writing tools. choose the smallest number possible. for example, you might want to limit yourself to one tool for writing and another for editing. realistic. if you’re someone who has never written for more than an hour or so a day, don’t suddenly schedule in six-hour writing marathons! make your schedule demanding or achievable. it’s a lot better to set a plan you stick to so you see progress and feel the momentum. buffer time. you don’t want to set a schedule that allows no time for delays or setbacks. try and schedule a little extra time for each stage of your book writing plan. from my years coaching authors with their books, i know how important this can be. choose tools which you will be able to learn relatively quickly, or ideally have experience using. no tool is a substitute for a great idea, but choosing the right ones can make your book writing process a lot smoother. step 3 – hold yourself accountable after choosing your book writing tools and setting a schedule, it’s time to execute your plan. this is the step that many authors struggle with. when you are writing and releasing your book, there is often no one else chasing you. you have to be disciplined and motivated as you are the only person responsible for getting it done. the solo conditions of book creation can lead to schedules getting ignored and progress slowing down. given the importance of sticking to your schedule and getting your book out there into the world, how can you hold yourself accountable? buddy up. one way to overcome the issue of having to hold yourself accountable is to get a buddy. find another author who will be your mutual accountability partner. you will check in with each other regularly and ensure you stay on track. consider coaching. perhaps the most popular and valuable aspect of my self publishing school program is the deep relationship authors build with their coaches. having someone to show you the ropes and help you see the big picture can make all the difference. make it public. if you’re the only person who knows your deadline, it’s easy to cheat on it! get the word out on social media, and tell your friends and family. this external pressure can be motivational when it’s close to the finish line! holding yourself accountable is key to getting your book out there into the world where it can change lives. thankfully, you don’t have to do it alone. draw upon your fellow authors, experienced coaches, and the power of public pressure to give yourself the motivation you need. step 4 – publication and marketing in the era of self-publishing, writing your book is only part of the process! a successful publication and marketing strategy are crucial to see your book succeed. however, for many authors, marketing their work is outside of their comfort zone. the good news is that you don’t need to become a marketing master to see success. sticking to a few tried and tested approaches is the best way to approach book marketing, particularly as a newcomer. here are some good ideas for you to put into practice when launching and marketing your book. consider free. consider offering your book for free for some time. this can attract reviews and momentum which then allow you to move to a paid offering. promotion sites. submit your book to promotion sites that have a track record of success within your genre or niche. they often have eager mailing lists of readers waiting for books just like yours. lean on your network. hopefully, you’ve taken the time to build a network of fellow authors and readers in your genre. when it’s time to launch your book, don’t be shy about it! people want to see you succeed and will happily help if given the chance. while book marketing might seem daunting, learning it is key to ensuring your book gets the recognition you deserve. what’s your biggest challenge in achieving your author dream? thanks for checking out my tips on going from an aspiring author to a published bestseller. i’d love to get your take. what’s the biggest thing holding you back from getting started on releasing your dream book? what’s the part of the book creation process you find the most challenging? feel free to drop a comment and we’ll continue the discussion! free workshop: how to write & launch your book to $10,000+ in 90 days the busy person’s guide to getting it done in just 30 minutes per day click here to join tweet pin share related posts how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous by laura tong 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson about the author chandler bolt 6-time bestselling author & founder of self-publishing school, chandler has shown hundreds of students how to achieve their author dream. join him and mary for a free workshop: how to write & launch your book to $10,000+ in 90 days ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions >