home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership 4 steps to generate clear vision michael and megan 00:29:25 download transcript as a leader, you know you need a vision for your business. and you want to generate that vision so you can communicate it to your team. there’s just one problem. you don’t know how! is vision some mystical thing that comes down from the mountain? do you need to get away to the desert? it’s confusing! you might even conclude that you just don’t get the “vision thing.” good news: we’ve been leading with vision for decades, and we have totally demystified the subject of generating your vision for the future. we’ll outline that process in four steps that you can begin taking today. when you do, you’ll realize that you do have a vision. and you can articulate it for yourself and your team. you’ll gain instant confidence in your ability to lead. and you’ll be well on your way to creating the roadmap to your future. in this episode you will— understand the difference between mission and vision. identify the biggest roadblock leaders face when generating vision. realize the high cost of aiming too low. get a simple hack to help you see what the future could be. see why a slogan is not the same as a vision. find out how to make your vision compelling to others. learn the best way to refine and improve your vision. gain the confidence to define the future you want to create! after you’ve listened to this episode, here’s your next step. download our free resource 3 strategic pitfalls to avoid in 2020, and use it to begin formulating your vision for the next three to five years. your future starts now! have we seen you on instagram? if not, we’d love to. that’s our current favorite social channel. and we both love to interact with listeners there. follow us @michaelhyatt and @meganhyattmiller. you’ll get a peek behind the scenes as we record the podcast, launch new products, and even share some family fun. this is your very best way to keep in touch, and we’d love to see you there! resources from this episode 3 strategic pitfalls to avoid in 2020 “the ultimate collaborative workspace” lead to win episode “a place to call our own” by suzie barbour the focused leader one-day intensive @michaelhyatt on instagram @meganhyattmiller on instagram resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe 3 strategic pitfalls to avoid in 2020 “the ultimate collaborative workspace” “a place to call our own” by suzie barbour @michaelhyatt on instagram @meganhyattmiller on instagram posted on monday, february 3, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed