home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership 4 ways to make reading fun again michael and megan 00:33:06 download transcript as a leader, you know you should be developing a consistent reading habit, but you struggle to prioritize it. here’s the good news—the problem isn’t what you’re reading, it’s how and why you’re reading. in today’s episode, michael and megan identify four purposes for reading. if you adopt them, you’ll fall in love with reading again. you’ll be swimming in new ideas and feel on top of your game! you’ll discover— why comprehension and retention are not the most important targets. how many books michael, megan, & larry read each year (you might be surprised). suggestions for capturing ideas when you’re listening to audiobooks. the impact of reading on your social life and relationships. why you need to read books that you may not necessarily agree with. pros and cons of physical books, ebooks, and audiobooks. one thing leaders absolutely must have (that reading provides). resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe leaderbooks the vision grader posted on tuesday, march 3, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed