home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog first trimester my pregnancy pregnancy next 4 weeks pregnant – first month of pregnancy leyla preston thu 1st apr 2010 0shares share tweet pin table of contents welcome to the very first injection of motherhood diaries’ pregnancy weekly diaries, which dates all the way back to 2010! this personal weekly journal was how motherhood diaries was born and i’m so glad to share an updated version for you. if you are pregnant, then please follow along, i include a science part related to you and your baby every week of your pregnancy. my journey through pregnancy begins here, at 4 weeks pregnant. good luck on your own personal journey… subscribe to our mailing list a fun fact – your baby is a ball of cells (an embryo) – about the size of an apple pip! the science part your baby at 4 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps welcome to the very first injection of motherhood diaries’ pregnancy weekly diaries, which dates all the way back to 2010! this personal weekly journal was how motherhood diaries was born and i’m so glad to share an updated version for you. if you are pregnant, then please follow along, i include a science part related to you and your baby every week of your pregnancy. my journey through pregnancy begins here, at 4 weeks pregnant. good luck on your own personal journey… if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. i was only a week late for my period, but i had known straight away that something was not quite right with my insides. i didn’t experience any of the normal pms symptoms (except for the mood swings), and i wasn’t bloated like i normally am in the run up to my period. was i stressed? did i have my dates wrong? were my husband and i careful? i confided in hubby, who insisted that we wait a few more days before i bought a pregnancy test kit, as we had experienced multiple scares before, and the result was always the same – a late welcome from aunt flo and cousin red. however, this time, something inside had told me not to wait any longer because i felt different. that night, i sucked in my stomach as i stared at myself in the mirror and reassured my reflection that there was no way i was pregnant. i couldn’t sleep that night… the next day i bought two pregnancy test kits. i had never been so shocked in my entire life when i glanced at the results of the first pregnancy test with one eye open and it was a big fat positive! i almost fell over the toilet when i tested myself the second time and the clearblue pregnancy test told me that i was 2-3 weeks pregnant (or 4-5 weeks based on my period cycle). my husband and i looked at each other, stunned. when it had finally sunk in, after a moment or two, our facial paralysis slowly softened to smiles. after all this freaking out – or lack thereof – our reactions were one of joy! i never, ever thought that i would experience elation upon finding out about my pregnancy. however, this ginormous, life changing news had forced me to mull over my life in general. we were renting a flat in london and i had always envisioned a house with a garden, enough money in the bank, a great job that paid well, and the ability to set up a child trust fund for my children. but, i just felt like we hadn’t really accomplished any of those things yet. could we raise a child now? would we be able to afford the childcare costs? what about when i stopped working? my husband and i depended on my income too, so if i wanted to be a stay-at-home mum (or at least until our baby started school) how would we get by? i had started temping at an international legal consultancy firm and was earning my keep that way. i really wanted this job to last until december, otherwise, i would have to go on the job hunt again and i wasn’t a particularly desirable candidate, so finding a job would prove even more difficult than normal. why did i quit my permanent full-time job in february…? as i had found out so early on that i was pregnant, waiting a further two months for medical confirmation from the doctor was going to prove difficult, as i was already growing impatient. so, i downloaded the ipregnancy app for the iphone, which had predicted that i was due on 10 december 2010. i had swiped through forthcoming weeks and got to as far as 20 weeks before i had to put the iphone down. i was now massively overwhelmed, yet i couldn’t pinpoint exactly how i was feeling. we phoned our parents to tell them the news. i could hear my mum squealing with glee in the background that she was going to become a grandmother, while my dad had suddenly lost the use of his voice. but, it hadn’t really sunk in for me yet. and, in the back of my mind, i was worried that telling our families was putting a hex on the pregnancy a little bit. i was only four weeks pregnant, so literally anything can happen from now, right? should i be thinking about the possibility of miscarriage? a little word of advice – take each week one step at a time. if your pregnancy was unplanned, like mine, you’ll either freak out at the way your body will change or you’ll become increasingly excited at what’s in store for you from now on, but become overwhelmed with all this new information to process. i just freaked out… a fun fact – your baby is a ball of cells (an embryo) – about the size of an apple pip! the science part your baby at 4 weeks the embryo is now the size of a poppy seed. the embryo is starting to develop and grow within the lining of your womb. the outer cells link up to your blood supply the inner cells divide into two, and then later, three layers inner layer (endoderm) breathing and digestive systems (lung, stomach, gut, and bladder) middle layer (mesoderm) heart, blood vessels, muscles, and bones outer layer (ectoderm) brain and nervous system, the eye lenses, tooth enamel, skin, and nails. the embryo receives nourishment from a tiny yolk sac, which, in a few weeks later, will form into the placenta. your baby will be less than 3cm long. your pregnancy signs and symptoms if you haven’t done so already, take a home pregnancy test to confirm that you are pregnant. your pregnancy is calculated from the date of your last period. your body will change, but you may not notice any symptoms yet. you may experience tender breasts and slight bleeding. you will need to book an appointment with your gp if you haven’t done so already, so that doctors can perform a brief check-up, including taking a urine sample to check for any urinary tract infections. your doctor should explain about antenatal care, lifestyle and nutritional advice. you should start taking folic acid daily to protect the baby from spinal cord defects like spina bifida. you can take supplements like vitabiotics pregnacare which contain the right amount of folic acid for you to take every day. your next steps once you receive a positive pregnancy test, call your doctor or midwife to set up your first prenatal appointment start eating whole foods and avoid smoking and alcohol if you haven’t done so already, start taking a prenatal vitamin exercise is a great way to ease you into pregnancy and keep both you and the baby healthy. you should be able to do the actvities you did before, but speak to your doctor about any vigorous exercises to see if changes to your routine are necessary. note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:babychild trust fundfamily planningpregnancypregnancy test kit related posts natural ways to bring on labour rights and benefits what do you really need for your new bab... alfie’s birth story press release – launch of motherhood dia... the reality of motherhood 7 weeks pregnant – i’m tired all t... 33 weeks pregnant – it’s my ... my top ten tips for travelling with tiri... 19 weeks pregnant – have i develop... all i ever wanted was to be a mum oral b pro expert premium gum protection... how to strengthen your pelvic floor afte... the top pregnancy must-haves list for ex... thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... 9 weeks pregnant – what is this metallic... is it safe to use self-tanner while preg... thinking about your baby’s future:... 10 ways to feel good during pregnancy 15 weeks pregnant – time is really... planning for the baby budget: how to pre... jack’s birth story 28 weeks pregnant – i can hear my ... getting past distrust: pregnancy after a... coping with colic how to dress your baby in the spring 21 weeks pregnant – found a new jo... indigestion and heartburn during pregnan... 22 weeks pregnant – braxton hicks ... 10 weeks pregnant – appointment letters ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok