english 日本語 deutsch english español português français contact sales log in get hubspot free home software software free hubspot crm all your contacts and companies, 100% free. marketing hub all-in-one marketing software, starting at $0/month. sales hub all-in-one sales software, starting at $0/month. service hub all-in-one customer service software, starting at $0/month. app marketplace find hubspot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business. pricing resources resources blog read marketing, sales, agency, and customer success blog content. customer stories hear from the businesses that use hubspot to grow better every day. developers create apps and custom integrations for businesses using hubspot. ebooks, guides & more get access to hubspot’s most popular marketing resources. onboarding & services find training and consulting services to help you thrive with hubspot. research & reports get up-to-date research and data on hot business trends. free courses & certifications take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts. what is inbound? get a primer on how inbound helps your business grow better. customer support get help if you have questions about using hubspot software. partners partners hire a partner find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow. partner with us explore our sales, agency, and app partnership programs. about about company about us contact us management team board of directors careers news hubspot news press resources speakers investors investor relations get hubspot free log in marketing sales service website subscribe subscribe to our blog stay up to date with the latest marketing, sales, and service tips and news. subscribe via email subscribe on slack subscribe via email marketing sales service website email address we're committed to your privacy. hubspot uses the information you provide to us to contact you about our relevant content, products, and services. you may unsubscribe from these communications at any time. for more information, check out our privacy policy. back to other options thank you! you have been subscribed. get hubspot free service | 4 min read 40 customer service stats to know in 2020 written by swetha amaresan @swethamaresan businesses and consumers have a very different relationship than they did a few decades ago. back then, what mattered most to customers were low prices and high quality. advertisements were more product-oriented, focusing on the tangible benefits of the product and how high quality correlated with a better brand. nowadays, many advertisements are becoming consumer-oriented, focusing on the positive experiences that will result from a customer's use of the product. this is due to the increasing emphasis on customer experience. while customers still care about price and quality of products, a new factor in choosing between competing brands is the additional value of customer service. customers would rather invest more in a brand that focuses on their needs and constantly provides value beyond the initial purchase. there are many ways to make your brand more customer-focused. consider the following statistics on customer service to help you brainstorm new strategies for strengthening your customer service team. 40 customer service stats to know in 2020 the importance of high-quality customer service 1. 90% of americans use customer service as a factor in deciding whether or not to do business with a company. (american express) 2. investing in new customers is between 5 and 25 times more expensive than retaining existing ones. (invesp) 3. 49% of american consumers switched companies last year due to poor customer service. (new voice media) 4. 81% of americans believe that business are either meeting or exceeding their customer service expectations. (american express) the power of great customer service 5. 73% of customers fall in love with a brand and remain loyal because of friendly customer service reps. (rightnow) 6. 68% of customers said the service rep was key to a recent positive service experience. 62% said that this was also due in part to the rep's knowledge or resourcefulness. (american express) 7. consumers are willing to spend 17% more on a company that has outstanding customer service. (american express) 8. 77% of customers would recommend a brand to a friend after having a single positive experience. (temkin group) 9. 93% of customers are likely to make repeat purchases with companies who offer excellent customer service. (hubspot research) the cost of poor customer service 10. the #1 reason customers switch to a new brand is feeling unappreciated. (new voice media) 11. 50% of customers have left a brand for a competitor who was able to stay more relevant and better satisfy their needs. (inmoment) 12. it takes 12 positive customer experiences to make up for one negative experience. (glance) 13. 78% of customers have backed out of a purchased due to a poor customer experience. (glance) the best channels for customer service 14. 54% of customers used email for customer service last year, making it the most used digital channel for customer service. (forrester) 15. 62% of customers want to communicate with companies via email for customer service. 48% want to use the phone, 42% live chat, and 36% "contact us" forms." (hubspot research) 16. customers prefer knowledge bases over all other self-service channels. (forrester) 17. 79% of american internet users are on facebook, making it the most popular social media platform. (lyfe marketing) 18. millenials prefer live chat for customer service over every other communication channel. (comm100) the frustrations customers face 19. 33% of customers are most frustrated by having to wait on hold. 33% are most frustrated by having to repeat themselves to multiple support reps (hubspot research). 20. 50% of shoppers believe their feedback doesn't go to anyone who can actually act on it. (qualtrics) 21. 40% of customers want customer service reps to take care of their needs faster. (american express) 22. a customer is four times more likely to switch a competitor if the problem they're having is service-based. (bain and company) sharing customer service experiences 23. happy american customers will share their positive experiences with about 11 people. (american express) 24. angry american customers will share their negative experience with about 15 people. (american express) 25. 35% of american customers post negative comments about companies on social media, but 53% post positive comments. (american express). 26. 62% of customers say they share their bad experiences with others. (salesforce research) the business opportunity of customer service 27. 80% of american customers are satisfied with the customer service currently provided by their businesses (american express). 28. increasing customer retention rates by just 5% can increase profits by between 25% and 95%. (bain and company) 29. businesses can grow revenues between 4% and 8% above their market when they prioritize better customer service experiences. (bain & company) 30. 73% of companies with "above average" customer experiences perform better financially than their competitors. (temkin group) customer experience statistics 31. 70% of the customer's journey is based on how the customer feels they are being treated. (mckinsey) 32. your online conversion rate can improve by roughly 8% when you include personalized consumer experiences. (trust pilot) 33. on average, customer service agents only ask for a customer's name 21% of the time. (glance) 34. 71% of consumers (age 16 - 24) believe that a quick response from your service team can drastically improve their customer experience. (comm100) 35. on average, companies that invest in their customer experience also observe an improvement in employee engagement by roughly 20%. (mckinsey) customer satisfaction statistics 36. 90% of customers rate an "immediate" response as important or very important when they have a customer service question. 60% of customers define "immediate" as 10 minutes or less. (hubspot research) 37. 87% of consumers believe that companies need to provide a more consistent customer experience. (zendesk) 38. 35% of customers expect to be able to contact the same customer service agent through any communication channel. (zendesk) 39. 73% of consumers say that valuing their time is the most important thing a company can do when providing customer service. (forrester) 40. an nps® promoter score has a customer lifetime value that's 600% - 1400% higher than a detractor. (bain) for more reasons to invest in your customer service team, read about the importance of customer service. originally published dec 26, 2019 8:00:00 am, updated february 20 2020 topics: customer service don't forget to share this post! related articles how to adopt multilingual customer service [+real company examples] service | 6 min read how to improve your customer service and the tools that will get you there service | 8 min read what is a customer service mindset? [+ 10 ways to adopt it] service | 6 min read download for later increase your traffic ad software blog software seo software social media software content management system connect with leads find new prospects email tracking sales email templates click to call your leads email marketing close and manage leads document tracking tool meeting schedule tool sales automation tool lead management tool pipeline management tool support and tools hubspot partners join a local user group piesync integrations free tools & generators get a free website report invoice template generator email signature generator marketing plan template generator blog ideas generator make my persona business templates hubspot templates contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium english deutsch 日本語 español português français copyright © 2019 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy