skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 40 fastest loading wordpress themes for incredible page speed 2020 40 fastest loading wordpress themes for incredible page speed 2020 january 20, 2020 amit panishap theme collections 209 comments looking for the fastest wordpress theme? you are in the right place because we have collected and benchmarked many wordpress themes to suggest you the best and the fastest themes available. when choosing a wordpress theme for any current/ upcoming wordpress website, there are many aspects that the user looks for. one common and most important aspect is speed. nobody likes slow loading websites. a website that loads slow and performs slow leads to poor user experience. visitors may not be willing to visit your website again simply because it takes too much time to load. this week, we went ahead and tested over 500 wordpress themes to determine which one is the fastest loading without compromising on features. we excluded minimal themes that did not feature-rich and tested only those which have the most commonly used features. our tests were mainly conducted using 2 tools available online. a) google pagespeed insights page speed insights measures the performance of a page for mobile devices and desktop devices. it fetches the url twice, once with a mobile user-agent, and once with a desktop-user agent. the pagespeed score ranges from 0 to 100 points. a higher score is better and a score of 85 or above indicates that the page is performing well. b) pingdom tools full page test pingdom tools full page test is an easy-to-use web-based tool that examines all parts of a web page including file sizes, load times, html, javascript, css and other files linked to the web page. scoring is done on a scale of 0 to 100 points, the higher the better. to find out more how plugins and themes affect wordpress and website performance make sure to check this article. update (1): while these themes are great and will help you to achieve high google’s pagespeed score they are enough to make our website fast. you can do as many optimizations as you want for your website but if your hosting sucks then other optimizations and worthless. for more information on which wordpress hosting is the best, you can read this detailed guide. based on the combined average scores, we have shortlisted the fastest wordpress themes down below (in no particular order): jevelin google pagespeed insights score: 86 pingdom tools score: 87 jevelin is an amazing and responsive wordpress premium multipurpose website theme. this theme has been crafted by a team of designers and developers working in unison to furnish webmasters with eloquent and colorful websites. jevelin has been packed with incredible graphical customization capabilities for you to quickly and effortlessly produce unique websites that match your visual and branding specifications impeccably. each page within your website is its own domain of possibilities, with multiple page customization options available for you to experiment with, as well as readily available graphical customization at the specific element level, such as over 40 custom animations you can choose from for every widget, button or icon in your website. gorgeous, visually stunning video background sections make your website lively and appealing, keeping your audience engaged and interested, while seamless and smooth parallax background sections make your content dazzling and captivating while being completely hardware-powered and lightweight, minimizing your server loads while looking dashing and splendid. with jevelin, you can finally build the websites you have been dreaming of. try jevelin now! more info / download demo gillion (trending item) gillion is a new and classy magazine and blog wordpress theme. it comes with many awesome built-in customizations and 7 pre-built demos. it uses an enhanced admin panel that simplifies coding to the point of disappearing it. gillion has an awesome live customizer that lets you manipulate things and look as you do so. it also uses wpbakery page builder and it is compatible with bootstrap. additionally, you will find 4 sets of headers, 12 custom widgets and a beautiful top bar. moreover, gillion has a flexible layout that allows 6 posts formats and has pre-built blog designs. get this well-documented theme in your hands quickly and you will not regret it! get gillion! more info / download demo soledad soledad is a super lightweight responsive wordpress multiconcept blog and magazine website theme. it’s a deliberately developed theme, constructed specifically as an all-encompassing solution for webmasters looking to establish an online magazine or blog website that is both modern and light. with plentiful styling and visual choices at your disposal that alter the essential behavior of your soledad website without you ever having to write a single line of code yourself. owing to soledad’s powerful wordpress live customizer, expanded and enhanced with over 250 custom options you can fiddle with, and added to over 100 blog and slider combinations and over 250 conceptually unique homepage demo websites, included for your convenience. every aspect of soledad has been completely optimized for speed, making soledad websites particularly easy on the server loads, spectacularly fast loading and very friendly to users with slower connections common across regions of the world. soledad makes sure no one is left out in the rain of slow-loading websites. don’t waste more time, get your soledad website today! more info / download demo cheerup cheerup is a clean and responsive wordpress blog and magazine website theme. this theme is an intuitive platform for articulating handsome modern blogs. webmasters across the board find in cheerup a partner to count on. whether you’re building sleek magazines or functional blogs, cheerup has everything you need. six demo websites combine with 200 layout variations for the utmost design flexibility. also, you can put together ready-to-use magazines with effective, modern tools in minutes. handy widgets, trending posts and latest news are all a couple clicks away. moreover, cheerup is well-suited for audiences of all scales and sizes. unique header, footer and slider styles let you express yourself. custom post styles are perfect for every niche and market. with hundreds of powerful admin options you can fine-tune your website with ease. incorporating functional stores to your cheerup blog is effortless too. with the woocommerce plugin you can set up shop online overnight. strategic social media placement lets your content go viral everywhere with ease. furthermore, your audience can like, share and save your posts across a multitude of networks. an optimized code lets cheerup load fast under any traffic conditions. deploy cheerup upon your blog today, and see your blog breathe new air overnight! more info / download demo divi google pagespeed insights score: 87 pingdom tools score: 82 divi is the most powerful theme ever built by elegantthemes. the developers added 18 pre-made completely customizable layouts for you to start with. divi also includes divi builder which lets you create unique layouts quickly without editing the code. the best feature of the divi theme is that your website will be fully responsive no matter how you choose to create it with divi builder, with lots of pre-made modules like call to action, sliders, pricing tables, blurbs, contact forms, sidebars – divi will change the way you create your website. divi includes different header styles, unlimited colors and blog/ portfolio options. think of a feature, and it’s there. if you are not convinced yet, make sure to read our full divi theme review. more info / download demo magplus magplus is a speedy and modern responsive wordpress blog and magazine website theme. this theme is a sharp framework for creating efficient, professional websites. no matter your market or niche, magplus lets you reach your audience better. a one click installation grants you access to over 40 demo websites. endless layouts and dozens of templates do the heavy lifting for you. deploy 150 custom elements to add functionality and aesthetics anywhere. dozens of article, header and slider layouts offer an unparalleled depth of customization. magplus is one of the fastest-loading themes on the market today. advanced loading techniques and smart coding keep server loads low. your audience will love the lightning-fast responsiveness of your magplus website. exclusive widgets let you include all kinds of premium features on any page. with magplus at your side, you can take your project to the next level! more info / download demo newspaper are you dreaming of a website that scores the best page loading speed? look no further than newspaper theme by tagdiv. with delightful and modern lines, newspaper is the most popular wordpress theme for blogs, news, and professional magazine websites of all types. this template has a range of pro demos, which are faster and lighter for you to use on your site. in the latest newspaper theme version 10, even the default demo is now pro which means it gets a really high score on page speed loading tests. powered by a frontend, custom-tailored page builder, hundreds of pre-made designs for articles and pages, a header builder, flexible blocks, advanced settings for every shortcode, newspaper is definitely an excellent wordpress theme. spice up your website by easily adding your quality content, displaying favorite social id’s, using infinite loading on articles, and embed videos from youtube or vimeo. newspaper is an amp and mobile-friendly theme that uses best seo practices. try now the ultimate newspaper theme speed! more info / download demo webify webify is a carefully optimized and fast loading wordpress theme with multiple predesigned concepts. in the kit you will find twenty different demos for businesses, blogs, portfolios, online shops and other creative ventures. webify ensures a speedy launch of a novel website that will surely turn heads. besides, the whole editing and customization happen through dragging and dropping, which makes webify very newbie-friendly. in other words, you need to have zero experience with building pages and still create a spectacular one with webify. not only does webify have numerous home page designs, but it also comes with ready-to-use internal layouts, headers, footers and countless shortcodes. install the demo of choice with a single click and you can already start turning it into a functional site, presenting your business online like a champ. more info / download demo goodlife goodlife is a customizable wordpress theme, constructed with painstaking care and the utmost attention to detail by a dedicated team of professional developers in order to craft the most amazing websites in the magazine archetype. theme comes with the most advanced and polished features integrated right out of the box for optimized content legibility and readability, deft and dexterous handling of all media formats across tons of post styles and types and many smoothly animated, interactive and immersive capabilities to make your audience feel right at home from day one. goodlife has been coded on a powerful html5 framework styled through dynamic css3 scripting and orchestrated around a modular bootstrap design, making goodlife websites inherently mobile-friendly, superbly responsive and impressively fast-loading, so that your websites are easy on the servers and lightning-fast. try goodlife today if you want a streamlined and easygoing solution for all your online magazine website needs. more info / download demo thegem it is no secret that thegem is a super-fast loading wordpress theme. with that in mind, thegem guarantees a first-class performance which will keep your users around for longer. have in mind, thegem is a multi-purpose solution for all sorts of websites. businesses, online stores, blogs, portfolios, agencies, thegem covers them all and then some. have in mind, there is a whopping collection of four hundred templates at your disposal, all modern, creative and easy to use. to speed things up, all you need to do is to use the available layouts and components and have a page up in a small breeze. of course, you can modify and edit each layout precisely without the need to write a single string of code. thanks to wpbakery drag and drop builder, anyone can use thegem to its full potential without a sweat. thegem also comes with all the necessary documentation, video tutorials, and support. on your journey to a successful website, the operation will never feel lonely with thegem. more info / download demo seo wp google pagespeed insights score: 87 pingdom tools score: 94 seo wp theme is a modern and fast loading theme carefully crafted for digital marketing agencies, seo companies and their clients. it includes features and options that will empower both novice and professional developer in website development. this theme is fully responsive and lets you control any element presentation on any device. every aspect of this theme looks crisp, sharp and pixel-perfect because seo wp theme is retina ready and comes with scalable vector graphics file format support. it comes with full width and boxed page layouts with advanced background options. additionally, it offers unlimited header styles, different footer layouts via drag & drop footer builder, infinite color options, advanced typography settings, 20+ custom widgets, unlimited sidebars and many more. seo wp is powered by live composer, a powerful drag & drop page builder. it lets you construct and edit custom pages with unlimited layout combinations, with instant view on every single alteration you make. it comes with an amazing mega menu plugin that allows you to create responsive dropdown menus that will surely increase user engagement and improve user experience. the theme also includes an off-canvas mobile menu so site visitors using handheld devices could also have an excellent user experience. seo wp makes the most of the wordpress theme customizer. you can use this live theme customizer to alter and monitor the changes you made in your theme. it’s comprehensively intuitive and lightning fast. this theme also includes other premium wordpress theme plugins such as master slider, easy social share buttons for wordpress, nex-forms, rankie, simplified google maps (sgm), fresh favicon and wordpress menus management. this seo theme is fully optimized for speed and yields high scores in gtmetrix and pingdom tests. more info / download demo newsmag google pagespeed insights score: 89 pingdom tools score: 93 newsmag is a clean and polished wordpress theme powered by wordpress booster framework. the developers designed it so you can easily write and publish your articles and blog posts on your newspaper or magazine site. this theme can greatly emphasize your content with its spotless and crisp design. it comes available with six unique and easy to install stacks. this theme is also bundled with visual composer which allows you to create unlimited pages without difficulty. you can also mix and match the 20 content blocks and the 3 page templates and craft a fine page layout for your website. newsmag comes with 22 custom widgets, 17 widgets for content and 5 are for general ui. the custom content widgets display posts in different styles and support custom colors, advanced filters, ajax pagination, ajax filtering and infinite load. newsmag also includes a user-friendly admin panel that lets you change certain elements of your theme. it has a unique article system that ensures that a particular article will not appear twice on your homepage. it’s fully integrated with tinymce wysiwyg, a wordpress editor that gives you a preview of the alterations you have made in your theme. it has an ios slider to showcase your content in a fashionable way. you can present the gallery in different aspect ratio and gives you the capability to add information to each image you display. news also includes other valuable theme features such as custom made lightbox, powerful shortcodes, live search with ajax, smart sidebar, youtube/ vimeo video playlist, sticky menu, intelligent ad system, social counter and many more. this theme also provides support for woocommerce, typekit, google fonts, font stacks and woff font files. more info / download demo jannah jannah is an up to date wordpress theme. it has over 20 pre-made demos to choose. and each of one of them is a very functional website with pages, menus structures, and demo content. all designed to make your work easier. jannah has two big strengths: speed and flexibility. your content is mobile-optimized, loading fast everywhere. accelerate mobile pages (amp) project makes possible. jannah is optimized with full support by the yoast plugin and seo support. so, find fast your website is not an issue. besides, it can pick up ranking signals from specific html elements. jannah has increased the speed with several advanced developments behind the scenes. they give you truly blazing page load speeds. and, the website performance has, in general, a page speed score of 98%. also use lazy load: your images load when the user requires it. it’s responsive and retina ready, for the best experience in any user’s device. jump-to-contents is another feature that enriches jannah. users can also jump-to specific point in long-form. customize your layouts, change fonts, skins or colors. select your demo and use the one-click demo import feature. get your design setup, customize and launch your site. fast and simple. get jannah! more info / download demo onfleek onfleek is a responsive wordpress amp magazine website theme. this theme is a fresh-faced and entirely modern solution for webmasters to effortlessly craft the most amazing, polished and professional online magazines on the market today, in a matter of minutes. onfleek is also packaged with a series of professionally graphically designed template pages and whole demo websites for you to get started off on the right foot. it quickly customizes your website’s look and feel to suit your specs with the premium visual composer, slider revolution, and advanced theme admin settings. they work in unison to essentially turn your website inside out at your leisure, from fonts to animations and much more. onfleek is also perfect for online fashion magazines, as its modern, stylish feel combines fantastically with its cutting edge social media integration, extensively featured throughout this youthful, vibrant, and connected theme. plentiful customized sharing buttons and social media feed widgets are available within onfleek, allowing your users to stay up to date on the latest trending topics across all your social media outlets. impressive amp tech makes mobile friendliness unmatched for this powerful, slender theme. try onfleek today! more info / download demo pofo pofo is an elegant and inspiring wordpress theme created for many business purposes. agencies, creative teams, photographers, artists, and corporate businesses find their element to shine. it was created with attention to details for artists’ refined taste. pofo aims to satisfy those who want a handcraft sensation of their page building process. 150+ elements, over 200 pre-built templates, 25+ niche demos, all available for your site. play around with post formats, short-codes, widgets and more. even typography and color options are unlimited and customizable. the relationship with your potential customers is also guaranteed. seo optimization, responsiveness, and social sharing integration have got your back. pofo is also woocommerce ready: start your online shop with beautiful and minimal designs. moreover, retina ready quality will make graphics ideal for products or portfolio showcase. one-click import setup, detailed documentation, great support and lifetime updates. what else do you need? go for pofo! more info / download demo hongo hongo is a fast loading wordpress theme that suits numerous ecommerce businesses. if you are diving in or redesigning your existing web presence, let hongo take care of it. with a multi-concept approach, you can use one tool for establishing various online stores. from apparel, watch and gadget to leather, lingerie and shoe stores, you can make them all with hongo and then some. keep in mind, hongo is entirely editable and adjustable, offering you to tailor it to your wants precisely. this remarkable online store building tool also comes with heaps of features and elements that will get the traction going right away. nifty filters, product quick view, mega menu, blog pages, predefined headers and catalog mode are just some of the extras that hongo treats you to. to sum up, hongo does all the heavy lifting for you, so enjoy the smooth sail and start something fresh comfortably. more info / download demo h-code h-code is a flexible and versatile, graphically polished and very professional, tech-savvy and wonderfully responsive wordpress single page and multipage multipurpose website theme. it’s a stylish and functional website building toolkit, a sophisticated set of potent plugins, plentiful templates and demo websites and impressively thoughtful configuration options and styles. h-code is packed with over 58 unique demo websites as well as 197 template pages that cover pretty much any possible need you may have while building a modern website. h-code’s deft handling of beautiful visual content through 40 different portfolio page templates that truly showcase your high-resolution imagery in the most amazing presentation possible. h-code also includes 16 different layouts for your blog pages, each with a slew of customizable elements and options to present your readers with your textual and visual content in whichever fashion best fits your magazine’s tone and style. the revolution slider brings your pages alive with engaging slideshows of your featured posts, latest images or a number of other selections for you to engage and amaze your viewers while bringing more exposure to your content. moreover, h-code is incredibly lightweight and amazingly responsive, making for a powerfully cross-compatible theme that quickly adapts itself to all screen sizes and devices. try h-code now! more info / download demo brando brando has been crafted by a dedicated team of developers and designers working in conjunction to produce a perfect platform for the creation of impressive, state of the art websites across a broad spectrum of interesting and diverse topics and subject matters with utter ease and without ever having to write a single line of code. moreover, brando has been developed using the latest and greatest web technologies on the market today, ensuring its top-notch performance under all usage cases and a vertiginously speedy loading that is easy on the servers even under heavy traffic, as well as appreciated by visitors on their mobile platforms for going lightly on data without compromising visual quality and polished finish. while multiple provided page templates and demo websites make it incredibly easy to set up your websites in a flash, advanced html5 powers your video and general multimedia management capabilities, meanwhile, innovative css3 styling creates all sorts of imaginative styling and transition animation choices you can play around with. the tool’s bootstrap modular design makes it natively cross-compatible and perfectly mobile-friendly to boot. try brando today! more info / download demo brixton brixton is a resourceful and rapid, full-featured and flexible, easy to use and engaging, highly responsive wordpress creative modern blog website theme. additionally, this theme is a full package solution for webmasters who need to set up creative, imaginative websites spanning a range of applications and purposes, from personal blogs to online magazine websites and many more uses. with brixton, all the coding, the hassle and the hard work is taken out of the equation and handled by brixton’s deft page-building tools, layout customization resources and advanced theme options, leaving you free to take care of what matters the most, your precious content. with brixton, you get access to a wealth of premium plugins for no additional charge, including the amazing revolution slider, which brings your pages to life with engaging animated slideshows with tons of options for you to fiddle with. also, brixton is quite hip and fashionable, and youthful webmasters love the way in which brixton’s many page templates and homepage demos incorporate a seamless design philosophy and a minimalist, sober aesthetic into each element and page within this gorgeous, functional theme. mobile-friendly and responsive, brixton is all you need to succeed! try brixton today! more info / download demo zoa in the modern era, we live in, a website should be not only mobile-ready but optimized for fast loading as well. you also need to offer your guests and potential customers the best possible experience that will make them want to return on a regular. zoa is the fast loading wordpress theme that offers you to attain stupendous results with your online store. with its multiple and minimal looking home page demos, building an enviable ecommerce website becomes as easy as pie. zoa is also a regularly updated theme that keeps your online business page fresh and modern. on top of that, zoa also delivers fresh demo material that you can use however you see it suit your needs best. if clean and minimal look is your cup of tea, zoa is the tool that will do the trick for you. more info / download demo sassico sassico is an all-around and flexible solution for startups and other tech projects. this fast loading wordpress theme sorts you out with tons of ready-made one- and multi-page demos. every layout features a creative and minimal design that easily caters to different tastes. what’s more, sassico also contains elementor drag and drop page builder, giving you a chance to modify and tweak the default look of sassico according to your branding precisely. twelve headers, five footers, mega menu, over forty addons, more than two hundred blocks and slider revolution are all the different amenities of sassico. it also includes excellent documentation and fast and reliable support. last but not least, sassico comes with frequent updates, too, making sure your website operates flawlessly for years to come. look no further and take charge now. more info / download demo pinkmart regardless of the website, it is a must that you deliver the best possible performance. with pinkmart, everyone will enjoy browsing through your amazing products, completing purchases on all devices and browsing platforms flawlessly. pinkmart is a fast loading wordpress theme that offers a whole bunch of page layouts and features for you to take to your total advantage. in the pinkmart bundle, you will find an array of demos that primarily focus on beauty, fashion and accessories. for your information, due to the flexible structure, you can easily go entirely against the grain with pinkmart. the tool is coupled with the elementor and wpbakery drag and drop page builders, which offer you complete creative freedom. a ton of headers and footers, beautiful product pages, sticky bottom navigation bar and cookie law pop-up are all included in the kit. the layout is fluid, so it reshapes to every device instantaneously. start pushing products online with pinkmart now. more info / download demo odry photographers and other creatives who are looking to build a high-performing online portfolio, let odry do the trick. odry is optimized for fast loading speed, guaranteeing a killer experience on all devices, from handheld and up to desktop. of course, the design is mobile-friendly and seo-ready, too. note that this is just a tiny segment of all the spectacular features and amenities that odry has available for all its users. first and foremost, odry contains a horde of home and inner pages, gallery and portfolio layouts, as well as online store and blog sections. it features off-canvas menu, elementor page builder, one click installation, sliders and a back to top button. for establishing a memorable first impression, go with odry and build a portfolio that will escalate your creative venture. more info / download demo citta if new ideas keep on popping up on a regular basis and you do not want to continue searching for new themes, consider citta. it is a contemporary, multi-purpose and fast loading wordpress theme with a wide collection of demos, ui blocks and elements. speaking of which, citta rocks 25 demos, over 150 ready-made blocks and more than 35 elements and components, as well as 250 unique theme features and powerful customization options. from startups, finance and banking to digital agencies, blogs and online stores, citta takes care of them all and then some. sell items with woocommerce, push your works with online portfolio layouts and create an outstandingly navigable page with different header and menu styles. citta also includes a selection of premium plugins for free, making sure you get the most out of it without hassle. more info / download demo paperio paperio is a fast-loading and responsive wordpress multipurpose blog website theme. the theme is also a sleek blog theme, perfect for a multitude of applications. corporations and businesses love making a statement with paperio. and personal or professional bloggers find in paperio an answer to their prayers. moreover, you don’t need to write a line of code to get the most out of paperio. 7 unique homepage demos are ideal for setting up shop fast and easy. furthermore, custom headers and footers keep your pages well-structured and interesting. powerful seo enhancements also increase your traffic overnight. once the users come through the door, greet them with fast-loading wonders. additionally, paperio is optimized for loading fast in all traffic cases. with the advanced srcset setting you can deploy smart image loading. that lets your users load your content faster without losing quality. buttons and menus in paperio are reactive and crisp. sophisticated ajax technology powers many of paperio’s awesome features. trending articles, latest posts and featured sliders are a few clicks away. lastly, grid and masonry layouts are easy to fine-tune to your heart’s content. check out paperio today, and speed your game up a notch! more info / download demo braxton – premium wordpress magazine theme google pagespeed insights score: 91 pingdom tools score: 93 braxton wordpress magazine theme has been awarded as the *top 10 best paid wordpress themes in 2013 by forbes*. it has been regularly updated since the day it was launched on 17th october, 2013. also, it is a 2-column magazine theme compatible with woocommerce and bbpress. furthermore, this retina ready theme features a responsive layout, 4 different ad units, featured slider on each category page. more info / download demo taskerr google pagespeed insights score: 90 pingdom tools score: 92 if you run are running a wordpress marketplace website or planning to launch a similar service where people can post their requests and others fulfill them, and while they do so – you profit on each and every transaction. it is a perfect marketplace theme to start monetizing your website. if you’ve been to marketplaces which provide logo design services, website design and re-design services, branding and identity design services, and you’re also willing to start a similar website, then this should be your theme of choice as this theme allows you to implement flexible and powerful pricing plans, you can generate income by charging each seller a fixed price for listing their services or take a percentage of every transaction. more info / download demo urus if your website does not load fast, it can result in poor user experience and even affect search engine optimization. well, if you came here, you need not worry about bad site performance. all these wordpress themes are fast loading, ensuring a striking experience regardless of the device your users use. speaking of which, urus is an excellent tool that gives you the opportunity to craft almost any kind of ecommerce website your heart desires. after all, it is a multi-purpose theme with over thirty predefined demos. yes, that is 30! urus guarantees a complete package of features and functions of a successful online shop. tons of widgets, social sharing, fourteen custom shortcodes, revolution slider, multi-currency support, product quick view, wishlist, you get the gist of it. start selling products with urus and comfortably manage and maintain an online shop like an expert from the get-go. more info / download demo debutant debutant is a fast loading wordpress theme predominantly for agencies, startups, and freelancers. if you would like to advertise your works online, make it happen with debutant and differentiate yourself from the masses. read carefully, in the debutant bundle, you will discover a whopping collection of forty and counting predefined demos. no matter how picky you are, debutant sure has something for you. on top of that, all the layouts are also entirely customizable and adjustable, catering to your wants flawlessly. due to elementor page builder, debutant ensures a codeless experience. very beginner-friendly if you will. additionally, make custom footers and headers, too, with the convenient builder. you can also start a blog and expand your website with an ecommerce section. there indeed are unlimited opportunities when it comes to the superb debutant. more info / download demo blogxer blogs and online magazines should load fast and they will with blogxer. this fast loading wordpress theme is a spectacular resource of twelve dope homes and additional fifteen inner pages. the coding is done visually via elementor website builder, making sure even utter beginners get the most out of blogxer. along with speed optimization, blogxer is also mobile-ready, retina-friendly, cross-browser compatible and practices the latest seo regulations. all preset and ready to go! moreover, blogxer comes with eight headers, five footers, fifteen hours real-time support, twenty custom elementor addons, lazy load and unlimited colors. with a strong emphasis on your content, everyone will enjoy skimming through your website and reading all the compelling content you have to offer. by the way, it does not really matter whether you would like to create a niche or general blog or news page, with blogxer, you can make them all and then some. more info / download demo schema google pagespeed insights score: 93 pingdom tools score: 95 schema is the fastest loading seo friendly wordpress theme till date from mythemeshop. it features custom options panel, shortcodes, widgets, and a pixel perfect design, schema also includes rich snippets in order to help search engines your site and rank you higher. schema is 100% responsive, it has built in ad management and review system. additionally, it supports custom css and has a secure and lightweight code. being translation ready means you can use it in any language by just adding a translation file. it also comes with 3 different layouts for related posts, ready-to-use icon fonts, google fonts and social media sharing functionality. on top of that, you get excellent support from their support forum. more info / download demo genesis framework google pagespeed insights score: 68 pingdom tools score: 92 genesis framework is one of the most popular frameworks available today to the wordpress community. developed by studiopress with security in mind, genesis framework is suitable for every level of wordpress websites. whether you’re new to genesis framework or an advanced developer, with its search engine optimized foundation, you can take your website to the new level. also, genesis framework is the choice of most of the people as it does not compromise on features. it includes 1/2/3 column layouts, left/ right sidebar, custom backgrounds, custom header, and custom menu. moreover, it has a beautiful mobile responsive design and blazing fast performance. more info / download demo apptheme google pagespeed insights score: 92 pingdom tools score: 71 if you’re an app designer or you showcase the portfolio on your website, then this theme will fit your needs as apptheme is a portfolio theme built to help you showcase your work. with ability to showcase a single app, a portfolio of projects, services and testimonials, apptheme is highly customizable. it is also fully responsive, highly customizable – with unlimited color schemes, unlimited backgrounds, 600+ google fonts, parallax scrolling effects and more. in addition, it’s translation ready. it has an ability to showcase a demo video on front page, customer reviews, app screenshots and features a unique blog layout as well. more info / download demo best google pagespeed insights score: 92 pingdom tools score: 91 best is yet another wonderful wordpress theme from mythemeshop. best is a responsive wordpress theme that features fully fluid responsive design, it loads incredibly fast, it is highly customizable and search engines friendly. it also includes a great review system and megamenu! best also features advertising and the developers optimized it for advertisers. other theme features include google adsense optimization, google web fonts, fast loading ajax, seo-friendly rich snippets, retina ready icons, unlimited colors, backgrounds and sidebars. other features include support for child theme, ajax powered search, touch-enabled slider, breadcrumbs, author box and tested on all the leading browsers. demo content is part of the theme deal as well. more info / download demo rosa google pagespeed insights score: 87 pingdom tools score: 96 rosa is an incredibly fast loading restaurant wordpress theme that features high-performance parallax scrolling (60 fps), opentable reservations, beautifully designed meals menu and more. you just need your opentable restaurant id and you can implement the reservation system online! it features a live customizer that lets you change the fonts, colors, and layout and preview the changes before saving them. it is also seo-friendly, translation ready and features shortcodes and google fonts. on top of that, you can get all the included psds in download. more info / download demo pinthis google pagespeed insights score: 84 pingdom tools score: 93 pinthis is a beautiful and fast loading wordpress theme that features a pinterest style design. it’s a masonry based theme that features a clean design in a beautiful flat style. you can use this theme to make your website appearance pinterest inspired. it’s also the perfect theme for portfolios, designers, photographers and creative individuals. additionally. it features responsive slider, responsive layout, 4 pre-defined lovely color skins, rtl support and you can even add your google adsense ads. moreover, it supports custom post formats, custom 404 page, contact form 7 styling options, custom widgets and powerful admin panel. more info / download demo x – the theme google pagespeed insights score: 78 pingdom tools score: 96 x wordpress theme brags multiple unique designs inside one theme with no additional setup requirement. each and every area of the x theme is editable from within the wordpress theme customizer including website layout, navigation, headings, button style, shapes, header position, logo, background color, content layout (content + sidebar, sidebar + content, full width), top bar, footer, contact information, favicons, social presence for facebook, twitter, linkedin, youtube, instagram, pinterest, dribbble, and more. you can even input custom css, custom javascript and manage all of your widgets right from the theme customizer itself. x wordpress theme is also fully responsive, includes google web fonts, shortcodes, bbpress, buddypress, slider revolution, font awesome icons and rtl support. with all of these features and more, themeco says this is the last wordpress theme you will have to buy! more info / download demo diamond google pagespeed insights score: 85 pingdom tools score: 94 diamond is an awesome multi-purpose woocommerce and directory wordpress theme for small business owners which includes multiple home page layouts. this theme utilizes the powerful and advanced zoom framework and features a directory module and parallax slider. diamond also features the 3-column layout and easy to use theme options panel. if you’re looking for an ecommerce or business theme which does not compromise of performance, then this should be your theme of choice. more info / download demo stockholm google pagespeed insights score: 86 pingdom tools score: 89 stockholm is a minimalistic and multi-concept theme that you can use for any types of blogs or website. the developers built it with swedish design and gave attention to details. white spaces and stunning fonts are the primary assets of stockholm. stockholm also comes with a masonry layout that gives your website a pinterest or sophisticated metro look. moreover, it comes available with 20 unique and easy to install demos. if you can’t still find the perfect page layout, you can mix and match all demos to get the layout design that suits your web design requirements. furthermore, this theme comes with 6 header styles, bunch of font options, 2 icon sets to choose from and other styling options that enable you to set your brand apart from your competitors. this theme also has a very intuitive admin panel that will give you a full control of your website design. build as many page layouts as you want using the visual composer. this drags and drop functionality makes building and arranging the pages or modules in your theme a child’s play. you can choose between exclusive select slider and layer slider if you want to add splendid slides in your pages or posts. this theme also features a fully responsive video slider that you can use for boosting the user engagement in your website. they also included animated page transitions in this theme for added visual effects. if ostentatious page animations are not your cup of tea, you also have an option to turn them off. they fully integrated stockholm with the woocommerce theme to help you easily set up an online store and sell products online. it also offers multi-language support and fully optimized for seo. more info / download demo newsmag pro newsmag pro is a clean and fresh-faced, robust and reliable, intuitive and easy to use, creative and highly responsive wordpress premium multipurpose magazine website theme. it’s the latest and greatest multipurpose magazine theme on the market, a fresh combination of the most powerful and remarkable modern online magazine features and technologies dressed to impress with a deeply customizable set of advanced styling capabilities, choices and technologies at your disposal, without having to so much as write a single line of code yourself. mobile-friendly to the core and inherently cross-compatible, newsmag pro renders flawlessly on devices and browsers spanning the whole planet, adapting your website to every screen. with limitless customizable sliders and carousels, newsmag pro ensures your pages stay dynamic and interesting to your audience while showcasing your featured or most recent content to a broad audience at the same time. extensively seo enhanced, newsmag pro is a top-notch search engine performer, guaranteeing increased traffic overnight, while extensive documentation included makes sure you always make the most of every feature within this potent new magazine theme. woocommerce ready out of the box, newsmag pro is a capable online salesman to boot. give newsmag pro a go today, and check it out! more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. adsensefast loadingfastestflat designmagazinenews themeperformanceseowebsite speed share this share tweet pin it share amit panishap front-end ui designer and writer related posts best wordpress themes for artists and craftsmen do you create and sell handmade products? give your business a competitive advantage with the… 30 responsive real estate wordpress themes for agencies, realtors, property listings & directories 2020 the most comprehensive collection of best real estate wordpress themes you will ever need to… 19 best elementary school wordpress themes 2020 education is a passport and a good key for a brighter future. without knowledge, you… 20 impressive mobile-first wordpress themes for any type of topic-specific project looking for the best mobile-first wordpress themes? i bet the following selection of ready-made designs will come to your liking. champion football and soccer wordpress themes 2020 panning and building a sports website that attracts millions of fans can be a pain… 20 charity & donation wordpress themes 2019 there are hundreds of useful tools that can help you build a charity and donation… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 21 best wordpress themes for dance studios 2020 next post: 19 best wedding photography wordpress themes you must see 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×