skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 40+ responsive wordpress music themes for musicians, djs, bands and solo artists 2020 40+ responsive wordpress music themes for musicians, djs, bands and solo artists 2020 january 14, 2020 aigars theme collections 34 comments the only resource you will ever need to choose the best wordpress music theme for your band, solo career, nightclub, record label, magazine, and other music-related ventures. music plays an important role in our life. it has the ability to play around with our emotions, and thanks to online streaming services, you can finally listen to any song on any device, anywhere. this is the easiest part about the music these days, but if you are an artist, on a band, nightclub or record label, you come to a position where you need to have your own website to spread the word. many decide to create a facebook page and/or a soundcloud profile and hope that they will be noticed. it might be enough for some, but if you are looking to boost your credibility, you must have your own website. there are plenty of great platforms that helps non-programmers setup professional websites, and wordpress is by far the most popular one. wordpress powers over 300 million of the websites worldwide, which account for over 34% of the entire web. thanks to its incredible community, this open-source tool only gets better and better. there are millions of plugins and themes available for wordpress and hundreds more are added each day. there are thousands of wordpress themes available but most of them are not very useful and many are outdated and are not actively maintained. i decided to create this list of the best music wordpress themes that are actively maintained and supported. let’s have a look at the best music wordpress themes you can start using today. divi just like web development, making music is both an art form and a science. if your goal is to create a functional and aesthetically-pleasing music website, be sure to check out divi. this theme seamlessly blends fun with business, making it easier for novice users to craft successful pages. divi’s flexibility is astonishing, and it can be used for almost any business niche or activity. it incorporates a large roster of modern, practical features, and a design that never fails to impress potential customers and fans. what makes this theme unique is how it approaches website customization. all of its site elements are divided into simple modules. every module can be moved around with ease, simplifying the personification process. there are countless settings which can be tweaked and altered, giving you access to a series of variable fonts, colors, footers, headers, and so on. basically, you will be able to design a site that perfectly matches your vision, without having to worry about the most troublesome coding issues. for those who want examples of what divi can achieve, several pre-made designs are available on the theme’s website. in addition, the live preview allows clients to sample this product without having to spend any money. more info / download demo jevelin due to the fact that jevelin is a multi-functional wordpress theme, we can safely call it a music theme as well. you can seamlessly adjust and improve the theme and turn it into a music page for bands, artists and other projects. as a musician, you might not have much knowledge regarding web development and design. do not let this stop you! jevelin is the type of wordpress theme that anyone can use without the need to touch a single string of code. without a doubt, the end product you are about to bring to reality with jevelin will be a striking web design all your fans will be blown away by. get them intrigued, offer them to get familiar with who you are as a band and invite them to your upcoming gigs. more info / download demo uncode – wordpress music theme uncode is a clever and well-designed music wordpress theme. it’s a colorful and beautiful music website building platform that is easy to set up and use. with uncode, a uniquely enhanced version of the famed visual composer plugin has been included to streamline and simplify all tasks related to editing layouts and crafting whole pages whether from scratch or working off one of our elegant and tasteful homepage demo concepts, totaling in at over 50 and counting. this makes uncode a favorite among musicians, artists and bands, not to mention its impressive portfolio and blog options to properly introduce the world to your musical content. try uncode now! more info / download demo slide – music wordpress theme slide is a modern and trendy music wordpress theme built with creativity in mind. before we continue, no, you do not need to have any coding skills to use and build with slide. in the package, you get wpbakery page builder and revolution slider which are powerful but simple-to-use tools to create the most advanced sites for your musical projects. artists, bands, musicians and anyone else who rocks the music industry, slide is an ideal theme to sort out your web presence. four remarkable demos are at your disposal out of the box. now, you can use the one you fancy most as-is or improve it to meet your needs to the very last detail. slide also comes with a flexible music player, two event layouts and even individual looks for discographies. moreover, start capturing your fans’ emails upon your website launch using slide’s integrated mailchimp subscription form. begin pushing your tunes and grow your fanbase with slide. more info / download demo webify if you have a music project that needs that extra shine, make a website with webify and take it to the next level. as effortless as that! first, you do not need to have any prior experience with web development; webify will never ask you for any coding or design knowledge. and second, webify rocks nifty predefined layouts and a horde of additional components which you can take to your full advantage easily. last but not least, you can also modify all the custom-made material and tweak them with your signature touch. there are many more outstanding features of webify that will do you well. from predefined header and footer styles and over 200 shortcodes to testimonials, instagram feed, call-to-action buttons, footer reveal and sponsors section, webify rocks it all and more. the layout is, of course, compatible with mobile devices and web browsers, too. it is also lightweight and fast loading. more info / download demo bridge when you are looking for a music wordpress theme, you can easily go with bridge and see things happen right in front of your eyes. i am speaking about establishing the neatest and most stunning music page whether for your band, your client, or even for an online music magazine. regardless, bridge is here for you to do things the right way. with the countless demos and an array of assets, bridge is a theme behemoth, if you will. what’s also cool about the tool is the fact that you can create three or more entirely different music websites without anyone knowing you used the same base. yes, bridge is that remarkable! more info / download demo ekko even if you just take a quick peek at ekko, you already know that this is the website canvas that goes over and beyond with its features and layouts. and of course, you can also employ it as a music wordpress theme. the limits truly are none when it comes to ekko. in fact, it is your imagination that is the only limitation you have when working with ekko. music artist, bands, djs, well, anyone in the music space, you are all more than welcome to use ekko and shine online. promote your tunes by creating a playlist and even push your latest official music videos or live clips. ekko starts the adventure with a full-screen banner which will help you capture their attention in an instant. also, you can advertise your upcoming gigs, sell albums and merch, showcase recent tour gallery and even start a blog. ekko is powerful enough to offer you to create the exact music page your heart desires. more info / download demo massive dynamic massive dynamic is an innovative and unique wordpress music website builder. massive dynamic is built around the amazing live website builder giving you creative control over the look, feel and behavior of your website, all in real time. massive dynamic’s seamless and deft handling of multimedia content such as audio files and links, html5 video and much more, along with its integrated, ready-made online shop capabilities powered by woocommerce, awesome pricing plans powered by go pricing and perfect newsletters via mailchimp make it a prime candidate for musicians, bands, music producers and recording studios, or simple music lovers’ websites. beautiful multimedia galleries and portfolios are at your fingertips with massive dynamic, and marketing your albums, t-shirts and assorted wares is now easier than ever. get your name out there, with massive dynamic! more info / download demo mesh with a theme like mesh, you can’t go wrong. this innovative product has a modern design that is sure to impress any website visitor. mesh is highly-versatile and can be used for almost any entertainment page. it is ideal for artist, event promoter, radio, concert hall, or nightclub websites. with this theme, users can listen to music as they browse your categories and posts. this is made possible by a built-in music player. every aspect of your page will be turned into an attractive sales pitch, converting curios casuals into die-hard fans. those working in the entertainment industry must never neglect the vast potential of social media. thankfully, mesh allows you to update your followers regarding any activity, track release, or event, using the integrated social media support option. this feature wasn’t just an afterthought, as it will be at the core of your brilliant web page. of course, mesh must also serve a practical purpose. a one-click booking feature was introduced, making it possible for anyone to reserve tables for parties, seats for concerts, and so on. no need to keep a phone operator on standby, given that the site will take care of it automatically. more info / download demo music club music club is a musically-focused wordpress theme. it is made with special care for singers, labels, djs, bands and such. it uses the awesome bold builder and comes with a one-click demo import! a child theme is also included. music club features special templates or shortcodes made for the music industry. you will get calendars for tours, sidebars to add ticket selling, and a cost calculator. it also has tons of panel options and a nature customizer. music club is completely translatable with wpml and is ready to sell with woocommerce. use google fonts and font awesome icons to make texts stand out! music club runs with lots of speed and features the visualizer plugin. searching filters have been enhanced with seo. it is a theme made to cover all needs with only a few add-ons. music club is responsive, retina-ready and mobile-friendly. it adapts to various screens and devices and handles high-resolution graphics. set customizable widgets, footers and sections for sidebars easily. colors and headers are also easily adaptable to your concept. solve your doubts with documentation and customer support! free updates are also included. have a powerful tool at the tip of your hands! get your business on the spotlight with music club! more info / download demo kentha if you would like to push your songs, your band or your artistic project, kentha is the music wordpress theme you should consider. not only does it have tens upon tens of ready-to-use demos, kentha also comes with three different menus, is 100% responsive and cross-browser compatible. no matter what music you play, kentha is ready to craft a neat, trendy and attention-grabbing website to attract even more listeners. advertise your recent album releases, create an enticing playlist and showcase artists and all their details with kentha. you can also set up events and gigs, start a podcast and introduce an interactive map, this and loads more you can do easily with kentha. indeed, you are looking at a solid offering that provides you with all the necessary and loads more for a website like none out there. while using kentha is very straightforward, every user will still receive in-depth documentation and access to a team of experts. get your music project out there with kentha today. more info / download demo pantone pantone is a musical wordpress theme. it was carefully crafted to suit enterprises, musicians or anyone on the business. you will experience highly focused tailored features in a responsive design. pantone uses king composer page builder from drag & drop. the developers built it with no coding skill requirements and simplicity to use in mind. divide pages on different styles whether you are publicizing an album or an artist. recording labels will just love its flexibility, thanks to custom metaboxes! a music player is obviously also provided. pantone features the selling- and purchase-specialized plugin, woocommerce, for any product display. everything is translatable with internal files, and wpml compatibility is also offered. you will need no effort to make a profitable online business with the artists’ demo sales! pantone offers ui blocks and ux trades. it has an almost automatic updater on its dashboard and has tons of add-ons, too. this theme is made on a customizable yet modern concept to appeal to crowds in an instant. pantone is a theme made with mainly professional purposes, but can fit any music lover as well. artists on the rise or simple amateurs can feel in their comfort zone. it is easy and quick to set! try it now with a one-click install! try pantone! more info / download demo croma croma is an incredibly sleek and responsive muic wordpress theme. this theme is a sophisticated platform that empowers everyone to create beautiful, professional music websites in a matter of minutes. furthermore, croma is a perfect fit for record labels, music magazines and collectives, studios, and all similar, related music industry projects. with croma, putting together a website is as easy as dragging and dropping through the powerful visual composer page builder, adding engaging presentations with the revolution slider and even marketing your music, merchandise or products through beautiful woocommerce enabled online shops, while simultaneously providing advanced page templates such as album releases, a cutting-edge html5 based, lightweight audio player right on your website, and so much more. croma is a visual and auditory experience ripe for innovation and creation, and it can take any musical business, project or medium to the next level. wonderful social media integration and effective seo round off this powerful theme. try croma now! more info / download demo fwrd fwrd is a modern wordpress theme that allows ambitious and passionate musicians to craft their own websites. despite its powerful features and modern design, this product is very user-friendly. you do not have to be an expert web developer in order to enjoy fwrd. you will be able to create an interesting experience for your fans. stunning video backgrounds and innovative parallax effects can be included, and the layout is entirely responsive. fwrd will never experience resizing errors, given that it is compatible with hand-held devices and all web browsers. web development is not just about content, it is also about the format. the way in which something is displayed can influence its effect on the target audience. this theme has incorporated essential grid, a very practical wordpress premium plugin. it is the quintessential grid building solution that enables you to showcase your content in an intuitive and accessible grid layout. the visual composer plugin makes it easier to construct or customize pages, as it uses cutting-edge drag and drop technology. the process is as simple as its name would suggest: you only need to drag elements across the screen. this can save you a lot of time, and your music website will look amazing. more info / download demo mixtape would you like to start a fresh project but you do not really know where to begin? mixtape is the music wordpress theme that will get you moving in the online space quicker than ever. no need to be tech-savvy to make it happen, thanks to mixtape’s broad collection of ready-to-use demo materials. on top of that, mixtape is bundled with the extraordinary visual composer (wpbakery) drag and drop website builder which allows you to create custom layouts without the need to touch a single string of code. shortcodes, widgets, different header styles, mega menu, a modifiable footer, event and album pages, you name it, and mixtape will deliver. install the demo of choice with one click and you can already start improving it with your content. more info / download demo soundrise soundrise is a professional wordpress theme specializing in production and record labels. it also suits all musical artists building their new website. get it with several demos, with each their own one-click import. soundrise supports many specialized options like discographies, events, and countdowns. it features 13 customizable widgets and has lots of flexibility to put icons. some of these include one for platforms like soundcloud and mixcloud! soundrise offers multi-artists music play alongside player customizations. you will also count with amazing continuous audio players with ajax page loaders. with its awesome live audio waveforms and equalizer fx, music never has to stop. moreover, soundrise provides malleable designs for albums, covers and such. set up flexible headers and footers easily. social media icons on either of them as well as the main menu are available. soundrise has the option to sell products through online shops with the woocommerce plugin integration. pages in general are translatable through wpml and use boxed or full-width modes. soundrise is also mobile friendly and responsive with a super flexible page builder. it uses the well-known visual composer, making coding unnecessary. you will also find unlimited artists and landing pages to set! get your company, represented artists or yourself drawn to the best musical online experience with soundrise! more info / download demo musicflex musicflex is a creative and modern wordpress music industry theme. this theme is a sleek framework for creating all sorts of music-related websites. musicflex is perfect for a full range of musical projects, bands, studios and more. it combines intuitive, advanced design tools with specialized music features and capabilities. musicflex includes timeline elements to track your band history and filterable tour schedules. awesome band member profile sliders and grids let the world know what you are all about. compatible with itunes, bandcamp, spotify and more, musicflex makes music play back effortlessly. introduce your musical productions to the world at large in a stylish presentation. the wpbakery plugin provides you with the intuitive visual composer page builder. plus, a veritable treasure trove of tools, customization options, and features. handy social features and buttons make reaching out to your fans easier than ever. get musicflex today! more info / download demo stereoclub / nightclub & music wordpress theme the stereoclub is sharp, clean, sleek and responsive wordpress theme crafted for nightclubs, musicians, bands, djs, record labels and other music websites. fully responsive layout makes it to look sharp on iphone, ipad and android devices. theme comes with cool discography management system and fancy audio player. developers haven’t forget to add social media icons and unlimited color variations to unleash your creativity. the stereoclub theme is also translation and multilingual ready and packs dozens of other premium features. more info / download demo pearl pearl is a wordpress theme that adapts to anything, even such as music. it is the ideal tool for singers, musicians, bands and djs. you will get a theme designed and developed to reflect the essence of the music industry. pearl has a potent performance; it is also lighter and faster than most selling themes. it has an incredible clean, minimalistic and eye-catching design. with a layout focused on photography, videos and audio. more than 250 page templates are available and ready to use/import. a header builder and megamenu will also be at hand. pearl comes packed with specialized music related layout features. it has a section to add upcoming tours and promote albums with audio. using the continuous audio playback you can create an immersive browsing experience too. this theme is compatible with all the most popular plug-ins. woocommerce, slider revolution, contact form 7 and wpml are some of them. you will also get support for icon loader, visual composer and booked plugins. additionally, pearl has a user-friendly interface with flexible and intuitive theme options. it is built with seo in mind and thus requires no coding! just have fun setting your new awesome artistic platform! try pearl! more info / download demo sonik sonik is an easy to use and creatvie wordpress music, radio, band and music label theme. this theme has been developed to create and engaging music industry websites. sonik is the most complete musical wordpress theme on the market today, and its features range from an amazing native music player integrated with mp3 streaming capabilities to handsome and functional podcasts with a number of specific features and incredibly customizable playlists. fully functional musical post types are included for your convenience, such as music album posts, podcasts, events, artists, radio channels and much more. with sonik’s amazing music charts capabilities, you can manage your top 10 charts easily and quickly right off your website, including awesome youtube, soundcloud or mp3 previews integrated right into the layout. lightweight and robust, sonik is built on the latest html5 and css3 technologies and completely responsive and mobile friendly out of the box. sonik is the theme to help you get the world hooked on your tunes. try it today, and see for yourself! more info / download demo lush lush is an uniuqe and mobile-friendly wordpress music band and artist theme. it’s a well-polished website building kit for effortlessly putting together modern music websites. lush incorporates first of all a series of attractive and fashionable demo websites suited for very different musical tones and styles, genres and archetypes, suiting your personality or your band’s without hassle, and incorporating visual composer layout builder tools to let you fine-tune every detail of your look and feel. incredible features such as music playlists and integrated audio players, video backgrounds and one of a kind, unique 3d menu buttons and amazingly animated interactions and transitions await you under the hood of this powerhouse musical theme. lush has everything you need to get your name and voice out there, whether you are a garage punk band, a heart-breaking solo crooner or a bunch of misfit punks, lush has the right website for you. more info / download demo herion herion is a music wordpress theme that caters to very many intentions. with all the different predefined samples, you can quickly and effortlessly establish the right online presence for your main objective. on top of that, each sample is also 100% customizable with the use of the powerful drag and drop page builder. in other words, personalize herion and enrich it with your own style. everything you do with herion will produce fantastic results. the collection of features and functions of herion is vast. it contains all and everything for a speedy start on the internet. along with all possible page layouts, you also get slider revolution, support for embeddable players, discography, events, sticky (mega) menu, social media integration and custom backgrounds. you can now stand out a mile with the use of striking herion and make a difference. more info / download demo fourmusic fourmusic is an ecommerce music wordpress theme that specializes in selling instruments. for building an online music store, fourmusic is one of the best solutions you can currently get your hands on. nowadays, you only need one tool to start an online business and fourmusic is the one. however, with the included six index page samples, you can swiftly create different styles of ecommerce websites without breaking a single drop of sweat. moreover, fourmusic comes with every must-have page and element of a successfully operating online store. it is 100% responsive, so everyone can check your page regardless of the device they use. it is fast loading, seo-ready and optimized for rtl languages, too. if you are ready to take things to a different degree, waste no more time and pick fourmusic. more info / download demo rare radio rare radio is another remarkable and flexible music wordpress theme that focuses on – hence the name – radio stations and podcasts. you can now start with your project in a small breeze since rare radio rocks a spectacular collection of page layouts and features. no need to start from square one, that is a guarantee. in fact, if you dig the out of the box style of rare radio, feel free to use it exactly as is. of course, completely customizing it is possible, too. core features of rare radio are online radio stream, show management, schedule timetable and nifty galleries and sliders. you can create custom-made header and footer, add social media sharing, start a blog, heck, even start selling merch. for a small investment of money, time and energy, you can expect a professional and sophisticated outcome that will take you to the next level. more info / download demo merchato merchato is a creative and responsive wordpress music and band ecommerce website theme. this theme is a sleek framework for creating seamless music industry websites. bands, artists, producers and studios find a solid partner in merchato. advanced admin panel settings let you turn merchato inside out with a couple of clicks. with the awesome audiotheme plugin, a treasure trove of features is available. introduce your discographies to your audience. showcase your latest tracks, albums, and music videos. inform your fans of your upcoming events, gigs, and venues. geolocation tools allow them to find their way to wherever you’re playing. unique mosaic layouts make merchato pages clean and fresh-faced. musicians love working with merchato because it’s perfect for marketing. with extensive woocommerce integration, monetizing your music is easy. market your albums, your tracks, your merchandise or your tickets. woocommerce handles shopping carts and payment gateways without missing a beat. media-rich headers keep your audience engaged with awesome homepage inline videos. check out merchato today, and make it big! more info / download demo tana tana magazine is a sophisticated and sleek music wordpress theme. this theme is an extremely resourceful professional magazine website building toolkit, a potent framework for the uncomplicated and speedy development of fully functional magazine websites within moments, without having to write a line of code yourself, and with an incredibly deep capability for visual customization and multimedia management. that’s why music magazines find in tana magazine a perfect ally for their efforts. incredible music magazine demos await within tana magazine, including single page music demos, while tana magazine includes convenient features such as a customizable built-in music player, an incredibly handsome masonry billboard module, and a sophisticated artist slider, among many more widgets and specialized modules perfect for your music magazine. standard features such as a smooth recent news slider or breath-taking parallax smooth scrolling effects are available as well, all intuitively controlled by you through the seamless drag and drop premium visual composer page builder plugin, enhanced greatly with a range of unique modules and features for the complete magazine experience and full-fledged music capabilities. with tana magazine, keeping the world up to the date on the latest beats has never been this easy! more info / download demo kallyas kallyas is a multi-purpose wordpress theme ideal for areas of creative tendencies. it thus, suits well the music industry. you will get many special features with a built-in visual composer. many homepages with a one-click install are already available. kallyas music uses awesome animations and shows photo galleries. it supports 6 different sliders and css3 files. you can easily set up and publicize albums, concerts and many music formats. the developers added woocommerce plugins and pricing tables for products. if you want to set up your own online business, kallyas is the theme for you. it has unlimited headers, layouts and color mixing options. use the live customizer to look at changes immediately. moreover, kallyas music features wpml to do immediate translate. it is also very fast and speed optimized with seo and smart load. music files will have no problem loading and streaming. concerts videos won’t be a problem either. you can even arrange online events for bands on tour! kallyas music comes with an awesome live customizer and +100 web application elements. you get to try incredible plugins and get fully supported in case of emergencies. go for the video tutorials database and them the support team. each way, you will be guided through and through. have musical fun with kallyas! more info / download demo musico it is natural that most businesses with a certain niche look for specific designs. if your field happens to be music-oriented, then musico is the theme you would want for your website. this music wordpress theme covers your needs due to its specialization on the industry. thanks to its innovative approach to design, musico helps you create a fantastic band, artist or any other music-first page. first, you can build websites without coding and design experience. every ready-to-use demo and other layout is compatible with any mobile device. with hundreds of design options to choose from, you can never go wrong. it is a guarantee that musico will keep you impressed for years to come with its remarkable features. introduce a music player and offer your fans to listen to your music any time and anywhere. it is all there, at your fingertips! more info / download demo hyperbent make everyone hear your harmonies by choosing hyperbent as your website tool. join the online world with this spectacular music wordpress theme and push your tunes over and above. it is an all-in-one tool that organizes your gigs, recordings, merchandise and songs. with a systematic method, hyperbent only requires you to have an idea ready; all the rest the theme takes care of it. this theme has a customized discography feature that lets you layout your albums accordingly. preserve significant memories and display upcoming gatherings with the event list tool. this is perfect especially if you are touring for your fans. sell songs, products and merchandise with your online store, powered by woocommerce. overall, hyperbent is a total package that will positively impact your musical career. no time to waste, build your music page now and reach a global audience of listeners. more info / download demo kayo creating art through music takes passion, and kayo deeply understands this. it has never been easy in the first place, but this music wordpress takes away all the stress with its user-friendly interface. showcasing your music online has never been this effortless. kayo provides a complete set when it comes to promoting your art. all demos are imbued with fresh and breathtaking designs that capture the mood of your albums. have it your way when adding videos and animations in just a few clicks. in other words, customize and adjust the default settings of the demo you like the most and make it your own. core features include the following: playlist manager, discography, woocommerce store, portfolio layouts and social sharing to name a few. these tools and many more will be useful in your road to stardom. more info / download demo lucille lucille is a music oriented wordpress theme. it aims to attain both artists and music fans. so far it has prelauched 4 demos. it presents 3 sets of menu for each. lucille uses visual composer as its page builder and screen devices adapter. it is compatible with browsers like chrome and firefox and edge. publication is a very important matter. posts have specifics sets of rules to follow for each type of media file (photo, video, album or event). input fields have professional level for the music industry. you can separate albums (and therefore songs) by author (artist), producers, label, and release date, music genre, among others. lucille uses drag&drop for posts uploads. you can also get your events detailed by original publication media, date, tickets availability, and venue. moreover, your audience can get their shopping done through woocommerce plugin. lucille has blogs that are very easy and intuitive to customize. backgrounds are quick and simple to modify, with many engaging modern styles. themes are fully customizable for color changing. lucille has social media spread with twitter and itunes share buttons. it also has a sidebar for optimized search and no column separation. it features slider revolution. in addition, lucille has a friendly customer and technical support. it is a new envatomarket product with good references for its short release. feel the music passion in you with lucille. more info / download demo chords chords is a brilliant multi-concept entertainment wordpress theme, custom-built for entertainers, and all kinds of performers. the developers built it based on the latest bootstrap technology. they designed its music template using valid html5 and css3 coding and comes with a fully responsive layout design and retina ready for hidpi displays. chords offer 3 homepage layout options: chords solo, chords rock and chords radio. it’s available in 16 color variations, which are available both in light and dark schemes. it also comes with a drag and drop homepage layout that allows you to create unique variations of your homepage. moreover, this music theme features 6 custom post types that you can use for your small business to major label companies, solo artists or radio stations. also, this theme allows you to use parallax effects every single widget and homepage section. they also included masonry and isotope layouts in the more than 50 listing layout combinations. chords has a level dropdown menus that helps users find the content they are looking for without taking so much time. furthermore, this modern theme comes with an awesome media management feature that allows you to display all your videos and photo galleries, grouped in categories, in more than 16 different variations. sliders in chords are extremely responsive and touch swipe compatible. it includes a discography management system that allows you to easily create playlists, and embed them anywhere you wish using the track listing shortcode. chords has a built-in event management functionality. it also has soundcloud integrations and features your stream directly on your homepage with the custom coded audio player powered by soundmanager 2. lastly, this theme is 100% woocommerce friendly, seo ready and fully translatable. more info / download demo oscillator oscillator is an engaging and mobile-friendly musical wordpress theme. it is a powerful and expansive theme that has been decked out with amazing features that enable everyone to create all sorts of amazing websites, but that has been purposefully constructed with the needs of music and entertainment websites in mind. the developers also packed this theme with useful post styles like event, discography, artist, sliders and others. additionally, they optimized it for deployment upon musical and music-related websites. whether you are a music magazine, a musician, a devoted audiophile or a musical studio, oscillator packs the powerful punch you need, with sophisticated tools like streaming audio players and many custom content widgets, social networking widgets, an intuitive and easy-to-use drag & drop homepage editor that will let you produce seamless and functional websites in minutes, and six different post types for all your possible musical needs, from artist and discography posts to events, videos and galleries. more info / download demo clubix clubix is a beautiful music wordpress theme that is perfectly suited for websites that promote music, events and nightlife. you may also use it for online magazines, or other publications. the developers made clubix for party-starters, and people who are not afraid to enjoy themselves. the overall design is impressive, complemented by a large number of useful features. they also added a nifty radio and mp3 player. thanks to the versatile shortcodes and widgets, users can access it from anywhere on the website. there are 2 possible versions: large and normal. editing and personalizing your page has never been easier, thanks to the visual composer tool. it does not require any programming knowledge. you only need to drag and drop features in order to organize and move them around. this easy-to-use implementation will save you a lot of time. they also incorporated a recurring events feature, resulting in easier event management. in addition, there is the inclusion of a new section for artists that also allows you to manage and track venues, clubs, etc. you can check this feature out in the theme demo. with clubix, your website can have 2 main variations: dark and light. choose your favorite, while taking into account that you can edit your background as well. clubix also grants you the ability to upload your own personalized background, making your page feel like your own. slideshows are a popular method of presentation, and the added revolution slider definitely brings a lot of value to the theme. it lets you edit, create and delete eye-catching slides with ease. they added it as a bonus, with no additional cost. more info / download demo vocal vocal is a stylish and flexible wordpress theme suitable for music-related websites. everyone who loves music and wants to promote their music could use this theme to showcase their personal playlists, albums or music videos. vocal is fully responsive and resizes fittingly to all devices. your visitors can now access your website regardless of the device or screen sizes they prefer to use. the developers designed it with retina-ready graphic elements to make sure that your website will look stunning on hidpi displays. this theme comes with 6 pre-defined color presets and has customization options. it also allows you to create as many page layouts as you want. vocal includes a supersize background slider that could instantly grab the attention of website visitors and add variety to your website. it also comes with a drag & drop interface powered by visual composer. it has a built-in audio player that you can use in creating your own playlist. this theme also allows you to create photo albums of your album, favorite bands or artists. moreover, vocal has an amazing youtube & vimeo support to let your music videos go viral online. this theme also include a very efficient events management feature that let you create, post and promote upcoming concerts or gigs with location map and tickets price option. it is fully integrated with the woocommerce plugin to help you easily sell tickets, albums and merchandise. it also uses the mailchimp plugin to help you add a sign-up form or sign-up checkboxes to your website. in addition, it supports contact form 7 so you can manage multiple contact forms, customize the form and the email content flexibly with simple markup. more info / download demo musik musik is a music web application template built based on bootstrap 3 and coded with the newest html5 and css3 technology. it offers a clean and flat user interface, perfect for promoting music web applications. this theme is also 100% responsive and works faultlessly on different handheld devices. moreover, it has 8 color palettes and amazing web app layouts to help you create a cool music web app. this theme reminds me of the widely popular music streaming service spotify. it’s not a clone, but the two look very similar to each other. more info / download demo goodlife when we are not listening to music, we often find ourselves writing about it or discussing the latest releases. goodlife is a wordpress theme that can facilitate the construction of a superior music-themed website. it is best to view this product as a digital swiss army knife that has a tool for any occasion. indeed, goodlife boasts an impressive collection of features, each promising to increase your view count. for example, the premium visual composer plugin facilitates both frontend and backend page personalization. it is very intuitive since it uses the powerful drag and drop technology. this can drastically reduce your workload, helping you to save time. users can even incorporate music videos on their pages, due to the standard wordpress oembed api. with goodlife, it is now easier to appeal to different demographics. your website will be fully-translatable and wpml-compatible. the sub-header can display a language switcher option. you can also use an infinite number of sidebars, and assign them to various categories or pages. moreover, the theme code is flawless, and the site loading times will be lightning-fast. furthermore, goodlife understands how search engines work, and it shows. users can rest easy knowing that their pages can easily climb search engine rankings. more info / download demo sessions if you work in the entertainment industry and are interested in a quality wordpress theme for your business website, look no further than sessions. your web page will be the epicenter of your marketing campaign, and you need to make sure that your art will be appreciated. images are very important when it comes to entertainment, and this theme can enhance your site’s appearance and functionality. regardless of the industry, people will always appreciate samples. thankfully, sessions has incorporated a nifty streaming audio player. it allows your followers to sample and even download some of your sound files. you can also take advantage of the theme’s track listing system, and establish a personal live station. the 6 different post types create variation and diversity for your content. if used wisely, they are a vital tool for content promotion. compromise and art do not go well together. this theme gives you complete creative control of the setup process. moreover, custom widgets along with drag and drop capabilities guarantee that the end result will always stay true to your vision. additionally, you may even create a personal online store that facilitates the commercialization of your tracks. lastly, the developers incorporated social media widgets into the theme, along with a retina-ready layout. more info / download demo acoustic – music wordpress theme acoustic is a sharp and sleek responsive wordpress theme designed for musicians, bands, djs, nightclubs, producers, event organizers and everyone else involved in the music industry. you can easily add the custom post types for events management, discography, videos, artists, and galleries. you can also adjust the system needs to suit the needs of nightclubs, bands, and various other purposes. moreover, theme packs customizable core which allows changing fonts, colors, background images, sliders, and dozens of other details. overall, this theme will bring your venture to an entirely new level. more info / demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. audiobootstrapevent themesmusicmusic themeswordpresswordpress themes share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts 30+ best fullscreen wordpress themes for blog, corporate, portfolio and photography websites 2020 a hand-picked list of the top fullscreen wordpress themes designed and developed for 2020. all… top 23 high-quality shopify themes 2019 looking for a fancy shopify theme that will work smoothly and look professional? check out… top 20+ affiliate marketing wordpress themes to make money online 2020 the modern age is a complex one, filled with vexing contradictions and routinely chaotic events.… best winter activities wordpress themes 2019 for those involved in the sphere of winter sports, we have prepared a selection of… eco and organic farming wordpress themes for your harvest the 21st century has officially become the age when people are beginning to arrive at… 10 best timeline wordpress themes to liven up your website is your website timeline ready? discover how to revamp your online image with the timeline… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 48 best photography wordpress themes for professional and hobby photographers 2020 next post: 23 best accounting wordpress themes 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×