wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 40+ popular universities that are using wordpress 40+ popular universities that are using wordpress last updated on june 7th, 2017 by editorial staff 275 shares share tweet share pin often people think that wordpress is just a blogging platform that you use to start a personal blog. that might have been true in 2003, but now wordpress powers nearly 28% of all websites on the internet. this includes many of the top brands as well as some of the most well-respected universities. in this article, we will showcase 40+ popular universities that are using wordpress. why and how universities are using wordpress? wordpress is open source and highly customizable that makes it a great choice for universities and college websites. it is easy to setup and maintain, which allows university it departments to quickly create and launch new websites. many universities use wordpress multisite network to allow faculty and students to create their own websites on university servers. wordpress is also commonly used for college news and magazine websites. last but not least, wordpress is also being used as a lms solution in higher ed. having said that, let’s take a look at how some of the most popular universities are using wordpress. 1. harvard blogs 2. boston university – study abroad 3. university of berlin 4. university of melbourne 5. oregon state university blogs 6. the nieman journalism lab at harvard university 7. cornell university 8. georgia state university 9. boise state university 10. des moines university 11. the university of maine 12. university of calgary 13. bates college 14. queen’s college 15. wheaton college 16. ucf college of medicine 17. mit 18. university of california – berkeley 19. university of virginia 20. bowling green state university 21. lafayette college 22. fiu college of engineering and computing 23. the university of british columbia 24. adams state university 25. the university of mary washington 26. university of arkansas at little rock 27. drew university 28. princeton university press 29. university of missouri 30. university of chicago 31. university of brighton 32. boston university – admissions 33. carleton university 34. university of tennessee at chattanooga 35. northeastern university 36. university of southern california 37. vanderbilt university 38. georgetown university 39. penn state university 40. texas a&m university 41. university of alabama 42. university of iowa 43. wayne state university 44. clark university 45. university of oxford it services while we have to end our list here, there are many more universities all over the world that are using wordpress. ready to start your own wordpress website? check out our step by step guide on how to make a website for detailed instructions. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 275 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 12 commentsleave a reply andrea hurtado says: nov 26, 2018 at 8:57 pm hi: can we build an online school? the students are going to be the ones login in and following the material thought out the different levels. taking different kinds of exams, studying the material such as: videos, written articles and audios. is this possible? reply wpbeginner support says: nov 27, 2018 at 9:08 am hi andrea, it can be done using an lms plugin like learndash. reply claudz says: jun 16, 2018 at 10:13 pm hello! i just wonder… can we create an online school webpage where you can integrate all the lesson materials, where tutors can log into their account and use the full function of the webpage in their tutorials, like lesson materials, checking their students’ profiles, updating their tutoring schedule, etc. thanks! ^_^ reply jules webb says: jun 10, 2017 at 12:18 am don’t forget washington state university! wp core dev jeremy felt heads that up. reply anis says: jun 7, 2017 at 9:57 pm i’d like to see an article with the top 40 news websites using wordpress reply wpbeginner support says: jun 7, 2017 at 11:58 pm hi anis, we will try to cover that soon. meanwhile, check out our list of notable big name brands using wordpress. it has some famous news websites as well. reply robert karl popa says: aug 26, 2016 at 7:35 am wordpress is infinitely more valuable for our humanity than all the commercial, financial, services, industrial, energy and automotive companies alltogether. reply raichand ray says: may 4, 2016 at 6:52 am hi, list of educational institution using wordpress provided above is great. please provide a good tutorial “how to create great educational websites with wordpress”.that would be very much useful. thanks raichand ray reply wpbeginner support says: may 4, 2016 at 10:40 pm thanks for the feedback, we will try to cover that in a future article. reply emmanuel ike says: sep 9, 2015 at 3:00 pm good day, i woul like to know to to design a registration portal with wordpress reply vitaliy kolos says: aug 1, 2014 at 6:29 pm great stuff. does it also mean that those universities site’s are easy to hack for the people in the know? just kidding. i guess it’s pretty logical that those universities use wordpress because it’s super easy to setup. is it me or more tech oriented universities tend to use drupal for their sites? reply chris raymond says: aug 4, 2014 at 2:43 pm and what would those universities be? i see mit, texas tech, and fiu in a quick perusal. i’d love to see your list! reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) siteground coupon get 70% off siteground wordpress hosting. wp courseware coupon get 30% off on wp courseware wordpress learning management system plugin. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.