wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 41 best free wordpress photography themes (expert pick) 41 best free wordpress photography themes (expert pick) last updated on december 15th, 2015 by editorial staff 351 shares share tweet share pin are you looking for best free wordpress photography themes for your website? wordpress is used by thousands of photographers, designers, and artists from all over the world to beautifully display their portfolio and photos. in this article, we will show you 40+ best free wordpress photography themes that you can use on your website. before we begin, take a look at our guide on how to select the perfect theme for wordpress. it will help you understand the things that you should look for in a wordpress theme. having said that, let’s take a look at some of the best free wordpress photography themes. 1. portfolio gallery portfolio gallery is a fully responsive and free wordpress photography theme. it comes with multiple page templates and a lightbox popup to display your photographs beautifully. 2. aperture this aptly named theme is a fully responsive wordpress photography theme. it comes with built-in full screen slider to display your photographs on your homepage. 3. tography lite topography is a beautiful free wordpress theme designed for photography blogs. it features a minimalist design with focus on images and typography. 4. photo session as the name suggests, photo session is a fully responsive free wordpress photography theme. it comes with a full screen slider and compact navigation menus. 5. divina divina is a modern wordpress free photography theme. it comes with a side header which also acts as your navigation menu and sidebar. it gracefully disappears on mobile and tablet devices. divina is perfect for photographers, fashion blogs, modeling agencies, etc. 6. photo world photo world is a fully responsive and woocommerce ready photography theme for wordpress. it comes with a full screen slider on the homepage with thumbnail displays. 7. lens lens is a responsive wordpress theme with ideal for photographers, designers, and advertisers. it comes with beautiful gallery layouts, about page template, and social menu. 8. veal veal is a simple wordpress theme designed to showcase images and galleries. it is a multi-purpose theme and can be used with almost any kind of wordpress site. 9. patio with a minimalist design approach, patio is a responsive wordpress theme for photographers and designers. it uses the built-in featured images to curate your homepage in a beautiful responsive layout. 10. inovate inovate is a very simple blog theme with focus on usability. it comes with showcase template that allows you to beautifully showcase your photographs, images, and other works. 11. quest quest is a powerful and modern multi-purpose wordpress theme. its flexibility allows you to use it for a portfolio or photography website as well as a business website. it is colorful and highly customizable. 12. harmonic harmonic is a beautiful wordpress theme with fullscreen images. ideal to display your photographs, portfolio, or use it for travel or fashion blog. 13. freak freak is an elegant wordpress theme with a beautiful parallax header. it comes with a built-in responsive slider, large featured images and multiple page layouts. 14. zifer child zifer is a child theme of zerif lite. it is designed to be more focused on photography and portfolio websites. it looks stunningly beautiful on all devices. 15. protopress protopress is a designed for portfolio and photography websites. it is a powerful theme with loads of options. it features multiple layouts, featured content areas, showcases, fully configurable sidebar width, slider with 3d effects, google fonts, etc. 16. yuuta yuuta takes a very visual yet very simplistic approach to wordpress photography theme. it comes with multiple styles for different post formats. ideal for photo blogs and visual diaries but can easily be used for other kind of websites as well. 17. adriondack adirondack comes with a beautiful grid layout that makes it a perfect choice for photography websites. it features large images, beautiful typography, home and blog layouts along with the standard wordpress theme features like custom menus and background. 18. coherent coherent is a stunning wordpress theme with fullscreen header images and beautiful typography. it features a compact navigation menu, social menu, sliding panel, among other standard features. 19. biancaa an extremely easy to use wordpress theme. bianca is a minimalist wordpress photography or portfolio theme. it is mobile-ready and looks great on all device sizes. 20. sg window sg window is a highly customizable theme for photography or travel websites. it is fully responsive and features a homepage with grid layout. it has multiple sidebars, page templates, and custom widgets. 21. rokophoto lite rokophoto lite is a theme designed for photo bloggers. it focuses on visual appearance of your images as well as your content. it has a minimalist design approach that looks very elegant and soothing. 22. stained glass stained glass is a feature rich and highly customizable theme. it comes with multiple sidebars and you can choose the layout from theme customizer. you can choose four column-grid layout for your blog and archive page. 23. avnii avnii is a bootstrap based fully responsive wordpress theme. it has easy customization panel, multiple color schemes, a built-in slider, and multiple page templates. it is a multi-purpose theme, which means you can use it for any kind of wordpress site. 24. dream way dream way is a child theme of sg windows (mentioned above). it inherits all the features of the parent theme with its own style. dream way has multiple layout choices like right sidebar, left sidebar, or three column layouts. it also supports woocommerce and can be used on ecommerce websites as well. 25. panaroma panorama is a stunningly beautiful wordpress photography theme. it features large sliders that takeover the homepage and provide a very interactive and engaging user experience. the blog and archive pages feature the usual blog layout. 26. jax lite create a stunning portfolio or photography website with jax lite, a minimalist and stylish wordpress theme. jax lite features a masonry grid layout with a large parallax background in the header. it has a compact navigation menu that works great on both mobile and desktop devices. 27. eryn eryn is a fresh beautiful theme with main focus on personal blogging. it features a two column layout with a large background for the header column. it is fully responsive and has a compact navigation and search bar. 28. great great is a multi-purpose wordpress theme with lots of customization options. it has a beautiful homepage layout which makes it ideal for a photography website. it has custom header, custom background, multiple page layouts, social menus, contact info, and multiple widget ready areas. 29. photo perfect photo perfect is a photography theme ideal for fashion photography, ad agencies, and modeling agencies. the theme features large images, grid layout, slider, and compact menu. 30. silvia silvia is a minimalist style photography wordpress theme. it is designed with a focus on photography, graphic design, fashion, art, architecture, interior design, and other creative fields. it is fully responsive, retina-ready, and seo-friendly. 31. travel stories as the name suggests, travel stories is a wordpress theme focused on story-telling, travel, and photos. it has a very visual style with the focus on photographs as the most visual content on the screen. 32. skt black skt black is a multi-purpose wordpress theme with loads of customization choices. it uses a full screen slider on the homepage and grid based layout which makes it a great choice for photography websites. 33. maker maker is an elegant and minimalist wordpress photography theme. with lots of white space and grid based layout it creates a very interesting and simplistic feel. it is very easy to setup and customize. 34. hitchcock hitchcock is a visually stunning wordpress photography theme featuring a full screen parallax background. large featured images and compact menus make your photographs pop out. 35. azeria azeria is a simple blogging theme with minimalist design approach. it is fully responsive and supports all the standard wordpress features such as custom background, header images, large featured images, responsive layout, etc. 36. pinnacle pinnacle is a bold multi-purpose wordpress theme. it is loaded with features and comes with easy customization options. 37. gridsby gridsby is a beautiful grid-based wordpress photography theme. it uses masonry layout grid with a compact navigation menu and a social menu. this gives prominence to your photographs. it is very easy to setup and comes with all the standard set of features. 38. boardwalk boardwalk is an elegant and wordpress photography theme with minimalist design approach. it features horizontal scrolling which makes it quite engaging and beautiful for photography and other visual content. 39. wiles wiles is a simple blue wordpress theme. it uses featured images and excerpts for the grid based layout on the home, archive, and blog pages. 40. obscura a classy, clean and simple wordpress theme, obscura features large featured images and a beautiful two column layout. designed for photography themes, it can also be used as a multi-purpose theme. 41. canard canard features three navigation menus, and a beautiful grid based layout. it is designed to elegantly display your photographs, art, and other visual content. it supports all the standard wordpress features, with easy customization options and fully mobile-responsive. we hope this article helped you find the best free wordpress photography theme for your website. you may also want to see our guide on how to easily create beautiful responsive image galleries in wordpress with envira. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 351 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 8 commentsleave a reply henry obinna says: oct 6, 2017 at 10:08 pm i like them. beautiful and responsive. reply shadhey says: aug 26, 2017 at 9:43 am great themes!! thanks!! reply chandana joshi says: may 25, 2016 at 5:56 am liked it!!!!! hope to try in future!!!! reply vijay jadon says: may 21, 2016 at 5:34 am above all themes are great, thanks for sharing. reply mila says: mar 6, 2016 at 3:08 pm theme 5: divina seems to be broken, regards. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 6, 2016 at 11:43 pm please report the error you see to the theme author. reply megan says: dec 17, 2015 at 9:53 am portfolio gallery and gridsby are great themes. it is very easy to use and the frond end design is very modern reply natalie james says: dec 16, 2015 at 11:01 pm morning, thank you for this article. i am currently running the blog theme chicago. first i would like to ask if this is a photography blogging theme? then if i wanted to change to one of the themes you have shown how would i go about that? are these paid for themes? if i am unable to change my theme, is there a way that i can make the display of my images larger/wider? thank you for your fantastic support. regards natalie james reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.