wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 42 best simple wordpress themes you should try (2020) 42 best simple wordpress themes you should try (2020) last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 778 shares share tweet share pin are you looking for the cleanest, simple and easy to use wordpress theme for your website? many wordpress themes come with tons of options making it difficult to set up and use. however, beginners look for simple and flexible themes to get started. in this article, we have hand-picked some of the best simple wordpress themes that you can install on your website. these themes are clean, easy to use, and relatively minimalist. starting a wordpress site with a simple theme first, you need to make sure that you start with the right platform to build your website. a self-hosted wordpress.org site gives you the freedom and flexibility to grow your website. next, you will need a domain name and web hosting. this is how users find your website. we recommend using bluehost or siteground. they are one of the largest hosting companies in the world and official wordpress hosting partners. for more recommendations, see our guide on how to choose the best wordpress hosting. once you have signed up for hosting, the next step is to install wordpress. follow the instructions in our how to start a wordpress blog guide, and you will be up and running in no time. after installing wordpress, you can select a theme from our selection of simple wordpress themes. need help installing the theme? follow the instructions in our step by step how to install a wordpress theme guide for beginners. having said that, let’s take a look at some of the best simple wordpress themes. this list contains both free and paid wordpress themes and all of them are fully mobile responsive. 1. essence pro essence is built on top of the genesis theme framework. it is a simple and clutter-free wordpress theme for health, wellness, and lifestyle niches. it comes with a widget-ready home page layout where you can just drag and drop widgets to build your homepage. it is quite easy to use and very easy to set up. studiopress is now a part of wp engine, the most popular managed wordpress hosting company. you can get this theme and all 35+ other studiopress themes if you sign up for wp engine hosting to build your website. bonus: wpbeginner users also get additional 20% off. get started with wp engine. 2. astra astra is a colorful yet simple wordpress theme with multiple ready-made websites for lifestyle, fitness, food, and personal websites. it comes with multiple page layouts, several custom widgets, and unlimited color options. it is easy to set up and can be customized using the live theme customizer. this theme is made for the page builders to quickly create pages with a simple drag and drop. astra is optimized for speed and performance. 3. didi didi is an excellent example of a simple wordpress theme with an elegant and minimalist design. this beautiful theme comes with multiple homepage layouts, page templates, widget areas, and more. all theme options are available under live customizer for easier setup. it also includes full-support for page builders, woocommerce, multilingual websites, and can be easily translated. its easier setup and simpler design will help you get started with minimum effort. 4. hestia hestia is a free multi-purpose wordpress theme. it comes with a companion plugin that adds testimonials, services, and a homepage section to your website. it is easy to set up using the live theme customizer. it is compatible with popular free page builder plugins and offers out of the box support for woocommerce. 5. oceanwp oceanwp is an elegant and simple wordpress theme designed specifically for blogs, magazine, restaurants, online stores, and fitness websites. it comes with multiple layouts for your blog, powerful premium extensions, several custom widgets, and multiple post formats. it supports custom logo, navigation menus, and social buttons. it is woocommerce ready so you can easily add an online store to your wordpress site. 6. atmosphere built on top of the genesis theme framework, atmosphere is a simple wordpress theme for business, portfolio, and personal websites. it has an easy to set up fully-widgetized homepage, a custom landing page, and a two column layout template. theme setup is quite straight-forward with the help of live theme customizer and does not take much time. 7. beautiful beautiful is a simple yet stylish wordpress beauty theme by studiopress. it comes with a widgetized homepage with four widget areas and has multiple templates for your blog, homepage, archive, and landing pages. it is designed to beautifully showcase your featured posts. it is optimized for speed and performance and comes with a quick and straightforward setup. 8. true north true north is a flexible and simple wordpress theme with a beautiful design. it features a beautiful grid layout on the home page with a beautiful display of images. it has multiple layout choices and a built-in portfolio section. it also supports custom background, custom header, and has several custom widgets for social media and content discovery features. 9. magazine magazine is a wordpress theme for bloggers looking for a simple design and powerful features. it includes a built-in featured content slider with multiple styles. the theme has over 42 built-in layouts to get started. it also has several blog layouts, multiple page templates, and multiple homepage layouts. all the theme options can be set up using live theme customizer. 10. divi divi is a powerful and simple wordpress theme for all kinds of websites. it can also be used as a page builder to create pages instantly. it has a distraction-free design specifically for bloggers and writers. you can create a story with visuals by the simple drag and drop builder. with divi, you can simply click on the screen and start typing just like that. it allows you to fully customize each element on your website, organize the content into columns and rows, responsive editing, and more. it comes with tons of pre-built content elements to make your work easier than ever. 11. corner corner is a simple wordpress theme for personal websites, blogs, and portfolio websites. it has a built-in section for portfolio and it can also be used as a personal website. it supports unlimited color variations and comes with tons of customization options. 12. gema gema is a minimalist wordpress simple theme suitable for blogging and magazine websites. it features a beautiful layout with large images, beautiful typography, and unique menu styles. it is easy to use with all theme options neatly organized under theme customizer. most theme settings would just work out of the box. 13. tusant tusant is a stunningly beautiful and simple wordpress blog theme built specifically for podcasts, music streaming, and video-based sites. it is designed to help you create engaging content using images and videos. it uses beautiful animations with multiple page layouts and custom content discovery widgets. it also has a full-width custom background image and supports audio and video sources. 14. writee writee is a free wordpress theme for bloggers and writers. it features beautiful typography and an elegant layout that looks great on all devices. inside you will find a featured content slider allowing you to showcase your most important content at the top. 15. presence presence is a great choice for a simple wordpress business theme. it is packed with features to easily build any kind of business website. particularly, it is perfect for real estate, music bands, hotel, web design, and other service providers. it includes 10 demo websites that you can easily import and then just replace the content with your own to create your website instantly. 16. roxima roxima is a gorgeous wordpress theme for business, blogs, and portfolio websites. it ships with an easy to set up drag and drop homepage builder and custom content modules with multiple columns and layout variations for you to choose from. 17. breakthrough if you are looking for a distraction-free theme for your blog, then you will like breakthrough. it is a simple, sleek, and modern wordpress theme for bloggers, advertisers, and marketing agencies with the main focus on beautiful typography and gorgeous image display. it requires very little time to set up and gets out of your way so that you can create amazing content on your blog. 18. enterprise enterprise is a simple wordpress theme for business websites. it has a built-in portfolio and services section, beautiful image galleries, and a slider for your homepage. among other features, it has faqs section, pricing tables, custom background, and many flexible customization options. 19. libretto if you need a beautiful free wordpress blog theme with a distraction free layout, then libretto is an excellent option. the main feature of the theme is its unique color scheme and gorgeous typography. designed in the traditional classic blog layout, this theme is perfect for long-form content, photography, and personal websites. 20. elegant elegant is a wordpress blog and portfolio theme. it features a beautiful layout with the logo and navigation menu on top with a social menu. it has multiple layout options including a grid layout. it has a built-in portfolio content type, several custom widgets, multiple color schemes, and easy to use theme options panel. 21. coastline coastline is a simple wordpress photography and portfolio theme with a beautiful column grid layout. it includes additional layout choices that you can use with several custom widgets, page templates, and sidebar navigation menu. it has a portfolio content post type to design your portfolio. coastline supports jetpack to add powerful features to your website. 22. paperbag paperbag is a simple wordpress blog theme. it ships with 20+ color and typography schemes and different layout styles. there are several custom widgets inside that you can use for social media integration and content discovery features. it has a built-in featured content carousel for the homepage. all the theme options can be set up using live theme customizer with lots of flexible options. 23. neve neve is a free and simple wordpress blog theme. it comes with a navigation menu at the top alongside the search bar. it has built-in social sharing buttons, a featured content slider, and about us section on the homepage. this theme is easy to customize and woocommerce ready to create a storefront. 24. float float is a simple and stylish wordpress blog theme with great features. inside you will find several layout choices, a homepage slider, google fonts integration, social share options, and parallax scrolling effects. it has a refreshing design which is fully customizable using theme customizer. it also supports woocommerce out of the box. 25. mont blanc mont blanc is a multipurpose wordpress theme that is suitable for almost any kind of wordpress site. designed to be flexible, it includes lots of customization options, multiple layouts choices, and several homepage styles. it can be easily used for a magazine website or as a one page theme. inside you will find portfolio section, photo galleries, and built-in sliders with several display options. 26. maxwell maxwell is a simplistic free wordpress theme for magazines and blogs. designed to showcase your content beautifully, maxwell uses featured images, custom excerpts, and beautiful typography to create an engaging experience for your users. it has a built-in featured content slider and two navigation menus. all the theme options can be easily set up using live customizer. 27. igloo looking for a simple wordpress theme for your restaurant website? igloo is a beautiful wordpress restaurant theme with a built-in menu management system. it also has a testimonials section where you can showcase glowing reviews left by your customers and photo gallery to showcase your most popular dishes. igloo features a truly unique layout and offers multiple color schemes and layout choices. 28. baskerville baskerville is another free wordpress theme with beautiful layout and some pretty neat features. it features a full-width header image and masonry layout for the homepage. it uses beautiful thumbnails for your videos, text, and other post formats. 29. responz responz is a simple wordpress theme designed for news and editorial blogs. it features a 3-column layout with social media integration and beautiful typography. it has multiple color schemes, featured posts section, 2 navigation menus, ad spaces, carousel slider, and multiple sidebars. it’s easy to set up. all theme options can be managed from the live wordpress customizer. 30. brittany brittany is a stylish wordpress blog theme with a beautiful design. the homepage features an intro section at the top followed by your most important content. it has several layout options and templates for different pages. you will also get several custom widgets for easy social media integration and content discovery features. 31. futurio if you are looking for a wordpress theme that is incredibly fast and lightweight, then futurio is a great choice. it is unique in a way that it does not display your featured images on the front page which makes your homepage load much faster. it is designed for bloggers and is a great choice for long form content. it supports custom logo, custom header, welcome message, and background. it comes with homepage blurbs to display featured content beautifully. 32. peak peak is a modern wordpress blog theme for portfolios, photographers, and personal blogs. it includes several layouts and color schemes, a built-in slider, and a masonry style layout. it supports mega menu, and ecommerce ready to create an online store. 33. mesmerize mesmerize is a free wordpress theme suitable for bloggers, magazine, and photography websites. it comes with a custom header background, woocommerce support, homepage sections, and a navigation menu on top. theme setup is quicker and you will get a professional looking website in far less time. 34. nozama nozama is an amazon-inspired wordpress theme with a simple and stylish look. it focuses on beautiful typography and gorgeous display of images to make your content more engaging. it comes with a header category menu, featured categories section, multiple layout options, and infinite scroll. it is easy to set up and includes a getting started page to help you setup theme. 35. onepress onepress is a free wordpress theme with a beautiful and stylish look. the homepage layout uses a stylish parallax effect, featured content blocks, and woocommerce ready. it features beautiful typography and looks great on all devices. 36. daily dish pro daily dish is a wordpress blogging theme with a professional design. the most notable features of the theme are its crisp typography and beautiful display of images. it has a widgetized homepage layout which is quick and easy to set up. it has multiple page templates, custom header, and full woocommerce support. 37. beatrix if you are looking for a wordpress theme to sell arts and craft, then beatrix is a great choice for that. this beautiful multi-purpose wordpress theme has full woocommerce support and features a gorgeous homepage layout to showcase your products. 38. ultra ultra is a simple wordpress theme designed specifically to create any type of website. it features multiple built-in layouts, flexible addons, smart layout options, custom fonts, and unlimited colors. all the layouts will have built-in sections like the portfolio, services, team members, and partners. it supports section-based scrolling, mega menus, archive layouts, and animated colors. 39. consulting consulting is a free and multipurpose wordpress theme for bloggers with three custom featured sections on the homepage. it supports parallax slider, custom colors with multiple page templates including a custom archives page. designed to instantly set up a professional looking blog, consulting is quick and easy to set up and looks stunning even on smaller screens. 40. benson benson is another elegant and simple wordpress blog theme photographers. it offers large, full-width, and list layouts for your photos. inside you will find custom widgets for author bio, social media buttons, content discovery features, video slideshow, and multiple image layouts. it supports unlimited colors, left or right sidebar, custom logo, header, and background. it is easy to set up using live theme customizer and will help you quickly get started with your blog. 41. landing landing is a beautiful wordpress multipurpose theme built specifically to create simple websites. it features beautiful typography, custom background, and pre-built layouts which look great on all devices and screen sizes. it supports the themify drag and drop builder to create pages and add features on your website. landing has custom header templates, portfolio post type, event post type, and woocommerce ready to create an online store. 42. allegiant allegiant is a multi-purpose wordpress theme that can be adapted for ecommerce, business, magazine, or a photography website. it comes with flexible options that allow you to choose your own layout. it includes unlimited color choices, custom widgets, google fonts, and full woocommerce support. it is designed to work out of the box with minimum effort, which makes it quite easy to use. we hope this article helped you find the best wordpress simple theme for your website. you may also want to see our ultimate step by step wordpress seo guide for beginners. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 778 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 16 commentsleave a reply zana says: apr 1, 2019 at 8:41 pm thank you for the wealth of info you are sharing. a little overwhelmed, but learning a lot. i’m looking for a theme where i can write content and include a recipe with a picture and basic nutritional info. not every post will have a recipe, but i need a theme where i can add a recipe and picture without using another theme. just learning about wordpress. i know i will need a recipe plugin. confused how the plugin will work with the theme. thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 2, 2019 at 11:13 am you may want to take a look at our article covering adding recipes here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-add-recipes-in-wordpress-with-seo-friendly-formatting/ reply kim thornley says: jan 8, 2019 at 9:29 am i have loked and can’t find a wordpress theme that suits what i what my site to become. it is a site for music and photographs, so it must be able to have photograph galleries, mp3 streaming, download facilities for various formats of music and pictures plus the usual contact stuff. in my head, the home page is a single background colour (which matches the logo/header). each page is colour themed (ie: a different colour scheme for each band/picture gallery). the current themes i have tried, do not fulfill my requirements and i am getting very frustrated. each time i try to modify a theme that looked promising, it does not let me accomplish what i consider to be a simple alteration. i want a template that will allow me to do what i have described briefly. any suggestions? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 8, 2019 at 10:58 am for creating your own specific setup for a design you would want to take a look into page builders: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/best-drag-and-drop-page-builders-for-wordpress/ reply james luckern says: feb 14, 2019 at 7:24 pm do a search for those goals in the add new plugin. all features that can be added to any theme. most are added to page using short code. youtube has a ton of tutorials reply karyn ingold says: dec 12, 2018 at 5:02 am what would be your suggestion for a social surfing club. need gallery, calendar, monthly update, membership form, link to fb and contact infor. reply linda says: dec 3, 2018 at 9:46 am i am going to have an informative e-commerce site with a limited number of products, lots of educational material. i do not want site that opens to a picture as the main page. are there wordpress themes that don’t have that? i find it ridiculous to want info and be forced to look at some picture, then click again to find what i want. thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 3, 2018 at 10:07 pm hi linda, the large header images are shown in theme demos just to illustrate the feature. most themes have option to not show an image in the header. reply reg says: mar 7, 2018 at 3:33 am thank you for this. programmers these days trying to push the boundaries catering for everyone in the process catering for no one. reply dina says: jan 5, 2018 at 6:51 pm i have found a few i like – but when i go to my wordpress.org bluehosted site – i can’t figure out how to pull them up – help please! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 5, 2018 at 9:51 pm hi dina, please see our guide on how to install a wordpress theme for detailed instructions. reply rushikesh thawale says: oct 19, 2017 at 7:37 am hello, i need a free (simple) wordpress theme which will show posts side by side in categories. which one would you prefer? reply david pratt says: oct 18, 2017 at 9:15 am i am trying to resurrect an old copy of thesis and finding it difficult to understand. thesis support doesn’t reply. since i am a very beginner would you advise me to dump thesis, take up a wordpress theme and start over? my only option is to find some helpful site, such as wpbeginner.com, that could help me understand thesis and sort specific issues i have. recommendations would be valuable. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: oct 18, 2017 at 11:13 am hi david, the best way to learn the usage of a theme or framework is through official documentation. if you find the support inadequate, then you may want to try your hands on some other product that has more extensive documentation or better support options. reply dave says: may 8, 2017 at 10:01 pm i was wondering if anyone could help me. i am looking for a very simple theme, where the featured image is in the top left corner of the page and text wrapped. please note that i know how to do this in design view, per picture. but hoping for a theme tnat does it automatically. for an example please see ready review by themeisle, but i am looking for a simpler one, with just the picture thing going on. reply soumik sadman anwar says: apr 18, 2017 at 5:53 am liked the “writee” theme, perfect for me. thanks wpbeginner. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.