wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 49 best woocommerce wordpress themes 49 best woocommerce wordpress themes last updated on january 6th, 2020 by editorial staff 377 shares share tweet share pin are you looking for the best woocommerce themes for your online store? not all wordpress themes offer complete woocommerce support and pre-styled templates. in this article, we will show you the best woocommerce wordpress themes that you can use to build your ecommerce website. how to build a woocommerce wordpress website woocommerce is the most popular ecommerce platform in the world, powering small and large ecommerce websites around the globe (see: shopify vs woocommerce). it runs on top of wordpress, which is one of the most powerful website builders in the world. there are two types of wordpress websites, wordpress.com and wordpress.org (see our comparison of wordpress.com vs wordpress.org). we recommend using wordpress.org, it gives you access to all woocommerce features out of box and will help you take your store in any direction you want. to get started, you will need a domain name, ssl certificate, and woocommerce hosting account. we recommend using bluehost. they are one of the largest and officially recommended woocommerce and wordpress hosting provider. they have agreed to offer wpbeginner users free domain, free ssl, and discount on hosting. basically, you can get started for $6.95 / month. → click here to claim this exclusive bluehost offer ← once you have signed up for woocommerce hosting, you can follow our step by step instructions in our guide on how to start an online store. that being said, let’s take a look at the best woocommerce wordpress themes that you can install on your website. 1. astra astra is a clean and free wordpress theme with full woocommerce support and flexible customization options. it includes modern homepage layout with multiple widget-ready areas to simply drag and drop content widgets. it supports all popular page builder plugins to create custom wordpress page layouts. theme setup is quite simple and beginner friendly. the best part about astra is that it comes with dozens of pre-made templates that you can start with. 2. extra by elegantthemes extra is a new theme by elegant themes that gives you the flexibility to create diverse categories, homepages, and story-driven content. powered by the popular divi builder, you can use extra to create beautiful store layouts. it works seamlessly with woocommerce. divi is one of the most popular wordpress page builders in the market. it allows you to create custom layouts with a visual drag & drop interface, so you can create custom website designs without writing any code. 3. shoppe shoppe is a highly customizable woocommerce wordpress theme for online stores, ecommerce, fashion and lifestyle websites. it has powerful quick product search, ajax shopping cart, wishlist, quick look lightbox, product image zoom, and more. it includes tons of layout and styling options which are all quite easy to use. it also comes with a drag and drop page builder that allows you to create your own layouts. 4. løge løge is an elegant woocommerce wordpress theme with a modern design and powerful ecommerce features. it offers different shop front layouts, adjustable product columns, and product filters. its beautiful typography and color schemes make your products popout. you can also create your own color schemes by changing theme colors. all options are quite easy to manage under live theme customizer. 5. ultra ultra is an all-purpose wordpress theme with super-flexible options and gorgeous designs. it includes several read-made websites that can be installed with 1-click including an ecommerce website. you just need to replace content with your own. it also has a drag and drop page builder to easily create your own layouts if needed. it includes features like pricing tables, multiple header styles, contact form, photo galleries, and more. 6. neto neto is a modern wordpress theme for woocommerce stores. it features an elegant homepage layout and storefront with a featured product slider on top. it includes several shortcodes and custom widgets and offers multiple ways to create different layouts for your store. it has support for custom logo upload, unlimited colors, custom widgets for social media, and more. all theme options are neatly organized under live customizer. 7. digital pro digital pro is another excellent wordpress theme for woocommerce stores. built on top of genesis theme framework, it is highly optimized for wordpress speed and performance. it includes pre-styled templates for woocommerce stores, 3 widget areas, customizable header, and page templates. for theme set up it has a custom theme options page and live customizer support. 8. shoptimizer shoptimizer is a premium woocommerce theme that is highly optimized for speed and performance. it packs a ton of features to optimize your conversions including sticky product details, faster checkout, request a callback, fomo timers on product pages, and more. it also comes with beautiful page templates, a mega menu, and a faster product search feature. it is easy to use and all theme settings are easily accessible via theme customizer. 9. hugo hugo is a beautifully designed wordpress woocommerce theme for online stores of any kind. this highly customizable theme features a beautiful homepage layout with featured slider on top followed by your product sections. it includes custom widgets for social media, contact info, and content discovery features. it is available in multiple color schemes and all theme options are easily customizable using live theme customizer. 10. hotel hotel is another beautiful woocommerce wordpress theme for hotels, bed & breakfasts, and hospitality service providers. its modern homepage design features large header image with welcome message and a call to action button. you will need woobookings bundle, which allows you to add bookable products like rooms, services, and more. other notable features include custom sidebars, multiple widget ready areas, custom header, background, and more. it is easy to set up and simple to customize. 11. lenscap lenscap is a magazine style wordpress theme with full woocommerce support. suitable for content rich websites that want to add an online store to their website. it features a beautiful homepage layout with a customizable header showcasing your most prominent content and categories. it has templates for product pages with beautiful image galleries. it works out of the box and only includes options you’ll actually use. 12. presence presence is a powerful all-purpose wordpress business theme. it includes several ready-made websites including an ecommerce store that you can install and customize for your needs. it comes in 6 color schemes, multiple blog page layouts, 2 slider styles, full-width and boxed layouts, and more. customizing it is quite easier with live theme customizer and custom theme settings page. 13. highend highend is super-flexible wordpress theme for woocommerce shops. it features a modern design with multiple layouts and styles to choose from or you can create your own with page builder plugin that comes free with the theme. it includes unlimited colors, google fonts, multiple sidebars, custom widgets, social media icons, and more. for theme setup it has 1-click demo importer to guide you. it is translation-ready and can also be used to create multilingual websites. 14. toyshop toyshop is a woocommerce wordpress theme made specifically for children’s stores, toy shops, flower shops, and other websites that need a fun and bright website. it is colorful, fun, and there is even an option to change the footer graphics to match the season. it inherits all the features of its parent theme and adds some of its own. it features custom background, header image, color controls, and multi-column layouts for shop pages. it is extremely easy to set up and can be extended easily with companion extensions. 15. indigo indigo is a modern and stylish wordpress woocommerce theme built with a modular approach. it allows you to easily drag and drop modules to create any page layouts you need. it comes packed with turnkey website designs that you can install with 1-click. each design is fully customizable and includes beautiful shop templates. notable features include contact form page, custom widgets, pricing tables, social media integration, and more. 16. arcade arcade is a woocommerce theme for online gaming stores, electronics, and game accessories stores. inspired by top gaming websites, arcade is designed to showcase a wide range of products on the frontpage in an easy to browse manner. it is easy to extend with the help of storefront extensions bundle which will allow you to add an extensive set of features to your theme, including mega menus, multi-column layouts, sticky cart, reviews, and more. 17. creativo if you are looking for a versatile and multi-purpose woocommerce theme, then you should check out creativo. this super-flexible wordpress themes comes with multiple turnkey websites with 1-click importer. it includes beautiful shop templates, multiple styles and layouts, and ships with premium page builder and slider plugins to create your own layouts if needed. it has a powerful custom theme settings area for a complete guided setup. 18. estore estore is another free woocommerce theme for wordpress. it packs several premium-like features and custom widgets to create a highly professional and modern online store. it is tested for compatibility with top woocommerce extensions. all theme options are neatly organized and allow you to easily build an online store with minimum effort. 19. amaryllis amaryllis is a uniquely designed wordpress theme for woocommerce stores. its modern homepage layout features a full screen background image followed by your product categories, popular products, and other sections of your website. its homepage is fully widgetized which allows you to drag and drop content widgets to set it up. it has 1-click demo importer, live customizer support, and tons of options to make it uniquely yours. 20. idyllic idyllic is a beautifully designed free woocommerce theme for wordpress. it includes several widget-ready areas and an easy to set up homepage layout. it includes full width page template, corporate, contact us, and other page templates to create your own landing pages. it is easy to customize with all theme components neatly placed under customizer. it is translation ready and can also be used to create multilingual websites using polylang. 21. multishop multishop is a powerful wordpress theme for woocommerce shops and online stores. it features a modern design with tons of flexible options for customization. it includes ajax powered product filter, search auto autocomplete feature, unlimited colors, multiple sidebars, page templates and more. it ships with premium page builder and slider plugins as well. 22. cupcake cupcake is a woocommerce wordpress theme for bakeries and cafes. its homepage features a slider followed by your products and other content areas. the header area contains your website logo, phone number, and buttons for search, wishlist, and shopping cart. it includes woocommerce elements to easily display featured, latest, and popular products. for product images it also includes lightbox popup. all theme options are easily customizable with a custom theme options page. 23. hestia hestia is a popular free wordpress theme suitable for woocommerce shops and online stores. it packs many of the features you’ll find in premium wordpress themes including tons of customization options. it comes with unlimited colors, multiple layout options, highly-customizable header, social media icons, multiple navigation menus, and more. it is super easy to use and can be easily customized to give your store a unique look. 24. altitude pro altitude pro is a very professional looking wordpress theme for woocommerce shops. it is built on the rock solid base of the genesis theme framework and features crisp typography and a spacious layout. it includes 7 homepage widget areas to drag and drop sections to your homepage, customizable header, navigation menus, and multiple sidebars. for theme set up, it has a custom theme options page and support for live theme customizer. 25. mesmerize mesmerize is another highly-flexible yet free wordpress theme for woocommerce websites. it features a modern homepage layout which is easy to customize with simple drag and drop. notable features include pre-designed home page, 5 header designs and over 30 ready to use content sections that you can easily customize. due to its flexibility, mesmerize can be used to create any kind of website. 26. solidbox solidbox is another excellent choice for a woocommerce wordpress theme. it is designed to be flexible and can be easily adapted to create any kind of business website. it includes multiple design choices, layouts, header styles, shortcodes, and more. it ships with premium page builder plugin and also supports multilingual plugins. set up is easier with quick 1-click demo importer and custom theme options panel. 27. spencer spencer is an elegantly designed wordpress theme for woocommerce and business websites. it includes a flexible homepage layout with widget ready areas where you can drag and drop widgets. it includes newsletter signup form, unlimited colors, multiple layouts, page builder support, and custom widgets for social media integration. it has a custom theme options panel and tons of customization options in customizer. 28. oceanwp if you are looking for a powerful but free wordpress woocommerce theme, then you’ll love oceanwp. this beautifully designed wordpress theme comes with premium-like features in a free companion plugin. it has tons of customization options in live customizer where you can choose header styles, backgrounds, colors, navigation menus, and more. it works with all popular free page builder plugins and includes templates to create your own landing pages if needed. 29. pepper+ pepper+ is a beautifully designed multi-purpose wordpress theme perfect for woocommerce shops and online stores. it comes with several ready to use websites that you can install with one click. all these designs are fully editable with simple point and click tools. it takes a modular approach to design and includes modules for common website components. you can just drag and drop to add pricing tables, latest products, sliders, contact forms, google maps, and more. 30. storefront storefront is free wordpress woocommerce theme. designed and developed by woocommerce core developers, it features a tight-knit integration with woocommerce and popular woocommerce extensions. it includes several layout and color choices to customize your store. it has a demo data importer, live theme customizer support, and multiple widget ready areas to help you easily set up your woocommerce shop. it also acts as the parent theme for several child themes created specifically by the folks behind woocommerce. 31. the styler the styler is a stylish woocommerce wordpress theme for beauty salons, fashion, and accessories stores. it features a unique modern homepage layout which is fully widgetized and can be setup with simple drag and drop. it also includes custom post types to easily include services, galleries, testimonials, price lists, and your staff profiles. it is beginner friendly and includes a theme settings page for easier set up. 32. maxstore maxstore is another great free woocommerce wordpress theme. its homepage features a highly engaging layout that put your products at front and center. it includes wishlist support, left / right sidebar, footer widget area, custom backgrounds, custom logo, info top bar, search bar, social icons and more. 33. modules modules is a beautiful wordpress theme with full woocommerce support. built with a modular approach to design, it includes modules for common website building components that you can easily add anywhere in your website. it ships with several turnkey designs that you can install with 1-click. it also includes portfolio, video background, google fonts, icon fonts, and more. it is super easy to use and can be easily set up using theme settings page. 34. seneca if you are looking for a clean simple woocommerce theme, then you should check out seneca. it features a simple spacious design with lots of white space that puts your products into focus. it includes a storefront template, separate blog page, product categories widget, and more. all theme options are available on theme settings page and it requires minimal effort to setup. 35. the stylist the stylist is beautifully designed wordpress theme for woocommerce shops and online stores. its homepage features a boxed layout with a large slider at the top followed by your products and content sections. it includes easy to manage sections to add services, team members, testimonials, social media icons, blog section, and more. it offers tons of customization options in live customizer and allows you to mix and match different styles and colors. 36. outlaw outlaw is a creative wordpress woocommerce theme suitable for all kind of shops and online stores. it features a clean and soft layout with lots of space and gorgeous typography. it includes beautiful css animations, advanced product filter, multiple styles and layouts, translation ready, and more. it ships with 1-click installer, premium slider and page builder plugins. 37. shop isle shop isle is an excellent free wordpress theme for woocommerce shops. it features large product images on the homepage which allows you to grab customer attention upon arrival. other notable features include fullscreen image, parallax effects, live customizer support, blog section, and more. it works out of the box and all theme options are quite straightforward and simple. 38. flevr flevr is a modern and stylish woocommerce theme for online shops and stores. it features a fully widgetized homepage layout with a full screen slider on top followed by your featured products. it comes with built-in sections to add testimonials, services, galleries, portfolio, and more. it includes custom widgets for social media and content discovery. it is quite easy to use and you can also use your favorite page builder plugin with it. 39. flora flora is a woocommerce wordpress theme designed specially with flower shops in mind. its beautiful design and color scheme takes inspiration from flowers and uses combination of bold and soft colors throughout. it includes smart shopping cart, mega menu, smart navigation, multiple header styles, sticky headers, and more. it is translation ready and compatible with multilingual plugins. 40. flash need a professional looking but free wordpress theme for your woocommerce store? check out flash. this beautiful multi-purpose wordpress theme is woocommerce ready and comes with beautiful design. it comes with a companion plugin that allows you to easily import demo content into your website. it also includes multiple blog layouts, page builder templates, multiple header styles, multiple color choices, and more. 41. loft loft is a clean and simple woocommerce theme for wordpress with powerful set of features and extensive customization options. its homepage features an optional slider on top, followed by your products or content. it includes two navigation menus and a sticky floating navigation menu on top. it is super-easy to use and includes a custom theme settings page as well as live theme customization support. 42. bento bento is another excellent and free wordpress woocommerce theme that offers the functionality and features rivaling premium themes. this super flexible wordpress theme features a modern homepage that is fully customizable using any page builder plugin. it includes multiple layouts, unlimited colors, layouts for individual posts and pages, custom headers, advanced header styling for posts and pages, and more. it is easy to use and all theme options are managed under customizer with live preview. 43. corner corner is a unique and stylish wordpress theme with full woocommerce support. it features a narrow left sidebar and a wider content area with a minimalist approach to design. it offers full color control, custom widgets for twitter, flickr, and content discovery widgets. it works out of the box and you will find it quite easy to set up with little effort. 44. peak peak is a modern woocommerce wordpress theme featuring beautiful tiled images at the top. tiles are automatically generated by the theme you can also customize the tiles if you need. below that it showcases your top products and featured content. it includes portfolio post type, custom layouts, mega menu, slide-in widgets, and more. for easier set up it includes 1-click demo data importer, a custom theme settings panel, and a drag and drop builder. 45. shopstar shopstar is an elegant and free woocommerce theme suitable for lifestyle, apparel, and fashion stores. it features a minimalist design layout which makes your products pop-out and your visuals more effective. it comes with two navigation menus, beautiful product pages, separate blog page, right sidebar on blog posts, and more. it works with all popular page builder and contact form plugins. all theme options are easily accessible via live theme customizer. 46. balance balance is an excellent woocommerce theme designed to put your brand in the center. perfect for any ecommerce website, balance comes with a modern and stylish homepage layout which allows you to feature your products elegantly. it includes six beautiful templates for shop and product pages. other features include multiple blog styles, 6 color schemes with unlimited customizations, instagram widget, custom fonts and logo. 47. homestore homestore is a woocommerce theme for home decor, household items, and department store websites. it features a clean spacious design that makes your products stand out. it is super-flexible and designed to work effortlessly with minimum effort. it can be further extended with storefront extensions pack which adds awesome features like smart cart, product reviews, multi-column layouts, fonts, custom styling, and more. 48. bellini bellini is another great free wordpress woocommerce theme. it comes with a featured products slider on the top and 4 front-page sections that you can configure from settings. built with bootstrap framework, it is fully responsive and optimized for performance. it has 3 widget ready areas, beautiful shop and product page templates, and supports all top woocommerce plugins. 49. proshop proshop is a child theme of woocommerce storefront theme. it features a stylish urban design which makes it a good fit for accessories, clothing, and sports stores. it inherits all the features of its parent theme and some of its own as well. all theme options are accessible through live customizer and are quite easy to set up. we hope this article helped you find the best woocommerce wordpress themes for your online store. you may also want to see our list of must have wordpress plugins to grow your business. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 377 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 12 commentsleave a reply gabriella says: jul 10, 2019 at 2:04 pm thanks so much for always sharing helpful insights. please can you help recommend a theme for my website; i’m building a multi-vendor site that will have buddypress & ‘my cred’ integrations. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 11, 2019 at 11:25 am most if not all of these themes should handle what you’re wanting it would depend on how you want the site to look which is personal preference. reply sakshi arora says: jun 11, 2019 at 11:15 am hi, i’m looking to build a travel website by incorporating woocommerce in it, which theme would be most suitable for it? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 12, 2019 at 10:18 am that would depend on how you want your site to look, any of these themes should be able to handle what you’re wanting to do. reply ali says: may 25, 2019 at 9:13 pm hi there and thank you so much for the valuable information. please i need help finding the best wp theme for online food order and pickup website. reply wpbeginner support says: may 28, 2019 at 2:02 pm you could take a look at some of our restaurant theme recommendations here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/showcase/best-wordpress-themes-for-restaurants/ reply king says: apr 29, 2019 at 2:30 pm please how did you get the orange color background in your header. what wp plugin can i use to achieve that. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: apr 30, 2019 at 10:08 am we are using a custom theme for our site’s design. you could use a page builder or a plugin like css hero to customize the current theme you are using reply domas says: mar 22, 2019 at 7:11 am hello, so if im using wordprees i can buy woocommercee themes and plug them to wordpress? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 22, 2019 at 9:57 am yes, you can reply mdshakil says: mar 21, 2019 at 7:28 am hey! really your information is very helpful. thanks for your information, reply wpbeginner support says: mar 21, 2019 at 11:49 am glad our article was helpful reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) aweber coupon get 100% off for your first month with aweber. start your first month for free. designevo coupon get 25% off on designevo premium logo making service. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.