skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about 49 blog & content ideas for when you have a mental block by jamie if you want your blog to be popular and get loads of free traffic from google & social networks, it’s essential to create a steady stream of interesting and compelling blog posts. doing this week after week, however, can seem like a challenge. many bloggers start off with boundless enthusiasm but then feel like they are running out of blogging topics after a few months. there are, however, many sources from which you can draw inspiration. no matter what your topic, the list of topics you can blog about is virtually endless. the reason for this is that there are always new ideas, news and developments coming out in every field. in this article, we’ll be looking at some of the best ways to come up with great blog ideas. start a money making blog today - free email course i'll show you how to start a blog in just 7 days in this free email course, i will show you how to create a blog easily. - learn to set up your blog in minutes - make your first dollar with your blog - attract your first readers sign up - start your journey name email for me, content is the main way i make money from blogging. content brings traffic to my site, and then i monetize that content with affiliate offers or display ads. here’s an infographic with some cool blog and content ideas for when you have brain freeze or a mental block. we’ve all been there. sitting in front of your computer screen thinking..“now what do i create now?” have a look through some of my content ideas to help you gain more traffic to your website through organic, referral links and social sources. feel free to add any more ideas in the comments section below. if you are yet to start a blog, then why not head over too my easy to follow tutorial on how to start a blog, and get up and running in just 30 mins. here’s the list of urls of content examples and blog post ideas that are mentioned in the graphic above. 1. curation compile a top ten best / favourite blog posts from other people’s blogs. live example: resource tools for web designers 2. best of twitter come up with the top 25 or 50 people to follow on twitter within your niche. bring attention to influencers in your industry and other colleagues, friends or accounts you discover that are sharing valuable content. it’s a great resource for your followers and it’s a great way to get people to notice you and many are even likely to reciprocate. live example: mahifx top forex twitter list 3. group brainstorm ask people for ideas. ask for their opinion on what you could create. people to ask – offline friends / collegues – online peers – blogger friends – work contacts live example: 27 killer strategies for brainstorming blog post ideas 4. interview someone authoritative in your niche ask a handful of questions to someone that is interesting / authoritative within your niche. it doesn’t have to be face to face. it could be via skype or email. the great thing is you don’t have to write it yourself. the interviewee creates the content for you. this is also a good relationship building exercise. live example: interview with neil patel 5. ask questions on reddit get ideas from sub-reddits within the niche your website resides. you can do this by looking to see – what people are talking about – what they are sharing – ask the questions. live example: siegemedia post on subreddits 6. group interviews ask a handful of people a couple of questions ( interesting ones that people want to hear ) and create a group interview post. live example: white hat link building expert round up 7. guest posts invite well respected bloggers to write on your site. this way they get access to your audience and you have a great article on your site for free. contact the smaller blogs that could do with the exposure and invite them to guest post on your site. live example: guest post example on readwrite 8. create a resource create a post, infographic or video that people will find useful. if your website is in the photography niche, why not create an instagram tips infographic. create resources that people find useful and you have a web asset that will always attract traffic. live example: photoshop cheat sheet 9. create a case study cover an experiment you are testing with your blog or audience. or you could write about a success or failure that you’ve experienced within your niche. live example: case study on web traffic 10. review a service / product / experience on your site give your opinion on a product or service you use. you can sometimes earn money if there is an affiliate program for that product. writing reviews is a wonderful way to let companies know exactly what you think of them, either good or bad. it’s also a great way to share with your audience the products that you rate. live example: sendible review you can also create product list reviews like this example. choose 10 products on amazon in a particular niche relevant to your site and write a mini review on each item. this is like a roundup post where you can earn money from sending people to amazon.com. if they buy anything, you then get commission from amazon. 11. share your successes look back at some of your most successful posts and why they did well. live example: successful blogging post 12. post someone else’s infographic look on sites like visual.ly for inspirational infographics and write about them. or you can do a google search for infographics that focus on subjects that cross over into your niche. live example: infographic placement example 13. look in your blog archives repurpose an old list article into a slideshare or infographic. update an old blog post with new information. live example: repurpose your content 14. host a competiton or giveaway partner with a business to offer prizes for your readers through competitions or cool stuff like games and quizzes. live example: fun online quiz / competition giveaways 15. create a glossary what are the less well known technical terms or acronyms in your niche. helpful resource for novices are always worth doing and will attract traffic. live example: content marketing glossary 16. name recognition what the general election can teach you about content marketing. what the super bowl can teach us about keeping fit. live example: henry ford 17. create a spotify playlist share your favourite music with your readers. live example: spotify playlists 18. be interviewed by your readers invite your readers to submit questions about you or your blog and answer them. live example: ama 19. look for outdated content there’s so much information out there on the internet that is out of date. look for out dated content in your vertical and update it. check out this handy tool from green lane seo! 20. compile useful resources a compilation of useful resources regarding your industry can create a one-stop shop for your customer base. if your audience has to come through your site or blog to access these resources, they may end up staying for a bit of a read and a bit of a shop. live example: example of a useful online resource 21. start a weekly blog roundup post share the top 10 articles you think your readers will enjoy. put the spotlight on other people in your vertical. build up relationships with other bloggers. live example: upcity.com 22. analyze google trends check what’s hot, what people are searching for to get some ideas on creating content for your blog. live example:ways to use google trends 23. publish an e-book and promote it on your blog promoting your own ebooks on your blog can be a great way to make money, build an email list and showcase your knowledge. live example: viperchill ebook 24. create a custom 404 page a useful 404 page will help your visitors find their way around your site if they accidentally end up on the wrong page. alternatively a creative or fun 404 page can be a great way to get your name out there. live example: www.404notfound.fr/ 25. write about common misconceptions in your niche crush those myths and let your readers know the truth. live example: common blogging myths 26. showcase a small business, artist, or writer take some time out to interview or review a small business and help them get some attention live example: small biz review 27. start a poll or survey use your audience to create new content ideas and data. use the data for follow up articles and infographics. live example: http://www.orbitmedia.com/blog/blogger-analysis/ 28. create a monthly blog traffic or income report use your audience to create new content ideas and data. use the data for follow up articles and infographics. live example: http://www.orbitmedia.com/blog/blogger-analysis/ 29. make predictions look at some of the big changes that might happen in your niche 12 months or 5 years from now. live example: http://girllostinthecity.com/2015/01/blogging-reflections-4-predictions/ 30. create a listicles a listicle is an article in the form of a list; listicles are heavily used by websites such as buzzfeed and are incredibly popular due to the bitesize nature of the information shared. an example of their efficacy is you, reading this listicle, right now. when you probably should be working instead. live example: http://www.buzzfeed.com/nalavezos/24-signs-you-belong-in-a-different-time-period-xlbs 31. create seasonal content creating the right content at the right time can get you a ton of attention. whether it’s valentine’s day, christmas, or halloween, you can create holiday themed content that can get a ton of attention over a short period of time (and every year after). live example: http://www.bonfire-night-safety.co.uk/ 32. tell people about your failures look back at some of your decisions and why they didn’t turn out as you hoped. live example: why my first blog failed 33. things to do before you die lists create a list with descriptions and photos of the following ideas… – 25 restaurants to eat at before you kick the bucket. – 50 cities you have to go to before you’re old. – 100 things you have to buy before you die. live example: http://bucketlistjourney.net/my-bucket-list/ 34. create an a to z blog post or infographic write an a to z post about something within your niche. example: a to z of photography tips, a to z on the best universities in the world. live example: conversion rate optimization a to z graphic 35. create a profile on an influential figure is there someone in your niche you admire? write a profile on them detailing who they are, what they do, why you love them, and where your readers can learn more. live example: http://www.daveendsor.com/quotable-rand-fishkin/ 36. create a quiz use a quiz-building application like online quiz creator, and make your next post into a game for your readers. check out this handy tool for creating quizzes http://www.onlinequizcreator.com 37. life hacks compile the best life hacks within your niche. people love this kind of content and will link to and share. live example: student life hacks 38. video workshops if you have something valuable to offer within your niche then why not share some of your training and consulting material with your readers via a live online workshop or pre-recorded video. live example: https://blog.udemy.com/how-to-make-a-great-tutorial-video/ 39. use quora for content ideas find questions people are asking in your niche or industry and try to answer them on your own blog. create a short answer on quora with a link through to the full answer on your blog. 40. build a tool your tool doesn’t have to be an expensive piece of software. it could be something simple that helps people speed up a common task. ideas for tools – calculators – widgets – excel docs – templates live example: embed code generator 41. create a white paper a white paper is a detailed guide on a particular subject. a whitepaper is a great way to establish your credibility as an expert and positioning you as the perfect person to solve their problems. live example: white paper samples 42. the best books in your niche there’s a lot of great books around that people aren’t aware of. information seems to be confined to the internet. open peoples’ eyes to the amazing literature out there and create a 10 best books in (your niche). live example: top ten irish novels 43. instructographics these are infographics that teach you how to do something. you might create a 10-step process to create a particular tool or product or digital media such as a podcast. it’ll help if the thing you are teaching your audience to build is something interesting or cool. live example: how to build a light saber 44. day in the life of… this could be in the form of a blog post with animated gifs to document in a funny way the day in the life of any given person or job. you could create a post about the day in the life of a designer or anything that is realted to your niche. live example: day in the life of a forex trader 45. find dead content and re-create find content that is no longer on the web and re-create & publish it on your own site. update an old blog post with new information. 46. newsjacking instead of trying to cover news first, see if you can take advantage of currently hot topics through newsjacking. this is the practice of looking for new & upcoming stories then capitalizing on them by writing up a blog post on the topic. live example: check out the post on sitebeginner on newsjacking to fully understand this content idea. 47. google maps mashups google maps is a great tool, and you can use it to attract links if you get it in front of the right audience. a great idea would be to map out all the industry events taking place this year. 48. create an ultimate guide ultimate guides are an amazing way to not only attract traffic to your website via search engines but also to establish yourself as an authority in your niche. why not create an ultimate guide to something within your industry. if you’re good at excel spreadsheets then why not create an ultimate guide on using excel for small businesses. you can then put this on your website as a free download or charge people $10 for it. teach people the tricks of your trade. resources like this will only bring good things to your business or blog. this can be in the form of new customers or new visitors to your website. 49. call someone out now i’m not saying for you to be nasty with this. i’m talking about constructive criticism of a blog, website, person or a service. if you have a strong argument about something and you can back-up your feelings with real facts and figures, then go for it. avoid random rantings and abusive language. the following two tabs change content below. bio latest posts jamie my name is jamie spencer and i have spent the past 5 years building money making blogs. after growing tired of the 9-5, commuting and never seeing my family i decided that i wanted to make some changes and launched my first blog. since then i have launched lots of successful niche blogs and after selling my survivalist blog i decided to teach other people how to do the same. latest posts by jamie (see all) interview – cameron james from anymail finder - march 26, 2020 the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews - march 25, 2020 how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old - march 19, 2020 categories blogging post navigation how to get a free ssl/tls certificate for a website the perfect twitter profile cheat sheet 6 thoughts on “49 blog & content ideas for when you have a mental block” pratigya bansal september 12, 2018 at 4:32 pm | reply these are the best ideas i have ever read. what a great combination!! as a starter, i was so confused but now i think i can work better.. and how simply you have defined each one of them…. thankful to you <3 irena johnson july 5, 2018 at 9:24 am | reply thanks for a great selection of ideas! the idea of creating a glossary i liked most of all. also, i often create faqs on different topics. it perfectly helps not only to study the niche but also to create useful and interesting content for my users. pooja gupta february 14, 2017 at 7:48 am | reply this is really great!! thanks for sharing these fantastic ideas and now i got lots of new ideas for the blogging. thank you so much for sharing jamie! jenna brandon december 21, 2016 at 1:18 pm | reply thanks for so many fantastic ideas in one place, jamie! i usually get inspired by friends and competitors, but thank you for mentioning reddit! will definitely try that. thanks again for all the hard work! regards, jenna norita che omar april 19, 2016 at 2:35 am | reply oh wow!!! this is fantastic! so many new ideas which i didn’t know. i am new with blogging but really like to get into it more. this will definitely clear my mental block. thank you so much for sharing jamie! warm regards, norita drazen prastalo march 18, 2016 at 11:45 am | reply hey jamie, wow, what a list :) i actually find your infographic idea really smart, a nice way to present content and ideas with screenshots, proves that infographic don’t have to be complicated to work. you’ve got a new fan here, keep it going :) cheers, drazen leave a comment cancel reply commentname email save my name and email in this browser for the next time i comment. recent posts interview – cameron james from anymail finder the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old how to write a blog post – a guide for new & experienced bloggers best social media management tools 2020 categories amazon fba blog traffic blogging business cheat sheets content marketing design tips email marketing graphic design interviews make money online marketing photography questions social tech buying guides web development website cms wordpress best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub