skip to content search toggle menu wine blog #7wordwinereview reviews wine racks wine coolers wine aerator what makes the lidl gin so darned popular 10 most popular champagne brands internationally – most are delicious a review of jay z’s ace of spades champagne best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktails at home best whiskey glasses 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best red wine glasses of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best rhubarb gin: brands that will turn even rhubarb haters best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it? 5 best toffee vodka brands that makes you very kissable | 2020 champagne gin non-alcoholic wine vodka close menu home > reviews / vodka / wine blog 5 best toffee vodka brands that makes you very kissable | 2020 published date 3rd february 2020 last modified date 17th march 2020 categories reviews / vodka / wine blog author vim 30shares sharetweet before we even get into talking about toffee vodka, ask yourself — do you like the taste of toffee? what about vodka? do you like, the taste? how about the light, airy feeling it gives you? now, ask yourself this — are you tired of having to make the painful decision between the two? we’ve got good news for you, that’s a factor no more. enter toffee vodka. or should i say the best toffee vodka. now, you can now buy a flavoured vodka that tastes just like toffee. sometimes you need to switch things up from your typical night-out-with-the-boys-bottle-of-smirnoff that leaves you with that “what-was-i-thinking” -scrunched-up face (we all try to avoid this face at all costs – it says “i picked a bad vodka, and on top of that, i can’t even handle my choice”) – not to mention, a bad-tasting vodka leaves you with that horrific after taste that’s likely to put a sour note on the rest of your night. one of the biggest issues with vodka is that there are just too many brands to choose from. even worse, each brand has what seems like an infinite number of flavours. let’s face it – you don’t want to be that person who brings the generic peach flavored bottle of vodka to the party. why not mix up your go-to-choice and boost your rep amongst your pals? and if you really can’t be bothered to go shopping, then by all means have a go at making homemade toffee vodka. it’s actually quite simple. our suggestion — spice it up with a bit with toffee flavored vodka. we’re here to make that transition even easier. here are some of our top toffee vodka options you need to look into. we recommend trying them as soon as possible! best toffee vodka vodka alcohol % bottle size price on amazon thunder toffee vodka 29.9% 700 ml check latest price tofka toffee vodka 29.9% 700 ml check latest price v gallery premium toffee fudge flavored vodka spirit drink 21% 500 ml check latest price kin toffee vodka 20.3% 500 ml check latest price red square toffee vodka 20% 700 ml check latest price thunder toffee vodka – best toffee vodka “thunder! woaaaaaaah! thunder!” everybody loves that classic ac/dc song – maybe it’s the first thing that popped into your head when you read the name of this vodka. we can’t blame you, not just because it’s a catchy song, but because the satisfaction you get from listening to that song is pretty comparable to the satisfaction that comes with the smooth sweet toffee syrup that is followed by the heat of the pure triple distilled vodka. with zero additives and zero preservatives, it’s one of the healthier options. this vodka is loaded with awards to back up the brand as well. we’re talking mostly about the highly acclaimed spirit business awards where they won gold in 2009, 2010, and 2011. and if you think that’s a lot, hold on to your cocktail, they went ahead and won the gold great taste award in 2012! the alcohol percentage is 29.9%, guaranteeing a good night out with the crew if you’re not overly-cautious, so watch out! this vodka is best stored in a cool dark place, like your fridge or liquor cabinet if you have one. it’s best served cold as a shot, over ice, or in a cocktail! next time you make that weekend trip to the beach be sure to check out the thunder toffee vodka as an option for your ice-cold cocktail! check out a few recipes for mixed drinks you can use if you do decide to purchase this vodka. check latest price toffee vodka cocktails: cloud nine ingredients: 1 shot of thunder toffee vodka – 1 shot of irish cream liqueur – 2 scoops of vanilla or chocolate ice cream method: muddle all of the ingredients and serve in a sling with cubed ice. garnish with a crumbled biscuit and a cherry or two. thai thunder ingredients: thunder toffee vodka 50 ml – lemon juice 10 ml – sugar syrup 1 bar spoon – mango puree 5 ml – coriander leaves 12/15 – top off with club soda – lime wedge and coriander leaf for garnish method: add all of the ingredients into a collins or high ball glass. muddle the ingredients and add in ice cubes. top off with the club soda and churn for a minute or so. add lime wedge or coriander leaf garnish to finish. tofka toffee vodka – delicious toffee vodka this vodka is basically the same price as the thunder brand for 700ml. this product has a very similar taste as the other toffee vodka brands, but what separates it from the rest is the fact that you are supposed to “shake the storm” — which is basically just shaking the bottle before serving it as a shot, over ice, or even with – get this –apple juice. while in the process of shaking the storm though, we advise you look down at the bottle. you can see the contents swirling around almost causing a creamy, delicious, whirlwind effect. this vodka is perfectly suitable for vegetarians and contains a 29.9 alcohol percentage. but, we can’t end this review before talking about bottle – it’s a good-looking design and definitely a nice piece that can be added to anybody’s collection before (or after) consumption. this vodka is meant to be a sipping liqueur, so be read to savor it slowly. this is definitely one of the more popular toffee vodkas on this list with nothing but great reviews on it. here are three unique drinks you can make using this product! check latest price toffee vodka cocktails: tofka coffee ingredients: 35 ml tofka – 15 ml dark rum – 1 espresso shot – 25 ml milk method: shake all of the ingredients together with ice cubes. strain into a sling or latte glass and garnish with coffee beans. this drink is very similar to an espresso martini! and luckily tastes a whole lot better than their marketing video: banshee ingredients: 30 ml tofka – top off with ginger beer/ale – squeeze of lime method: fill up a glass with ice cubes, add the tofka and top it off with ginger beer. add a squeeze of lime or garnish. golden champagne ingredients: 30 ml tofka – top off with champagne or prosecco method: add the tofka to a flute glass and top off with champagne or prosecco. v gallery premium toffee fudge flavored vodka spirit drink – premium toffee vodka personally, we have to admit we favour this bottle design out of the bunch – but luckily, you are paying for quality of the liquid, not just the bottle, when it comes to this vodka. with a small loan of a million dollars, you can own 2 bottles of this delicious vodka. okay, okay, we’re only joking. it’s not that much, however, that is still significantly more money compared to the previous two vodkas if you factor in bottle size. this drink is made from the finest 5x distilled italian vodka. winning the prestigious iwsc gold outstanding medal in 2015 cemented this vodka as one of the best toffee vodkas in the market. this is also another vodka that is best served chilled or over ice. this vodka balances the intense and indulgent taste of toffee with the velvety smoothness of premium fudge (we’re drooling over here). its sweet-but-not-overpowering taste complements its warming quality. the perfect time to crack this bad boy open is right after a delicious dinner with the family that leaves your sweet tooth tingling for some dessert. if you’re willing to boost your budget a bit and are looking for a premier toffee vodka, this may just be the option you’re looking for! check latest price kin toffee vodka – pricey toffee vodka the second most expensive vodka on this list would be the kin toffee vodka. even though it’s a 500 ml bottle, this vodka has a lot to offer! unlike the previous vodka products, this bottle contains a unique blend of vodka and caramel. it still holds its toffee taste, which is primarily what you’re looking for, but the caramel is quite prevalent and adds that perfect amount of sweetness to the vodka. it’s best served at room temperature or chilled with ice cubes in a glass. this vodka is extremely smooth and super easy to drink, so be extra careful when consuming it so that you don’t go overboard. the kin makes a perfect christmas or even birthday gift to your fellow vodka drinking friends and family! here are some amazing drinks and dishes you can try if you do decide to go with this product! check latest price toffee vodka cocktails: toffee apple cocktail ingredients: 50 ml kin toffee vodka – 50 ml apple juice – 25 ml lemon juice – apple slice method: first you pour the kin toffee vodka into a glass. (ice cubes are optional) then top off the glass with the apple juice and lemon juice in either order. add an apple slice as a garnish and voila! banoffee cocktail ingredients: 50 ml kin toffee vodka – 50 ml banana liqueur – 10 ml single cream – ¼ banana method: this drink is quite simple to make as all you have to do is pour all four products into a blender and blend them together to make a nice cocktail/smoothie hybrid! kin toffee cheesecake ingredients: 170g plain digestive biscuits crushed – 25g melted butter – 180g cream cheese – 1 egg yolk – 100g caster sugar – 150 ml lightly whipped cream – 75 ml kin toffee vodka – 1 leaf gelatine – squeeze of lemon juice method: crush the biscuits and mix with the melted butter then line a 7-8″ flan tin/dish. soak the gelatine leaf for 5 minutes in cold water – squeeze then melt in 10 ml water over a gentle heat. beat the cream cheese, caster sugar and egg together. fold in the cream, add the kin, lemon juice and gelatine and fold until smooth.pour onto the biscuit base and place in the fridge to set – preferably overnight. could be topped with apricots or mango – which go very well with the flavors! red square toffee vodka – inexpensive toffee vodka finally, we’re at our last vodka on the list. it’s a gem and it’s 70cl that’s right, for a small amount of money you can indulge yourself into this delicious creamy toffee vodka with a light caramel finish. just like the kin brand, this vodka also has that caramel blend to it that we know our sweet-tooth-drinkers will love. made with 7 times distilled, 100 percent grain vodka red square is perfectly balanced to drink straight with a mixer or in your favorite cocktail! this vodka has a much lower alcohol percentage volume than some of the other products on this list coming in at 20%. it is indeed suitable for vegetarians and is best served at room temperature. one famous drink that this specific vodka is known for is the delicious toffee and cola cocktail. the ingredients? get together 25 ml of red square toffee vodka, cola, a wedge of a lime, and ice! first, add 25 ml of the vodka to your glass only to be followed by the cola. garnish with a wedge of lime, top off with ice and voila! you’re on your way to becoming your friends and families go to drink mixer! this vodka’s low alcohol percentage and smooth taste make it extremely easy to drink and may just become your next favourite alcoholic beverage! check latest price bottom line: all this talk about toffee and dessert has got us pretty hungry for a sweet fix. what’s great about this vodka? it’s great for cooking and baking. we’re talking delicious treats, too. think a toffee cheesecake using the kin vodka, or what about a bowl of ice cream topped with the red square vodka. all five of the options we’ve reviewed here today are quality products with very distinct qualities that distinguish themselves from the others. whether it be the thunders long list of awards, the tofkas unique “shake the storm” feature that lets you see the different ingredients being mixed together, or the v gallery with its pristine bottle design that would look good on just about any kitchen shelf or liquor cabinet in the world. don’t forget about the kin with its unique blend of toffee and caramel, or the red square with its surprisingly low alcohol percentage compared to the other four! you’ve got the top five best toffee vodkas on the market – now it’s up to you to decide which best complements your palette? good luck with your decision – we envy your choice! 30shares sharetweet related posts fine wine news / wine blog investment firm twelve by seventy five is not 12×75 reviews / wine blog a review of freixenet prosecco wine blog cru bourgeois more like i haven’t a clue bourgeois prev post wine lovers get pranked with non alcoholic wine next post why do we celebrate with champagne about 12×75.com 12×75 is a light hearted, comical wine blog which focuses on wine news, reviews, food & interviews with leading figures in the world of wine. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. articles about twelve by seventy five ltd (who have nothing to do with 12×75.com) will the real 12×75 please stand up, please stand up investment firm twelve by seventy five is not 12×75 recent posts best non alcoholic gin 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews most shared posts best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it?... being a native californian but living in nyc, i think i&# 28 shares best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktai... cocktail shakers are used for a variety of reasons in a v 35 shares the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s gu... what is it about opening wine that can sometimes be so an 33 shares interviews stephen browett – farr vintners doug rumsam – bordeaux index mark schuringa – ditton wine traders adon kumar – wine searcher judy leissner – grace vineyard peter lunzer – lunzer investments james miles – liv ex mark bedini – fine+rare david elghanayan – vanquish benjamin wallace – the billionaire’s vinegar paula & stacey golding – premier cru fine wine investments henri lurton – chateau brane-cantenac nigel jagger – octavian simon berry – berry bros. & rudd aline baly – chateau coutet adam brett-smith – corney & barrow maximilian riedel – riedel tony laithwaite – laithwaite’s wine pages about us contact us subscribe #7wordwinereview power… sitemap for great london seo services click away. ©2020 back to top search search close