wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 5 best wordpress poll plugins compared (2020) 5 best wordpress poll plugins compared (2020) last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 204 shares share tweet share pin are you looking for the best wordpress poll plugins for your site? online polls are highly engaging and can be used to boost user engagement on your website. in this article, we will compare the best wordpress poll plugins. what to look for in a wordpress poll plugin? online polls offer a fun and easy way to keep your audience engaged. that’s why popular websites like buzzfeed regularly use them to create viral content and increase the time users spend on their website. there are many wordpress poll plugins that can help you add online polls to your website. here are a few things we will be looking for in a wordpress poll plugin: it should be easy to use, so that you can quickly create polls polls should look nice and can be easily added anywhere including posts, pages, or sidebar widgets your poll plugin should be fast and shouldn’t affect website speed or user experience should be able to display poll results with graphs and charts that being said, let’s take a look at the best wordpress poll plugins and how they stack up against each other. 1. wpforms wpforms is the best wordpress contact form plugin, and their pro plan includes a powerful surveys and polls addon. it allows you to easily create online polls, embed them anywhere on your site, and display results with beautiful charts. you can drag and drop multiple form fields allowing users to select multiple or single answers. wpforms allows you to use images as poll choice along with text. poll results can be displayed automatically on the same page after getting the vote from users. you can also show poll results anywhere on your site. wpforms offers you the ability to export poll results for a later date to include in your powerpoint presentation or other offline modes. for detailed instructions, see our article on how to create an interactive poll in wordpress. 2. yop poll yop poll is a wordpress plugin that allows you to add online polls and surveys to your website. it is free and easy to install in wordpress. you can schedule polls, display poll on multiple pages, show poll results in numbers and percentages, reset poll anytime, and more. it helps in limiting the poll to guest / registered users and block users by cookie, ip or username. yop poll can display results in different styles. their archive feature allows you to show previous poll results sorted by the start and end date of the poll. 3. wp-polls wp-polls is a simple, easy, and free poll solution for your wordpress site. it allows you to add online polls in your wordpress pages, posts, and widget areas. users can select multiple options in the poll. wp-polls automatically shows results after the users select their choices. if you want to customize the look of your poll and know a little coding, then you can change the theme and add custom css style to your poll. 4. polldaddy polls and ratings polldaddy polls and ratings is another popular wordpress polls plugin. it allows you to create and manage polls from your wordpress dashboard. you can create a multiple choice poll, set a close date for the poll, display / hide poll results on your site, customize your poll styling, and more. polldaddy allows you to embed your polls on other wordpress sites. it prevents multiple responses from same users with basic ip filtering. it is a free plugin. however, you’ll need a wordpress.com account to generate an api key. 5. responsive poll responsive poll is another wordpress poll plugin. it allows you to create simple polls on your site. you can add multiple polls on same page, create multiple choice polls, show poll results with animation effects, set the start and end date for the poll, and more. responsive poll allows you to add an image for each option in your poll. it also lets you clone the poll and create duplicate polls. the free version of the plugin is quite limited in terms of features. we hope this article helped you find the best wordpress poll plugins to use on your website. you may also want to see our expert pick of the best wordpress survey plugins to create online surveys on your site. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 204 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to start your own podcast (step by step) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 13 commentsleave a reply avram says: mar 14, 2020 at 4:51 pm do any of these polling plug in’s allow you to use images as the polling question? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 16, 2020 at 11:45 am wpforms does have an option to use images, for the other plugins you would want to reach out to the individual plugins for their current capabilities. reply ewsdf says: jan 30, 2019 at 6:43 am wpforms isn’t even for polls. stop scamming reply wpbeginner support says: jan 30, 2019 at 11:20 am we’re not, wpforms can handle polls and we explain how to set it up in our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-create-an-interactive-poll-in-wordpress-step-by-step/ reply lynne says: aug 23, 2018 at 11:42 am hi – i’m building a site for an awards ceremony too, but need to be able to link through to the biog pages for each of the potential winners from within the poll options (e.g. their name links to their biog). is that possible with any of these? many thanks in advance, lynne reply chiemezie john duru says: sep 17, 2018 at 2:34 pm hi lynne, i am actually looking up on building an award hosting site. have you choosed ur best poll plug-in. reply nicci fletcher says: jul 19, 2018 at 1:53 am thank you for an interesting and very timely comparison. i want to organise an annual awards ceremony on my wp website. people would be nominated for an award and their details would be posted in that section of the website. visitors would vote for the different nominees and the winners would be the people with the most votes. do any of the above plugins have this functionality? if not, can you suggest some options for me? many thanks in advance. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 19, 2018 at 3:29 pm hi nicci, seems like wpforms would be the perfect tool for that. reply nicci fletcher says: jul 20, 2018 at 1:40 am many thanks. i already have wp forms installed so i will dig deeper into how it works. reply tim strawn says: jun 26, 2018 at 11:19 am was asking webmaster to install poll daddy and they say there’s a lot to do to get this plugin online like setting up api credentials etc. and would take 2 1/2 work to complete so, i’m thinking wpforms at this point. is that going to be complicated and time consuming for an experienced web person to install on my wp site? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 27, 2018 at 10:12 pm hi tim, wpforms works on your website and you can set it up quickly. the only key you will need is your license key which gives you access to updates. reply sandeep singh says: jun 9, 2018 at 9:33 am hello sir, i see a banner below your youtube video you share saying- subscribe to wpbegginers and a subscribe button. how can i add this like you in my blog? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 11, 2018 at 11:11 am hi sandeep, please see our tutorial on how to add youtube subscribe button to videos in wordpress. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.