skip to content search toggle menu wine blog #7wordwinereview reviews wine racks wine coolers wine aerator what makes the lidl gin so darned popular 10 most popular champagne brands internationally – most are delicious a review of jay z’s ace of spades champagne best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktails at home best whiskey glasses 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best red wine glasses of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best rhubarb gin: brands that will turn even rhubarb haters best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it? 5 best toffee vodka brands that makes you very kissable | 2020 champagne gin non-alcoholic wine vodka close menu home > gin / reviews best rhubarb gin: brands that will turn even rhubarb haters published date 23rd april 2018 last modified date 17th march 2020 categories gin / reviews author vim 26shares sharetweet there are a lot of distinct types of gin out there in the world. from brand to style, there’s tons to choose from. you’ve got the london dry, plymouth, new wave, old wave, middle aged wave, (okay those last two were made up, but you get the point). today, we are here to talk about the infamous rhubarb gin, and not just any old bottles; but the best rhubarb gins on the market today! never had it? you’re missing out. the rhubarb plant was cultivated for medicinal purposes dating back to 2700 bc, and ironically, still hasn’t strayed too far from its original use in several types of alcohols. the main one? you guessed it, gin! we’re here to give you little rundown on rhubarb gin. curious about what it is? want to know what makes it different? we’ve got you covered. first things first, we’ve outlined our favorite rhubarb gins of 2018 in hopes that you find your new favorite drink. and don’t even worry about what glasses to pour your drinks into; we’ve got you covered on our guide to the best gin glasses around as well as the best tonic water. that’s right – we’e thought of everything. best rhubarb gins rhubarb gin name bottle size alcohol content see price on amazon edinburgh gin rhubarb and ginger 20cl 20% check price slingsby rhubarb flavored gin 70cl 40% check price warner edwards distillery victoria’s rhubarb gin 70cl 40% check price edinburgh gin rhubarb and ginger liqueur 50 cl 50cl 20% check price whitley neill rhubarb and ginger gin 70cl 43% check price edinburgh gin rhubarb and ginger 20 cl best rhubarb and ginger gin ** in this corner coming for 20 cl we’ve got the edinburgh gin rhubarb and gingerrrrrrr! this gin is a knockout specialist with its 20 percent alcohol volume and the unique delicate rose color that basically just screams, “buy me!” the smell of rhubarb mixed with the warm ginger aftertaste mesh perfectly together when drinking at the dinner table. speaking of dinner, this gin is indeed suitable for vegetarians, which is perfect after a long day of mowing the lawn. think about it, you can sit down to have a nice cold drink that goes perfectly with all that grass you’re about to eat! okay, okay, all joking aside, this gin goes well with tonic, soda, or lemonade. excellent with cocktails, champagne, or simply over ice! this product is distilled in small batches in the heart of scotland, combining crystal clear edinburgh gin and freshly picked elderflowers. will this be your next favorite rhubarb gin? you’ll have to try it to find out! check latest price three recipes we found for you using this gin! rhubarb and ginger gin fizz ingredients: 25 ml edinburgh gin’s rhubarb and ginger liqueur – 100 ml prosecco method: add the rhubarb and ginger liqueur to a chilled champagne flute or coupette. top with prosecco and serve. elderflower coupe ingredients: 25 ml edinburgh gin – 15 ml edinburgh gin’s elderflower liqueur – 10 ml dry vermouth – 15 ml fresh lemon juice method: shake all ingredients with ice. strain into a coupe glass. garnish with lemon and elderflowers when in season. sunny intervals ingredients: 40 ml edinburgh gin – 20 ml edinburgh gin’s elderflower liqueur – 20 ml freshly squeezed orange juice – 20 ml lemon juice – 10 ml sugar syrup method: add all the ingredients to a tall glass and stir. fill the glass with ice and add a splash of tonic water. garnish with an orange twist! slingsby rhubarb flavored gin most interesting bottle of rhubarb gin you are definitely not putting your money where your mouth is when it comes to the slingsby gin. this gin is cheaper than the edinburgh by volume! this limited-edition rhubarb gin is made in yorkshire with locally sourced botanicals and harrogate aquifer water. the taste has an initial sweetness of rhubarb and raspberry, followed by a bitter tang of the pink grapefruit citrus base. a tart rhubarb finish rounds off the drink, leaving an unforgettable flavor in your mouth that makes you excited to pour a second and third glass. this gin goes great with tonic and a slice of pink grapefruit and is best stored in a cool dark place and served at room temperature. but here’s the best part — if the edinburgh was a knockout specialist, then the slingsby is basically mike tyson. standing at 40 percent alcohol volume, this gin is designed to essentially either make or break you as a person. if you are a fan of gin, you must try this product immediately! check latest price four recipes we found for you using this gin: tweet sour here’s a fun little backstory and description of this specific recipe! the tweet sour was named after the famous harrogate spa water well. it is a vibrant slingsby twist on the classic gin sour. the sumptuous blue hue from the crème de violette looks amazing when complimented by a vibrant lemon twist! ingredients: 40 ml slingsby gin – 20 ml sugar syrup – 20 ml fresh lemon juice – 25 ml egg white – 5 ml crème de violette – 1 dash aromatic bitters method: dry shake thoroughly, then wet shake before straining. serve in a coupette glass and garnish with a lemon twist and edible flowers. slingsby sling ingredients: 40 ml slingsby gin – 20 ml fresh lemon juice – 15 ml cherry brandy – 15 ml triple sec – 5 ml yellow chartreuse – 2 dashes aromatic bitters – 80 ml pineapple juice – 10 ml grenadine method: serve in a short glass with no ice and bitters flourish, this uses higher quality ingredients to complement the gin and harks back to the classic sling serve. wet and dry shake. slingsby fizz ingredients: 40 ml slingsby gin – 60 ml pink grapefruit juice – 10 ml elderflower syrup – 20 ml sugar syrup – top up with 30 ml soda water method: serve over ice in a highball and garnish with a fresh grapefruit wedge and tarragon sprigs, this is a summery twist on a traditional tom collins. distiller’s garden ingredients: 25 ml slingsby gin – 50 ml cloudy apple juice – 25 ml lemon juice – 12.5 ml rosemary syrup method: shake and strain into a rocks glass with an ice ball. garnish with spiralized apple and rosemary. warner edwards distillery victoria’s rhubarb gin best warner edwards rhubarb gin we’ve got another great gin on the list for you with a price that you just can’t pass up. this gin is the cheapest liquid on the list so far. this gin won the 2015 silver medal award from the international wine and spirits competition for its deep rhubarb flavor that hits almost every taste bud on your tongue. it’s a delicious and wonderful choice for family occasions and holidays. this drink is served best as a martini with no vermouth and just a dash of orange and mandarin bitters. other options could be as a g&t or simply with ginger ale! going toe to toe with the slingsby, it has a 40 percent alcohol, which mixed with its smooth finish, makes it dangerous to drink. so, if you like living life on the edge, this may just be the perfect rhubarb gin for you! check latest price four recipes we found for you using this gin! rhubarb and juliet ingredients: 50 ml warner edwards victoria’s rhubarb gin – 200 ml fentiman’s rose lemonade – a fresh strawberry or raspberry method: fill your glass with ice, the more ice you add the cooler your drink stays and the slower it melts so don’t be shy! pour in your rhubarb gin, then top up with fentiman’s rose lemonade. gently lay your strawberry on the surface, resting it on the ice, so you can really enjoy the beautiful aroma of the fruit with every sip! rhubarb martini ingredients: 65 ml warner edwards victoria’s rhubarb gin – 10 ml noilly prat dry vermouth – 3 dashes of rhubarb bitters (optional) – lime twist – martini glass method: stir all the ingredients over ice for at least 15 seconds in a mixing glass and pour into the martini glass, straining out the ice! rhubarb gimlet ingredients: 50 ml warner edwards victoria’s rhubarb gin – 25 ml fresh lime juice – 20 ml sugary syrup – 3 dashes of pink grapefruit bitters (optional) – mint spring – martini glass method: shake all of the ingredients together with ice and fine strain into martini glass. garnish with mint sprig and have yourself a wonderful time! rhubarb sour ingredients: 50 ml warner edwards victoria’s rhubarb gin – 25 ml lemon juice – 20 ml sugar syrup – dash angostura bitters – 1 egg white (optional) – blackberries and lime wedge method: dry shake all the ingredients together, then shake again with ice and pour into a rocks glass filled with ice. garnish with blackberries and lime wedge and voila! a nice fresh rhubarb sour! edinburgh gin rhubarb and ginger liqueur 50 cl best edinburgh rhubarb gin i know what you’re thinking, “wasn’t this gin already on the list?” the answer: why yes, yes it was, we’re glad to see you’re paying attention. this gin is so incredible we’ve decided to list it twice! okay, not really, but the actual reason we listed the edinburgh two times is because of the price and the size of the bottle offered. this 50 cl bottle is inexpensive and is amazon’s no. 1 best seller in the liqueurs category! this option is for people who drink a little more often and are looking to get a bargain. it’s two and a half times the size of the other edinburgh bottle, but miraculously, only a touch more in price. for the quality, you just simply can’t beat this price. you need to hop on this wave immediately and let it lead you to your new favorite gin! check latest price three more recipes we found for using this gin! rhubarb rhubarb ingredients: 50 ml edinburgh gin’s rhubarb and ginger liqueur – 10 ml aperol – 25 ml fresh lemon juice – 12 ml sugar syrup – 2 dashes rhubarb bitters – 1 egg white method: dry shake all the ingredients in a cocktail shaker. add ice to the shaker and shake again for 15 seconds. strain into a martini or coupe glass. raspberry gin fizz ingredients: 25 ml edinburgh gin– 100 ml prosecco – fresh raspberry method: add the raspberry liqueur to a chilled champagne flute or coupette. top with prosecco and garnish with a fresh raspberry! rose jewel ingredients: 25 ml edinburgh gin’s pomegranate and rose liqueur – 25 ml edinburgh rhubarb gin – 25 ml lemon juice – 15 ml pomegranate juice – fresh pomegranate seeds to garnish method: shake the gin, liqueur, lemon juice and pomegranate juice with ice. double strain into a rocks glass filled with crushed ice. garnish with pomegranate seeds. elderflower collins ingredients: 50 ml edinburgh gin – 20 ml edinburgh gin’s elderflower liqueur – 25 ml lemon juice – soda water – lemon twist – cocktail cherries method: mix the gin, liqueur and lemon juice in a shakira with ice. pour into an ice-filled collins glass. top up with soda water and garnish with lemon and a cocktail cherry or two! whitley neill rhubarb and ginger gin strongest bottle of rhubarb gin we tried to be unbiased, but this is easily the best-looking bottle of the bunch. its sleek and modern design would sit perfectly inside any liqueur cabinet! it’s unique purple color separates itself from other rhubarb gins on the market! this gin was handcrafted in the united kingdom and has a tart crispy edge. the whitley neill has a smooth english gin base while the ginger extract warms the palate for a full-bodied finish. this gin is served best neat over ice or mixed with cloudy apple juice! also, a garnish of ginger or rosemary always adds that nice little kick you may be looking for. have i mentioned how this gin has the highest alcohol percentage of any on this list? while it’s not 100percent alcohol volume (that would kill you), it does get about as close as you can possibly get without that outcome at 43 percent! now, you’re probably thinking, “it must be super expensive,” but you’d be wrong! for a very small price, you can bring home a 70 cl bottle of this magnificent happy juice today! here’s some fun little backstory about this product! while most of johnny neill’s inspiration for his award-winning gins comes from his ancestors’ broad exploits around the world, this rhubarb and ginger gin is made slightly closer to home. post-war the whitley family, now settled into rural england near daresbury, cultivated their garden with thrilling flavors, serving as inspiration for both the table and indeed their experimentation with new gins. johnny’s latest gin evokes childhood memories of visiting his grandparents on their farm by taking a firm whitley family favorite in rhubarb and placed a warm twist on this with the addition of fresh ginger. here are a few recipes we have found for you that go perfectly with this gin! check latest price two recipes we found using this gin! whitley neill ginger and gin ingredients: 50 ml whitley neill rhubarb and ginger gin – 150 ml ginger beer – twist of lime to garnish method: mix the ingredients into a glass packed with lots of ice and stir gently. garnish with a twist of lime and enjoy! ginger ale ingredients: 50 ml whitley neill rhubarb and ginger – 150 ml fever-tree premium ginger ale – a wedge of lime method: pour the whitley neill rhubarb and ginger into a glass with ice and top off with the fever-tree premium ginger ale. garnish with a wedge of lime to finish this delicious drink! bottom line: ever since trying and reviewing all sorts of toffee vodkas, i have been trying more and more flavoured gins. and. that’s all we’ve got for you. five wonderful rhubarb gins that are just waiting for you to purchase. okay, well, technically four different gins but five different bottles that will all add a very eloquent touch to your collection! whether you decide to go with the edinburgh 20 cl or get more bang for your buck with the number one liqueur on amazon, the edinburgh 50 cl, you truly just can’t go wrong. if a higher alcohol percentage is important to you, then maybe the whitley is the way to go! or, if you’re more interested in award-winning accolades the warner edwards would be the way to go! and of course, you can’t forget about the slingsby with its vast number of recipes you get to choose from! this has been our top rhubarb gins of 2018 and i genuinely hope it has helped you find your new favorite drink! 26shares sharetweet related posts glassware / reviews best whiskey glasses 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews gin / reviews best non alcoholic gin 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews glassware / reviews best red wine glasses of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews prev post how to cure a hangover at work fast – without anyone noticing next post how to decant wine without a decanter – 5 different ways about 12×75.com 12×75 is a light hearted, comical wine blog which focuses on wine news, reviews, food & interviews with leading figures in the world of wine. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. articles about twelve by seventy five ltd (who have nothing to do with 12×75.com) will the real 12×75 please stand up, please stand up investment firm twelve by seventy five is not 12×75 recent posts best non alcoholic gin 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews most shared posts best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it?... being a native californian but living in nyc, i think i&# 28 shares best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktai... cocktail shakers are used for a variety of reasons in a v 35 shares the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s gu... what is it about opening wine that can sometimes be so an 33 shares interviews stephen browett – farr vintners doug rumsam – bordeaux index mark schuringa – ditton wine traders adon kumar – wine searcher judy leissner – grace vineyard peter lunzer – lunzer investments james miles – liv ex mark bedini – fine+rare david elghanayan – vanquish benjamin wallace – the billionaire’s vinegar paula & stacey golding – premier cru fine wine investments henri lurton – chateau brane-cantenac nigel jagger – octavian simon berry – berry bros. & rudd aline baly – chateau coutet adam brett-smith – corney & barrow maximilian riedel – riedel tony laithwaite – laithwaite’s wine pages about us contact us subscribe #7wordwinereview power… sitemap for great london seo services click away. ©2020 back to top search search close