wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) – 2020 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) – 2020 last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 1.7k shares share tweet share pin are you looking to build a membership site in wordpress? want to know which is the best wordpress membership plugin? choosing the right membership plugin is crucial for your business because a better platform means more opportunity for growth. in this article, we will compare 5 best wordpress membership plugins to easily create paid membership websites. what to look in a wordpress membership plugin? there are plenty of wordpress membership plugins, but not all of them have specific features that you may need for creating your membership site. some of them are good for selling subscriptions on a single level while others offer more diverse membership levels and subscription management features. some plugins offer drip content feature which allows you to slowly release new content to a user. while others are restricted to only offering hidden content. you will also need to figure out which payment gateways you will use. do you want to accept credit cards only, paypal, or both? your membership plugin should have support for your preferred payment gateways either built-in or through an addon. having said that, let’s see what you will need to start a wordpress membership site. what do you need to run a wordpress membership site? membership websites are resource intensive, and choosing the wrong host can be detrimental to your overall performance. that’s why the first thing you need to do is choose the best wordpress hosting that you can afford. if you’re on a budget, then you can start with bluehost. their business pro plan comes with a ssl certificate which you need to securely collect payments, dedicated ip, and a dedicated support line. if budget is not an issue, and you want the best performance, then we recommend using a managed wordpress hosting provider like wpengine. if you don’t already have one, then you will need to choose a domain name for your website. here is our guide on how to pick the right domain name for your membership site. lastly, you will need to choose essential business plugins such as optinmonster which helps you capture leads and boost subscriptions. now that we have covered what you need to start a membership site in wordpress, let’s take a look at our top wordpress membership plugins. 1. memberpress memberpress is one of the most popular wordpress membership plugins. it is also the easiest to use and the most robust when it comes to features. pros of memberpress wordpress membership plugin easy to setup – memberpress makes it simple to setup a membership website with wordpress. it can automatically setup pricing, login, account, and thank you pages for your users. adding membership plans is also very straight forward. content access control – memberpress comes with powerful access control, which allows you to restrict access to any content including posts, pages, categories, tags, files, etc. content dripping – content dripping allows you to show restricted content to members after a certain time. this is a very useful feature for selling online courses or learning materials. integrations – memberpress integrates with aweber, mailchimp, getresponse, and madmimi email services. it also integrates with amazon web services and blubrry for podcast hosting. payment gateways – memberpress comes with built-in support for paypal and stripe payment gateways. developer plan also adds authorize.net support. cons of using memberpress pro limited payment options – memberpress only supports the three most popular payment gateways. this would be a deal breaker for site owners who live in countries not supported by these payment gateways. limited integrations – while the plugin has enough support for popular services to run a membership site efficiently, it still lacks integrations with some other popular services. the plugin is easily extensible, and you can pay someone to integrate a third-party service you would like to use. pricing: starting from $129 / year for the basic plan and $249 / year for the plus plan. we think memberpress is the most easy to use wordpress membership plugin for beginners. it is quick to setup with tons of powerful options. 2. learndash learndash is a super flexible and extremely easy to use wordpress lms plugin. it comes with advanced membership modules and tons of integrations. pros of using learndash easy to setup learndash is quite easy to setup and adding content to it much more simpler. it also comes with advanced tools to easily organize your membership content into levels, groups, etc. easy content restrictions learndash allows you to easily hide any content and restrict it to different membership groups. sell courses – learndash allows you to easily create and sell online courses. it has advanced modules that allow you to better manage learning material than other wordpress membership plugins. drip content – it comes with powerful drip content feature allowing you to roll out content to users on regular intervals or upon completion of levels. built-in community features it comes with tools to create highly engaging membership sites with quizzes, user badges, course specific forums, certificates, user profiles, etc. integrations & payments learndash offers an amazing set of integrations and payment gateways. you can even connect it to memberpress, woocommerce, bbpress, slack, etc. cons of using learndash lacks some membership features – if you are trying to build a membership website without selling courses, then some of learndash features may not be useful to you. pricing: starting from $159 for a single site license with 1 year of support and updates. learndash is the perfect solution if you want to sell online courses on a paid membership website. it’s extensive set of addons and integrations allow you to build a highly-engaging platform. 3. teachable teachable is an all inclusive online courses builder. it packs membership website, lms, discussion forum, email marketing, and analytics all under one dashboard. pros of using teachable ease of use teachable is easy to set up and does not require any technical skills at all. creating membership content is a breeze and includes built-in tools to quickly create and upload videos, text, pdf, and more. drip content it includes flexible drip content feature, which allows you to roll out content based on a users’ progress or subscription level. built-in engagement features it offers discussion forums, quizzes, contact forms, certificates, and other features to boost user engagement and build powerful online communities. cons of using teachable not a wordpress plugin teachable is not available as a wordpress plugin. instead, you can integrate it to your wordpress site by adding links or a sub-domain. more expensive teachable includes everything which makes it more expensive than other wordpress membership plugins. pricing: basic plan starts at $39 / month, professional $99 / month, and business $499 / month. 4. restrict content pro restrict content pro is a powerful contender for the title of the best membership plugin for wordpress. it is created by same team that’s behind the popular easy digital downloads and affiliatewp plugins. pros of using restrict content pro easy to use – restrict content pro beautifully integrates with the wordpress user interface. this allows you to easily figure out how to use it. built-in integrations – unlike other membership plugins, restrict content pro comes with built-in integrations that other plugins ship as paid addons. it has stripe, paypal, mailchimp, mailpoet, email manager, csv export, and many more features. payment gateways – stripe, paypal, and braintree come as free addons. other supported payment gateways include 2checkout, paypal website payments pro, paypal express, and stripe checkout. works with easy digital downloads – if you are running easy digital downloads to sell digital products, then restrict content pro is the perfect companion for that. excellent support – there is extensive free documentation available for all users. you also get professional support by email with very fast response times. cons of using restrict content pro fewer integrations – it has fewer integrations with third party services such as email service providers than some other plugins on this list. pricing: $99 with 12 addons and single site license, $149 for 5 sites, and $249 for all addons and unlimited sites. there is also a $499 lifetime plan. we found restrict content pro to be one of the most easy to use membership plugin. it is also developer friendly, and comes with a great set of features that are perfect for all kind of membership websites. 5. s2member s2member is a popular free wordpress membership plugin with pro version available as well. it has been around for quite a while and has a devoted userbase. pros of using s2member wordpress membership plugin free base plugin – the s2member base plugin is free. anyone can download and give it a try. it is limited in terms of features and support but gives you a good starting point. content dripping – s2member pro comes with content drip feature. payment gateways – the free version supports paypal. pro version of the plugin supports stripe and authorize.net as well. integrations – works with mailchimp, bbpress and buddypress. documentation & support – s2member has an extensive knowledgebase available to all. pro users also get email based support. cons of using s2member wordpress membership plugin not very user-friendly – we found s2member to be a little more difficult to use than other membership plugins. free version limitations – free version only supports paypal, limits to only 4 membership levels, and does not have drip content feature. pricing: the base plugin is free, then pro version for a single site license costs $89 usd. for unlimited sites pro version costs $189 usd. conclusion: we believe that memberpress is the best option for wordpress membership plugin. it has all the features that you would need with great documentation and support. if you want something simple and flexible, then restrict content pro is a great option. the team behind has a proven track record for producing excellent products. if you want to sell courses on your membership website, then we recommend using learndash, it comes with powerful features to create and sell courses online. we hope this article helped you find the best wordpress membership plugin for your site. you may also want to see our step by step wordpress seo guide for beginners. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 1.7k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 148 commentsleave a reply rami efal says: aug 26, 2019 at 1:02 pm thank you for this – do any of these come with mobile experience, or would users use the regular desktop wp version of the website (or mobile one) with the added privileges – or does any of these plug-in offer a specialized app experience? many thanks ! reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 9:16 am unless i hear otherwise, these options should have similar tools to their desktop view when viewing mobile reply alice says: aug 21, 2019 at 3:19 am thanks for your great list. do you know any membership plugins that can help password protect parts of the content? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 21, 2019 at 9:19 am if you mean a content drip, most if not all of these plugins should have that option available. if you check with the plugin’s support directly with what you’re wanting they should be able to let you know if they support that reply tanya says: jun 15, 2019 at 10:45 pm hi, i was just looking through this an i am very new to all this, i have a wordpress site with the divi builder and am looking to set up online courses and an online school that enables people to purchase a course and do payment instalments. its important for me to be able to do it mostly myself as well as to customize the courses with photos and videos. do you recommend any one for me? just starting out so also needs to be affordable and sustainable long term to expand. i appreciate and tips you have thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: jun 17, 2019 at 11:47 am for selling courses you may want to take a look into lms plugins instead, we have an article listing some here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/best-wordpress-lms-plugins-compared/ reply uq says: may 15, 2019 at 4:46 pm question for you, will my recurring clients get an invoice with membership press? reply wpbeginner support says: may 16, 2019 at 10:37 am you would want to check with the plugin’s support for what types of invoicing they have available reply shannon says: apr 26, 2019 at 12:11 pm s2member seems to have been abandoned by the developers. no update in a year and radio silence reply wpbeginner support says: apr 29, 2019 at 11:26 am s2member’s support is on their specific site’s forums at the moment may be why it looks that way but the plugin should still be active. reply ashleigh sartori says: apr 4, 2019 at 5:12 am outstanding post, i believe blog owners should learn a lot from this website its real user friendly. so much wonderful info on here :d. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 4, 2019 at 11:42 am thank you, glad you find our content helpful reply bradley craine says: apr 4, 2019 at 3:10 am excellent website. lots of helpful info here. i am sending it to some buddies ans also sharing in delicious. and obviously, thanks for your sweat! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 4, 2019 at 11:28 am thank you, glad you like our content reply shelli bush says: apr 4, 2019 at 2:38 am thankfulness to my father who told me about this website, this webpage is genuinely awesome. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 4, 2019 at 11:28 am thank you, glad you find our content helpful reply aline lyster says: apr 2, 2019 at 3:56 pm i have been exploring for a little for any high quality articles or blog posts on this sort of area . exploring in yahoo i ultimately stumbled upon this web site. reading this information so i’m glad to convey that i have a very excellent uncanny feeling i came upon just what i needed. i so much no doubt will make sure to don’t fail to remember this website and give it a look on a continuing basis. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 3, 2019 at 10:48 am thank you, glad our content can be helpful reply corinne barry says: mar 30, 2019 at 3:55 am whoah this weblog is fantastic i really like studying your posts. stay up the good work! you know, many persons are hunting around for this info, you can aid them greatly. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 1, 2019 at 11:48 am glad you found our content helpful reply tamara polson says: mar 24, 2019 at 1:31 am i know this if off topic but i’m looking into starting my own weblog and was curious what all is needed to get set up? i’m assuming having a blog like yours would cost a pretty penny? i’m not very web smart so i’m not 100% certain. any suggestions or advice would be greatly appreciated. kudos reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 3:02 pm for getting started with a blog, you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/start-a-wordpress-blog/ reply s.kamal says: mar 15, 2019 at 6:23 pm buddy press not in the list why??? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 11:44 am buddypress is not a membership plugin, you may want to take a look at our article where we cover buddypress here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-turn-your-wordpress-site-into-a-social-network/ reply john says: feb 27, 2019 at 3:28 pm hello, is there a plugin that will allow a guest to subscribe for post changes? lets say i publish a post with a coupon in it, the guest subscribe to the post and when the post is updated with a new coupon the guest user will receive an email notification. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 28, 2019 at 10:39 am while we do not have a recommended plugin for that specific usage, you could create a newsletter informing your users when you update a deal on your site. reply sherwin says: feb 27, 2019 at 1:43 am hi, does the membership plugins mentioned support large files video and documents upload? does it support file and video download options for members as well? thanks for your response. god bless reply wpbeginner support says: feb 27, 2019 at 11:15 am the plugins should be able to handle files on your site, for specifically large files that would depend on how you have your site and hosting set up. reply muhammad arslan says: oct 28, 2018 at 5:49 pm i need a plugin to create a registration process reply wpbeginner support says: oct 30, 2018 at 12:47 pm hi muhammad arslan, please see our guide on how to create a custom user registration form in wordpress. reply mclovin says: sep 15, 2018 at 2:08 pm wp-member is freee. might be worth checking out reply jon says: sep 8, 2018 at 6:09 pm i am running the latest version of wordpress and have just purchased learndash and divi 3.1. i want to have affiliates selling my courses (both subscription and one-time purchases) and was told by the learndash team i would need to use woocommerce or easy digital downloads to make that happen. i want to use affiliatewp (which is compatible with both woo and edd). but when i asked about how the subscriptions happened, they said that i would need to get the membership and subscription plugins for woo, or a membership system like restrict content pro. i do not understand this as i thought learndash was the membership system for my courses. as i have already spoken to them and get why i need the shopping cart to add the affiliate function. can you tell me why i need an additional, separate membership system? reply wpbeginner support says: sep 10, 2018 at 4:41 pm hi jon, learndash allows you to manage classes, courses, and students. you can sell courses with learndash and even add recurring payments. when setting price for your course you can select payment type (“buy now” or “recurring”). after that you can select the billing cycle. to manage your affiliates you will need an affiliate management tool. reply frank crosby says: aug 19, 2018 at 4:12 pm i am having trouble integrating restrict comment pro membership subscriptions with themify ultra. as a result, i am unable to test my stripe payment(s). the restrict content page says this is often a page builder error. i don’t want to revert to html (cut and paste). any suggestions? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 19, 2018 at 5:21 pm hi frank, try contacting plugin and theme support and see if they have a better solution or workaround. reply lux says: aug 13, 2018 at 9:58 am i am looking for a plugin that lets me limit the amount of pages a user can read daily before he has to sign up (and pay). any idea where i could find such plugin? reply jeremiah acquah says: aug 12, 2018 at 7:49 am please i need plugins that will allow me to sell pages to my members for blog. meaning they can write articles that will show online. thanks reply tom says: aug 4, 2018 at 9:56 am thanks for the nice article. i’d like to see some free alternatives. which is the best free membership plugin for building a paid membership website with some nice profile page? reply nathan says: sep 6, 2018 at 1:43 am hi tom, you can use ultimate member and paid membership pro combo. it is looks very professional and with a very secure and nice login page and registration page as well. i have it on website and it work in wonders. reply tom says: sep 25, 2018 at 8:50 am thank you nathan! reply john says: jan 9, 2019 at 9:59 pm ultimate member is a horrible plugin riddled with bugs along with very poor support. stay away from them. once you purchase, you’re locked in and they will not refund your money no matter how many issues you have with this crappy plugin. reply gina says: feb 19, 2019 at 8:30 pm agreed. we’ve been with them for two years on their paid plan. when i asked how to transfer members to a new site (a staging site), i was told to basically “google it.” we’re paying for support — just wanted to throw that in there again. oh, and it was the founder who provides support and gave me that answer. every time we’ve needed support from ultimate member, it’s nearly brought me to tears of frustration. so hard to customize, so full of problems, so not intuitive, so lacking in support. stay away. james says: jul 22, 2018 at 9:52 pm hello wpbeginner ! thanks for your article. i’m thinking of migrating my existing membership website – it would need to have individual member profiles, photo albums, a site timeline, forums, and a searchable directory, as well as a few other general pages to insert html and links. can you recommend any specific plugin(s) that can achieve this for me ? thanks in advance. reply john says: jul 1, 2018 at 1:23 pm hey guys, i’m a beginner looking for a membership site where i can divide content along lines of gender and also offer the members a chance to submit their own content but to their own area only – in the form of a journal and notes, for example. is this possible. thanks in advance, john reply barry says: may 9, 2018 at 4:58 pm i need a member area where i upload client specific invoices, estimates, drawings, tracking numbers and other information for only that client. is that possible with any of these. i want to upload them myself and not put from something platform. reply wpbeginner support says: may 9, 2018 at 7:17 pm hi barry, these are membership plugins which allow you to give users access to community/paid features of a website. reply jeremiah acquah says: aug 17, 2018 at 12:25 pm please am from ghana which membership plugin and payment option is good for me reply wpbeginner support says: aug 17, 2018 at 11:19 pm hi jeremiah, for that you will need to find out which payment providers are available in your country, and then see if the membership plugin has an addon that supports any of those payment providers. lee says: jun 18, 2018 at 5:18 pm i haven’t done it but i would go about doing this by creating a page on your site just for your client, and have that page access blocked with a username and password wall that you have for your client. unless you have many such clients, in which case i don’t know i guess you’d need a more complicated solution. reply juana says: apr 26, 2018 at 9:43 am hi, thanks for the great post, it was very helpful to understand some basic things for me. but i´m still a little bit confused about how to solve my need. maybe you can help me, and i’ll be very grateful. i’m working on a wp site, to sell accountant services. i want customers to pay every month, lets say, 10 bucks. so what i need is to link woocommerce (to upload my services/products), and a complete membership plugin to let them update their profile, check their payment status, edit personal information, etc. and, last, if this is possible, to link all that information to a crm like zoho or similar. do you think is that possible? any advices will be very welcome! thank you a lot reply wpbeginner support says: apr 26, 2018 at 8:10 pm hi juana, yes it is possible and you have basically described how you would do it reply vlad says: mar 19, 2018 at 7:08 pm good article! im looking for solution to control access to pages, interested in function to let users have multiple subscriptions for accessing multiple courses, and to have an option to control access to pages by groups and also per user in case someone haven’t done homework. any of listed plugin with this functions? or maybe it would be possible by combining some of them. help please. reply jim says: mar 8, 2018 at 8:22 pm why are plugins for wordpress so overpriced?? how are bloggers and npos able to get decent functionality to run their site when plugins cost so much? reply pepita says: apr 3, 2018 at 7:51 am why is it overpriced? if you would have to build the functionality yourself it wouid cost so much time. you want to have membership software so you can produce something once and sell it to members. that is what these plugin developers do as well…. reply ronny oehm says: mar 5, 2018 at 2:22 am many thanks for the presentation of the membership plugins! i’m looking for a membership plugin where a paid membership level can provide different numbers of uploads. it should be a kind of photo community. the first level of membership should have one upload per week, the second should get 15 uploads per week, and so on. unfortunately, i have not found a plugin which offers quota limits, only those with space limits. i do not know if one of your featured membership plugins will support this. reply mike says: feb 28, 2018 at 2:19 pm this is very helpful. do you have insight on how these member plugins stack up in terms of where the member/subscriber pages live on my wordpress site? in other words, there’s a question of if the subscriber area is on a subdomain or a subdirectory. the former will allow me to have a separate search index and set of categories/tags so that subscribers can find things easier. that’s my preference, but i’m not sure if any of the plugins in this article support that, or if they work mostly with subdirectories instead. and in the case of a member subdirectory, can the site search index be partitioned to only apply to that subdirectory? thanks for your time! reply hafiz mateen afzal says: feb 22, 2018 at 10:36 am i want to give my client life time access but before they pay for membership they have a chance to take a three days trial. which plugin is best for me ? a) lifetime access after trial b) automatically take money and automatically upgrade level after trial period reply brian booth says: feb 5, 2018 at 3:24 pm hopefully someone can help. i have a website where i give cashback for offers that my members fill out. i need a membership plugin to keep a track of my members. i use getresponse so i would like the plugin to integrate with them. also so my members can login and check their balance. that is really all i need from the plugin. reply pam terry says: jan 27, 2018 at 1:27 pm your blog date says january 2 2018, but the comments date back to 2016. as i write this reply, january 27, 2018, the pricing for paid memberships pro that you state does not seem to be accurate. i wish it were. i guess they went up since you wrote your blog (2016?), but their website says that their pmpro plus license is $297 a year. they have a free version which might be the pmpro. then there is another version, unlimited, which is $597. i appreciate the comparisons – thank you for this information. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 28, 2018 at 6:32 am hi pam, thanks for pointing this out. we have updated the article. their basic free plan now includes some addons and limited features and their paid plans now start from $297 / year. reply dimas says: jan 19, 2018 at 6:34 pm hi, i have a plan to make directory. in the directory itself is just list of people who specialize in graphic design (for example). there’s send message button over there, which is visitor can interaction. send message itself only on the website. can’t go outside like gmail, or whatever. any suggestion for this? reply sylvie bertrand says: jan 18, 2018 at 9:32 pm hi, new to wordpress… i want to sell courses online. i want to sell packages that will contain a few video on a certain topic. i want the clients who paid for them to be able to come back at will, but i don’t want them to be able to share those video. if i create videos using unpublish feature on youtube , is it possible to restrict the sharing of those video with leandash? if not, do you know what plugin i could use? thank you sylvie reply fede says: jan 17, 2018 at 9:53 pm s2member pro also has clickbank integrated as payment gateway. great post. it seems not much membership plugins works with clickbank. reply vishal arora says: jan 11, 2018 at 11:21 am which of these is the best option if it is critical that my members are able to make selections in multiple categories? also, since i am looking for something very specific, i know i will need to add extra code to add some features. which of these is most flexible when it comes to adding features? thanks. reply storm grayson says: jan 10, 2018 at 1:06 pm struggling to find the right member plugin. am trying memberpress but it wont allow my members to sign in and membership pro is too complicated. restrict content pro sounds ok but nervous to try another plugin as it doesn’t help my popular site. i don’t want to do downloads either. any suggestions. reply yancey thomas jr says: dec 30, 2017 at 8:20 pm another review site states this about restrict content pro, “limitations: the plugin lacks content dripping feature which is surely a fundamental feature for a membership site.” that’s not mentioned here. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 31, 2017 at 3:21 pm hi yancey, restrict content pro introduced content drip feature in mid 2016. reply sara joe says: dec 20, 2017 at 12:29 pm this is informative.. but i can’t still find what i actually want. reply ed says: dec 9, 2017 at 4:19 pm am looking to be able to manage contact information in a not for profit that has 3800 members. would want them to be able to login and update their own information. also would want members to be able to login and be able to search (access) normally restricted information. any thoughts?? you all are the go to place for getting objective information!! reply wpbeginner support says: dec 9, 2017 at 5:55 pm hi ed, all the above listed plugins can be used to do that with a little bit of setup. you may also want to take a look at our step by step guide on how to create a membership website. reply michael taylor says: nov 11, 2017 at 9:59 am thank you for such a comprehensive and informative review of the membership plugins. your recommendations have definitely helped me make a decision. reply sarwar says: oct 7, 2017 at 11:23 pm i am a newbie to wordpress. i am using bbpress for my site. i have an existing form that doesn’t have any approval process. i am manually adding the users after receiving the forms. i did some digging and found the “new user approve” plugin. i went ahead and installed the plugin. but not sure how to link/connect the plugin to my form so that the new user registrations can be moderated (approve or deny). any help will be greatly appreciated. reply luke cavanagh says: sep 21, 2017 at 2:57 pm not a fan of the ui that s2member uses. reply taylor hamilton says: sep 14, 2017 at 1:28 pm hi guys! i’m hoping you (or someone here) can help me. i’m using memberpress and woocommerce to set up a site that sells annual memberships to a local brick-and-mortar archery club. in order for someone to become a member of the club, they have to watch a safety video and pass a quiz on the video content (if they miss more than 2 questions it’s a ‘fail’, but they can re-take the quiz until they pass). do you know of any plugins or add-ons that will add this functionality to memberpress or any of the other membership plugins? thanks in advance! reply vic dorfman says: nov 18, 2017 at 1:41 pm hey taylor, gravityforms would work great for this scenario. the easiest implementation would be to present the video before collecting payment for the membership (if user passes => redirect them to the checkout). but if you want to collect payment first you can restrict content until they pass the test, and then make it available. this method would be a bit more technical. reply renee says: sep 13, 2017 at 2:01 pm we’re looking for a plug in or theme that includes a search function (several fields as well as scattershot search) for the directory of members. would any of these work in that way.? thank you. reply saurabh saneja says: oct 12, 2017 at 10:29 am all themes come with default wordpress search. and to the best of my knowledge membership plugins don’t come with search functionaly. there’re plenty of good search plugins. you can also use google custom search on your website; it’s pretty fast. https://www.wpbeginner.com/showcase/12-wordpress-search-plugins-to-improve-your-site-search/ reply bob says: sep 6, 2017 at 5:33 am hi im looking for a membership plugin that makes the members upload insurance certificates every time there existing one expires. i run a therapy practice and the therapists need to be insured. having the membership expire if they dont upload a new certificate would really help. any ideas?? reply vic dorfman says: nov 18, 2017 at 1:46 pm @bob you would need to use something like gravityforms (for the upload component) plus a bit of custom coding. i assume every member has a different expiration date that is not relative to when they joined? if that’s the case it makes it more complicated because you’ll need a way to set the expiration date and sync it with the content protection. if the expiry date is relative to when somebody joined, then you could conceivably make a membership level or bundle called “certificate”, and use that to restrict access based on whether or not they’ve renewed. reply dwayne says: aug 29, 2017 at 9:44 pm which of these plugins allow management of users restricting them to only be logged in from one location at a time, preventing the sharing of passwords? reply john says: sep 2, 2017 at 10:59 am hi dwayne, you could use prevent concurrent logins, which is a free plugin that attaches to the core wordpress log in script. all of these tie into the core wordpress log in script, so it will work with them. as for sharing logins, there is nothing you can do for that. accept it as part of being in the membership business and move on. it will happen far less than you think. reply mateusz says: aug 16, 2017 at 10:13 am hi, thanks for the excellent review. i am looking for a wordpress plugin that with help me with managing membership service for members of association i am volunteering. i look for basic features such content restriction, and sending e-mails to members like 1 week after joining, 1 month, and so on; and before theirs renewal date. however, one important things is that i’ll have an external list of members (basically they are renewing or buying their membership via external site and all i have is a members’ list with their e-mails, join and expiration date). no need to have payment gateways. thanks for your help. reply bob says: sep 6, 2017 at 5:35 am hello im looking for the same thing! did you find anything that works? reply vic dorfman says: nov 18, 2017 at 1:50 pm hey mateusz, 1. “i am looking for a wordpress plugin that with help me with managing membership service for members of association i am volunteering. i look for basic features such content restriction, and sending e-mails to members like 1 week after joining, 1 month, and so on; and before theirs renewal date.” you can do that with most of the top membership plugins on the market right now including memberpress, membermouse and dap, plus zapier. you can even make the emails look like they’re coming directly from your gmail with zapier, which is a nice personal touch i feel. the only difficult part is sending an email before the renewal date. you’d have to use a 3rd party script for that or some zapier magic to ‘calculate’ the date since it’s different for each member. 2. “however, one important things is that i’ll have an external list of members (basically they are renewing or buying their membership via external site and all i have is a members’ list with their e-mails, join and expiration date). no need to have payment gateways. thanks for your help.” this part is easy. just connect your membership plugin to zapier and hook it up to google sheets or airtable (my preference) and you’ll have a synced external database of members. reply mark williams says: aug 11, 2017 at 9:49 am i’m looking for a plug-in compatible with a wp-designed website that can take annual subscription payments for a print magazine and generate a mailing list for the magazine labels etc. it should also be able to handle individual copy sales and sales of magazine binders and be easy to use and able to look like the actual website. any ideas please? reply john says: sep 2, 2017 at 11:00 am you will probably want to use woocommerce and woo subscriptions for that. reply troy says: aug 3, 2017 at 3:53 pm i need a membership website for elders to store their legal documents, login and a email contact. basic 3-5 clicks any recommendation. i have been stuck at idea for 2 years reply john says: sep 2, 2017 at 11:04 am “store their legal documents” don’t! you need specialized servers that cost upwards of $1500 a month. a 24 hour a day 7 day a week security operations center, huge amounts of liability insurance, and really good attorneys. doing that in wordpress by someone who doesn’t know what they are doing is a hackers dream. you would be legally liable, possibly criminally liable to every single one of them when your site gets hacked. reply richard pace says: nov 8, 2017 at 11:10 am a vps can be rented fairly cheap and with a ssl cloudflare mod sec and a bit of pci scanning tweaking for compliance it is perfectly affordable and safe to host legal documents. there are also some things like the blockchain that could provide a robust secure no hosted solution. reply « 1 2 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.