sheknows.com health & wellnesshealth news 5 benefits of a 3-minute meditation by katie carlson oct 01, 2015 at 10:37 am edt oct 01, 2015 at 10:37 am edt image: wavebreakmedia ltd/getty images share this article tumblr reddit linkedin whatsapp email print talk do you ever find yourself rushing around, feeling stressed and too busy to enjoy life? this feeling is all too common in society today. unfortunately, it’s a daily obstacle for many of us. between work, family, responsibilities and appointments, it often feels like too much for one person to handle. so what changes can you make to live a productive, healthy and enjoyable lifestyle in a world designed to never stop? meditation quiets the mind in order to reduce stress and find inner peace and balance. some people look down on meditation because they don’t understand it, they’ve never actually tried it or they have preconceived notions about it. meditation practice teaches you to slow down. it goes against everything we’ve ever been taught, which is to achieve more, do more and be more. a daily three-minute meditation is a time-efficient and effective way to gain back your inner peace. the benefits are greater than you may expect. 1. a happier you at the end of the day, aren’t we all just trying to live a happier and more joyful existence? meditation consists of a focused reflection of yourself and the thoughts in your head. it’s time spent giving thanks for what you do have, appreciating the little blessings around you and expressing a loving kindness for yourself and others. it makes you — and those around you — happier, and it helps you feel more connected to your loved ones, humanity and nature. 2. better brain function the whole purpose of meditation is to exercise your mind and stop the endless cycle of repetitive thoughts. sometimes we forget how powerful the brain is and how important it is to exercise, rest and nurture it. meditation increases your attention span and memory and allows for better concentration. quieting the mind reduces anxiety and increases creativity and emotional stability. who’s in? 3. less stress and aging stress will overwhelm you if you don’t manage it. meditation helps stop racing thoughts and releases toxic energy from your body. a decrease in stress and negative thoughts improves functioning of the brain, is linked to slowing aging, increases immunity and helps fight disease. meditation helps with anxiety by lowering stress, blood pressure and increasing energy levels. 4. improved sleep sleep deprivation is a major issue for most people these days. working long hours, skipping exercise and juggling too much at once is the norm. ironically, when we neglect our health, our productivity, happiness and quality of sleep decreases. when this happens, we get stuck in an endless loop of exhaustion, begin over-caffeinating and eventually reach our burnout point. taking a few minutes out of your day to quiet your mind and practice gratitude will improve your quality of life, well-being and your ability to get a better night’s rest. 5. weight loss a lot of us struggle with weight loss on a daily basis. why not make it easier on yourself and your body by taking the proper action to increase your metabolism? with less stress, more energy and a mindful awareness of the breath, you’re on the right road to weight loss. stress interferes with the efficiency of your metabolism, plain and simple. a few minutes of daily meditation can change your life meditation is the one practice and tool everyone can benefit from in some way. i don’t say that about much, so that tells you how passionate i am about sharing all of the health benefits that come from it. regardless of how you unwind and decrease stress in your own life, i hope you’ll move your health to the top of your to-do list from here on out. see more posts and tips at http://www.thesocialbeing721.com! tagged in meditation stress stress management comments comments are closed. new in health & wellness view article easy daily changes you can make to help your mental health easy daily changes you can make to help your mental health view article 9 foreplay positions that are fun enough to be the main event 9 foreplay positions that are fun enough to be the main event view article 5 personal trainers on the best exercises for people with back pain 5 personal trainers on the best exercises for people with back pain view article what it’s like to be an uninsured mom in 2020 what it’s like to be an uninsured mom in 2020 view article ditching my running app was the best decision for my mental health ditching my running app was the best decision for my mental health view article how coronavirus could delay getting an abortion in texas and ohio how coronavirus could delay getting an abortion in texas and ohio follow us: facebook twitter pinterest instagram never miss a thing sign up for the sheknows daily newsletter please fill out this field with valid email address. sign up newswire powered by posted on: hollywoodlife kate hudson, reese witherspoon & more stars exercising to stay healthy during outbreak posted 3 hours ago posted on: variety fox news media names joe dorrego cfo, coo (exclusive) posted 4 hours ago posted on: spy 10 popular alternatives to the clarisonic cleansing brush posted 3 hours ago posted on: rolling stone bad bunny gets full drag transformation in new ‘yo perreo sola’ video posted 3 hours ago sheknows lifestyles careers about us blogher soaps stylecaster sheknows baby names legal privacy policy terms of use california privacy rights adchoices do not sell my personal information privacy preferences connect with us facebook twitter pinterest instagram newsletter signup please fill out this field with valid email address. submit © copyright 2018 sheknows media, llc, a subsidiary of penske business media, llc. powered by wordpress.com vip our brands variety deadline rolling stone wwd hollywoodlife gold derby spy robb report footwear news bgr indiewire sourcing journal tvline fairchild media she knows our brands variety deadline rolling stone wwd hollywoodlife gold derby spy robb report footwear news bgr indiewire sourcing journal tvline fairchild media she knows parenting parenting news baby names kids motherhood what to buy entertainment entertainment news celebrities tv & movies books & music food & recipes food news recipes entertaining cooking tips & trends health health news mind & body nutrition & fitness love & sex reproductive health children’s health living culture work/life home shopping guides special series facebook twitter pinterest instagram contact us advertise adchoices careers privacy policy eu privacy preferences terms of use about us sheknows family blogher soaps stylecaster she media ad