skip to content wine blog #7wordwinereview reviews wine racks wine coolers wine aerator what makes the lidl gin so darned popular 10 most popular champagne brands internationally – most are delicious a review of jay z’s ace of spades champagne best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktails at home best whiskey glasses 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best red wine glasses of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best rhubarb gin: brands that will turn even rhubarb haters best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it? 5 best toffee vodka brands that makes you very kissable | 2020 champagne gin non-alcoholic wine vodka close menu search toggle menu home > gin / reviews / vodka best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide published date 3rd march 2020 last modified date 19th march 2020 categories gin / reviews / vodka author vim 23shares sharetweet if you’re wondering why i’m comparing different types of tonic water; it’s because summer is just around the corner, and you know what that means. burgers and hotdogs on the grill, sunny afternoons by the pool, and maybe some adult beverages to make good things even better. it’s truly a magical time of the year where some nights may be forgotten, but memories are definitely made. is there any drink more symbolic of the carefree blur of summer than the classic gin and tonic? some might think so. maybe they’ll mention a fruity cocktail or citrusy beer, but they’d be wrong. fancy colors and flavors can never replace a classic mixed drink, and the gin and tonic is as classic as it gets. personal bias aside, tonic water is an incredibly versatile mixer that finds its way into many irresistible summer staples. it’s unique in many ways, from its slightly bitter taste to its roots in medicine (seriously, it was used to treat malaria—who knew), tonic water is an absolute must to have on-hand when drinks are involved. the natural question, unless you’re still stuck on the malaria thing, is what tonic waters are best? for your answer to that age-old question, we’ve compiled a list with more information than you’ll ever need breaking down exactly which tonic waters are best and why. we already wrote about the best gin glasses as well as our favorite & best rhubarb gin brands, now it’s time to talk about the tonic water. so whether you’re looking for the best tonic water for vodka or the best tonic water for a gin & tonic, read on! canada dry diet tonic water – best diet tonic water look, we know you’re not terribly concerned about your diet when you’re throwing back delicious mixed drinks while basking in the sun by the pool. or maybe that’s just us—maybe you are concerned about those extra calories adding up and taking a toll on the summer body you worked a good 3 weeks for, who are we to judge? the important thing is there are diet tonic water options out there that can give you some peace-of-mind and let you enjoy a refreshing adult beverage without feeling guilty. canada dry diet tonic water is one of those options, and it checks every box a tonic water should. if it’s not the absolute best tonic water, it’s certainly one of the best diet tonic waters out there! whether you’re going to create your own concoction or sip on it straight, the flavor of this tonic water is unique thanks to its use of sugar-free sweeteners. it’s one of those drinks where you either love the flavor and will drink nothing else or you think it’s close enough to a non-diet tonic water and will drink it for the health benefits. speaking of health benefits, canada dry diet tonic water has no sugars and no carbs. that’s right. it’s like drinking regular water, but with bubbles and a unique flavor you can only get from tonic waters. it’s refreshing on its own, and if you ask us, even better when mixed with a little something else. it even goes well with non alcoholic gins like seedlip. if you’re looking for one of the best tonic waters on the market, look no farther than canada dry diet tonic water. it has all the benefits of regular tonic water with none of the sugars or carbs. as an added bonus, it’s made in the usa. if that matters to you, awesome. we just wonder what’s going on with the name… check latest price q drinks tonic water – best tonic water for gin this tonic water prides itself on being the best mixer out there for your favorite tonic water-using beverages. sure, when a brand claims to be the best we feel a little skeptical, but that’s not the case here. why? because q drinks tonic water really does compliment any spirit you choose to use. so, what makes it so great? for one, it is sweetened with organic agave nectar instead of sugars, processed sweeteners, or chemical options. that’s pretty sweet if you ask us! not only does agave provide a unique flavor profile, it is natural and contains fewer calories than more common options. it’s a win-win! q drinks tonic water is also proud of their transparency. are you a stickler for proper ingredient sourcing? lucky for you, this company tells you exactly where the quinine used to flavor their tonic water comes from (peru, if you’re wondering). it’s also produced right here in the united states, which sweetens the deal even farther. if we haven’t mentioned that this company has an eye for detail, hold our cocktail. this company has an eye for detail. their tonic water contains more carbonation than the competition, which makes it unique, but they didn’t stop there. to keep all that lovely crispness bottled up, q drinks tonic water comes in special glass packaging to ensure none of the fizziness escapes. this is truly an exceptional option that we think is one of the best tonic waters for vodka and other mixed drinks! if you haven’t tried it yet, grab yourself a pack and give it a chance. you won’t be disappointed. check latest price zevia tonic water – best tonic water for vodka maybe stevia and zevia rhyme. so, what? the name is nice and gives a solid idea of what this tonic water is about—delicious flavors and a pure sweetness from a natural source. that’s right. zevia tonic water is sweetened with stevia, not high fructose corn syrup or carb-heavy sugars. on top of that delightful and guilt-free sweetness is the slight tang of citrus. this makes it one of the best diet tonic waters available—one you can sip on for a quick refreshment or mix with your favorite alcohols for a delicious bubbly treat. it’s the best of all worlds. if you are looking for a healthy tonic water to fit into your diet, no matter how strict, zevia tonic water is for you. it boasts a long list of health certifications, including being gluten free, non-gmo, kosher, and vegan. if water ever floats your boat, zevia tonic water will float along with you. in fact, zevia claims it’s actually a substitute to tradition diet tonic waters. instead, it calls itself a natural alternative. we respect this commitment to a natural and healthy lifestyle, especially when it doubles as one of the best tonic waters for gin and tonics. if you’re interested in trying something a little better for you, searching for a tonic water that fits your lifestyle, or simply want to experience a new, unique flavor, grab a zevia tonic water and thank us later. check latest price schweppes tonic water if there’s a perfect tonic water for a gin and tonic, this is it. schweppes tonic water doesn’t play around with fancy sweeteners or unique flavor combinations. instead, it relies on good old-fashioned taste that has been around since 1783. that’s right. 1783. we’re not going to claim that this tonic water was developed as the perfect mixer for post-revolutionary war cocktails, but the timing kind of makes sense. regardless of its origins, schweppes tonic water has carved out a space as one of the best tonic waters for vodka, gin and tonic, or any other drink you can dream up. it’s classic, and you can’t understate the value of a classic—especially when it’s been successful for over 200 years. (also works great when making toffee vodka at home). from the shape of the glass bottles to the distinct taste, schweppes tonic water is hands-down one of the best tonic waters on the market and has been for an astoundingly long time. if you haven’t tried it before, we don’t know where you’ve been, but we know where you should go. somewhere that sells schweppes tonic water. like, right now. check latest price fever-tree premium indian tonic water – best tonic water brand here we have another all-natural mixer that avoids artificial and processed flavorings and sweeteners. let us assure you, though, that this is not a run-of-the-mill tonic water trying to separate itself from the pack with gimmicks. no, fever-tree premium indian tonic water is the real deal. take, for example, the unique flavor profile infused into each sip. what is that subtle but delicious flavor, you ask? hand-pressed botanicals from tanzania. we’re not kidding. call it exotic, we call it irresistible. the pure cane sugar and quinine from the congo certainly don’t hurt, either. you won’t look at tonic water the same after you’ve tried fever-tree premium indian tonic water, we can promise you that. this commitment to quality and uniqueness has been ingrained in fever-tree’s identity since its formation. in fact, the company’s founders set out to develop a new and refreshing tonic water that bucked the trend of preservatives and cookie-cutter flavors. love it or hate it, they succeeded in creating a product that doesn’t fit the mold. so, whether you’re looking for the best tonic water for vodka, the best tonic water for gin and tonic, or simply the best tonic water for drinking, we suggest you strongly consider fever-tree premium indian tonic water. a cocktail is typically about ¾ mixer, so don’t settle for anything less than the best. we know we wouldn’t. check latest price summer is coming, be ready there you have it—some of the absolute best tonic waters on the market for drinking or for mixing. with your picturesque summer on the horizon, don’t settle for a less-than-perfect tonic water. nothing is worse than having the perfect afternoon by the pool ruined by a subpar drink. in fact, if a drink isn’t enhancing your experience, why even have it? it’s important to remember that tonic water does contain quinine, so be aware of your body when you use it. some people can be allergic and have their health negatively impacted by tonic water. pregnant women should be especially careful. that being said, unless you are consuming insane quantities of tonic water, chances are you’ll be totally fine. it is used to improve drinks every day—we’re obviously huge fans! so, grab a tonic water from this list, open up that special cabinet full of your favorite beverages, and gather a group of family and loved ones. get out there and enjoy the sun with a swimsuit on and a delicious mixed drink in hand! 23shares sharetweet related posts gin / wine blog how is gin made: key ingredients & techniques – ultimate resource gin what makes the lidl gin so darned popular reviews / wine blog a review of freixenet prosecco prev post the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews next post best non alcoholic gin 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews about 12×75.com 12×75 is a light hearted, comical wine blog which focuses on wine news, reviews, food & interviews with leading figures in the world of wine. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. articles about twelve by seventy five ltd (who have nothing to do with 12×75.com) will the real 12×75 please stand up, please stand up investment firm twelve by seventy five is not 12×75 recent posts best non alcoholic gin 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews most shared posts best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it?... being a native californian but living in nyc, i think i&# 28 shares best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktai... cocktail shakers are used for a variety of reasons in a v 35 shares the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s gu... what is it about opening wine that can sometimes be so an 33 shares interviews stephen browett – farr vintners doug rumsam – bordeaux index mark schuringa – ditton wine traders adon kumar – wine searcher judy leissner – grace vineyard peter lunzer – lunzer investments james miles – liv ex mark bedini – fine+rare david elghanayan – vanquish benjamin wallace – the billionaire’s vinegar paula & stacey golding – premier cru fine wine investments henri lurton – chateau brane-cantenac nigel jagger – octavian simon berry – berry bros. & rudd aline baly – chateau coutet adam brett-smith – corney & barrow maximilian riedel – riedel tony laithwaite – laithwaite’s wine pages about us contact us subscribe #7wordwinereview power… sitemap for great london seo services click away. ©2020 back to top search search close