wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » 5 best wordpress caching plugins to speed up your website (2020) 5 best wordpress caching plugins to speed up your website (2020) last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 345 shares share tweet share pin are you looking for the best wordpress caching plugins? caching helps you speed up your wordpress site and boost performance. in this guide, we will share the best wordpress caching plugins for your site. what is cache? cache is a collection of temporarily stored data for quick access upon request. in computers, information is usually stored on hard disk. when it is requested, a computer needs to run several processes before the information can be presented. caching solves this issue by processing the frequently requested information and then storing it in a temporary storage or memory. this allows computers to access it the file quickly. the same caching concept can also be used by wordpress websites to improve performance and make your website load faster. you see, wordpress is a dynamic content management system. this means that each time a user visits your website, wordpress fetches information from the database and then runs several other steps before the web page is sent to the user’s browser. for details, see our article on how wordpress actually works. this makes your website load slower when a lot of users are visiting it at the same time. caching allows your wordpress site to skip a lot of steps. instead of going through the whole page generation process every time, your caching plugin makes a copy of the page after the first load, and then serves that cached version to every subsequent user. why is caching important caching is important because it reduces the load on your wordpress hosting servers and makes your website run faster. you need proper caching set up to improve your wordpress speed and performance. a faster website improves user experience and encourages users to visit more pages. this also helps you boost engagement and the time users spend on your website. a faster website helps you drive even more traffic to your website from organic search. google gives a significant seo advantage to faster websites which helps you rank higher in search results. that being said, let’s take a look at the best wordpress caching plugins that you can use to boost your website speed. 1. wp rocket wp rocket is the best wordpress caching plugin in the market. it is the easiest and most beginner-friendly caching plugin, which is a big help if you don’t know the technical terms used for different caching options. it allows users to instantly cache their website with one-click. it’s crawler automatically fetches your wordpress pages to build up the cache. the plugin then automatically turns on recommended wordpress caching settings like gzip compression, page cache, and cache pre-loading. wp rocket also includes optional features that you can turn on to further improve performance. this includes lazy loading images, cdn support, dns pre-fetching, minification, and more. 2. w3 total cache w3 total cache is one of the most popular wordpress caching plugins. it is a comprehensive wordpress caching plugin with a ton of options which may make it appear a bit intimidating for beginners. it includes all the features you will need to properly set up wordpress cache. this includes page cache, object cache, gzip compression, limited minification support, cdn support, and more. beginners may find w3 total cache a bit difficult to use. for detailed setup instructions, see our article on how to install and set up w3 total cache plugin. 3. wp super cache wp super cache is another popular wordpress caching plugin. it is free and comes highly recommended by many of the top wordpress hosting companies. wp super cache plugin includes all recommended caching features that you will need to speed up your website. this includes gzip compression, page cache, cache pre-loading, cdn support, advanced cache preload, and more. it includes a comprehensive settings section with a separate tab for easy setup. for detailed instructions, see our article on how to install and set up wp super cache plugin. 4. sucuri firewall sucuri is the best wordpress firewall and security plugin. as a website firewall, sucuri comes with a built-in option to cache your website content and enable gzip compression with a click of the button. it is the best option for any website because sucuri is a dns level firewall. this means that they can serve cached content to your users even before their request reaches your website. this gives your website an incredible performance boost. 5. built-in cache plugins from hosting caching helps significantly reduce the load on hosting servers allowing them to perform optimally. this is why many managed wordpress hosting companies now offer their own built-in caching solutions. if your website is hosted with one of the following hosting companies, then you can use their built-in caching plugins for your websites. sg supercacher siteground offers a built-in caching solution with all their hosting plans. it can be enabled by from your hosting account’s cpanel dashboard. once enabled, you can install and activate the sg optimizer plugin to manage supercacher settings directly from your wordpress admin area. wp engine caching wp engine is one of the best managed wordpress hosting companies. their hosting plans come with built-in caching and performance optimization. you can manage settings and clear cache from your wordpress admin dashboard. simply click on the wp engine menu and under the general settings tab you can manage wp engine cache settings. for more advanced caching options, you can install and activate wp engine advanced cache plugin. the plugin provides you some additional controls to manage wp engine cache settings for your website. bluehost caching bluehost is one of the biggest hosting companies in the world and an officially recommended wordpress hosting provider. their hosting plans include built-in caching that you can enable from your hosting dashboard. after logging into your hosting account, select your site from ‘my sites’ page and then click on the performance tab. from here you can turn the cache on / off and change other advanced caching settings. we hope this article helped you find the wordpress caching plugin to speed up your website. you may also want to see our list of best wordpress plugins for business websites. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 345 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 16 commentsleave a reply nancy says: oct 14, 2019 at 3:39 pm the bluehost portal is different now. i selected asset & web pages option, as that was what was recommended. it gives me the option at the bottom to clear my cache (everything or just specific urls). should i do this? little worried, since it can’t be undone! i use smush plugin to compress my photos. my site seems to load quickly. what are links i can test the speed or is that on my dashboard? newbie learning new things every day. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 15, 2019 at 9:55 am thank you for letting us know about the update. you would clear your cache should your site have trouble displaying content but it should not break anything even if you clear the cache. for more about your site’s speed, you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wordpress-performance-speed/ reply heidi says: aug 27, 2019 at 4:55 am i am with bluehost so guess i could use their caching but there is another plugin that sounds worthwhile called wp optimize, which is supposed to be great for caching but also compresses images and optimises your database. but i’m wondering if this (or any other cache plugin) would conflict with the caching functionality in bluehost? (although there is an article on bluehost’s website that recommends using wp super cache, which suggests it wouldn’t conflict, but this also makes me wonder if they don’t think their own caching is sufficient?). reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 10:07 am you would want to check with bluehost for the specifics in case that is an old article but normally you should only have one caching plugin active at a time reply heidi says: aug 28, 2019 at 9:48 pm thanks, yeh i remember reading that somewhere. so does bluehost’s caching ability count as a plugin? i.e. if i turn on caching in bluehost does that mean i shouldn’t install a separate caching plugin? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 29, 2019 at 10:18 am if you find a plugin from bluehost on your site then it’s a wordpress plugin, otherwise, it would be a second level of caching ayush singh says: may 14, 2019 at 3:19 pm is there any problem if i use all of this. should i use all or only one reply wpbeginner support says: may 15, 2019 at 10:46 am you should only use one caching plugin to prevent conflicts reply ajay says: jan 29, 2019 at 2:05 pm keep up the great work! i am using wp rocket on my site and it help me a lot. thanks for the efforts you put it in this article. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 30, 2019 at 10:47 am you’re welcome, glad our articles are helpful reply ali says: jan 16, 2019 at 12:32 am where is wp fastest cache?! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 16, 2019 at 11:34 am we didn’t include it in the list because it didn’t meet all the criteria that we have for our list reply alex morabin says: sep 15, 2018 at 9:51 am i am using wp super cache and it seems to be a wonderful plugin for me to speed up my site. reply sorin says: aug 26, 2018 at 8:12 pm wp rocket user for a couple of years now and going strong. be it a wordpress + woocommerce or just a wordpress site, it’s going great and strong. plus they update it often, and fix any problems sometimes before i encounter them :-)) on a side note, wp engine cache is pretty neat too reply ray says: nov 10, 2018 at 3:32 pm if you using some managed host like wp engine so do not install the cache plugins it will conflict. do not use like super cache or wp rocket. you can disable some junks stuff use speed demon plugin and only using the cache from their hosting servers (nginx fastcgi) reply parveen chetiwal says: aug 25, 2018 at 5:02 pm thank you so much for the article you really inspire us reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.