home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers promotion use social media by joan selby are you a writer that’s trying to make full use of snapchat, but have no idea how to get that done? snapchat is a great tool that has a lot of functionality and taking full advantage of that is a no-brainer. even if you’re a beginner with snapchat you can get a lot of use out of it without a steep learning curve. with that thought in mind, here are some of the top creative ways that snapchat can add value to a writer: 1. behind the scene looks allow the audience to get a behind the scene look at the content you are writing. as the saying goes, a picture can tell a thousand words, so using a lot of high quality pictures can help set the scene for the audience. also the depth of the connection will increase as you are able to show what things you have seen for yourself. keep in mind that you can also use the pictures taken as material for content. let’s say that there is a picture which captures an idea very well, then you can talk about that picture in your content. taking pictures is another way of note taking that’s fast and very easy to do. nowadays with the amount of storage space available on a smartphone there is no reason not to take as many pictures as you need. you can literally take thousands of pictures before you begin to run out of storage space on the average smartphone. 2. connect with other writers snapchat is a social app, it might not provide the connectivity tools of a facebook, but it is still a great way to get in touch with other people. you could connect with other writers that are also making use of snapchat. collaborating with others is easy and part of the success of snapchat is how easy they have made connecting with others. you can even interact with various services and companies such as cisco, bustle, superior papers, hubspot. being a writer can be a lonely world at times. picture johnny depp in the movie the secret window, who is tucked away in the woods in a cabin and you get the idea of how a lot of writers feel. however, in the modern age it doesn’t have to be like that for writers and snapchat does a great job of allowing everyone to connect without it being a hassle – even writers. whenever you get stuck with writer’s block you could hit up your favourite writers in the social circle for advice. there is no better person to turn to than another writer when you need help for material. they understand the perils of being stuck so they will want to help, and you can return the favour in the future. 3. interact with the crowd if you’re a writer who has a following then snapchat is a great way to interact with your audience. failing to keep good levels of engagement with your audience members may lead to a lot of them getting bored. you can share a number of things with audience members such as pictures of places you have been, so next time they read a piece of content from you they will be able to visualize it a lot better. furthermore you can keep them informed on things that you have in the pipeline via the snapchat account. keeping the audience in anticipation allows the hype for a piece of content to be built up, then when it is finally released they will be much more eager to read it. just don’t give all the info away as that will not build up the anticipation as much. 4. promos you can run promotions on your snapchat to show just how much you value the following. if you release ebooks then perhaps you could do a 30% off coupon for all members of the snapchat following, or if you write books, then perhaps the following will get their copy of the book a week earlier than the general public. you can get really creative when you create the promotions, and they are a good way to build the following as more people will join in the hopes of getting their hands on a promotion the next time you release content. 5. account takeovers the point of an account takeover is to allow others to add excitement to your snapchat account by producing content that will appeal to your target audience. top brands are allowing influencers to run wild with your snapchat account for this very reason. it gets them a lot of free marketing as they do not need to come up with material, the influencer does all of the work for them. if there is someone who you think could add value to your snapchat account then you can take part in an account takeover, and perhaps that person will allow their snapchat account to be accessed by you. this type of swapping is common and when utilized correctly allows the audience increase of both accounts to be obtained in a mutually beneficial way. account takeovers are also a great way to switch things up when you feel your updates are becoming rather repetitive and bland. it’s a way of getting fresh ideas for your snapchat account without having to do much yourself. creative ways to use snapchat now that you have a great idea of how to harness the power of snapchat take the time to make use of it for the reasons above. even if you don’t immediately see how snapchat may benefit you as a writer, have fun exploring its abilities. you might even find you never want to go without it again. tweet200 pin17 share94 311 shares related posts qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? by laura tong seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) by kylie ora lobell about the author joan selby joan selby is a content marketer at superiorpapers, former teacher and fancy shoelover. a writer by day and reader by night. find her on twitter and facebook. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >