faq testimonials pricing member login sign up make this your best year ever set goals and actually accomplish them with the 5 days to your best year ever course. register now tired of setting the same goals year after year? you have the potential to live the life of your dreams in this year. but when you think about the future, all you see are roadblocks and obstacles. good news: you can have your best year ever, despite past setbacks. traditional goal-setting has failed you. what you need is an entirely different approach… get started hi, i'm michael hyatt if you’re a business person, entrepreneur, blogger, speaker, pastor, parent, or someone who simply wants to live more intentionally, i can help. as the former ceo of one of the largest publishers in the world and the current ceo of a fast-growing company, i learned how to set big goals and actually achieve them. in the past few years, i’ve been able to… become a #1 new york times and wall street journal bestselling author grow my company to 8-figures in record time be featured on the inc. 5000 list three years in a row pour into my marriage of over 40 years. stay present for my 5 adult daughters and grandchildren. close the gap between reality and your dreams. i attribute all of my success to a proven goal-setting framework—a simple but powerful process that i’ve built and refined over the course of many years. not only has this system helped me achieve my goals, it’s helped over 25,000 people achieve theirs. it’s called 5 days to your best year ever. 5 days to your best year ever will help you build on the goal-setting framework of the full focus planner to set goals you actually achieve. would you be willing to invest a few hours in order to set yourself up for a year of success? that’s what 5 days to your best year ever does. it’s a powerful online workshop that empowers you to set yourself up for your best year ever over the course of just 5 days. invest in 5 days now to make the remaining 360 the best you’ve ever had. this is the most efficient way to finally achieve your biggest goals and take control of your year. start today 5 days to your best year ever success stories nancy found the clarity she needed to make the next 15 years of her life with her spouse more meaningful. nancy's story amy used the 5 days to your best year ever process to graduate with her masters degree. amy's story caleb built and sold a 7-figure company, started another successful company, and built it up while having more time with his kids and more time for vacation. caleb's story keith beat his goal of leaving his job by 3 months, and went full-time in his own business. keith's story ginger grew her client base by 333% in the first 9 months of using the 5 days to your best year ever process. ginger's story bobby used the 5 days to your best year ever process to buy his dream house on the lake. bobby's story write your success story what you'll learn in just 5 days: one the critical ingredient to experiencing happiness. two three powerful truths to create instant mental breakthrough. three a way to quickly identify why you keep getting stuck. four an exercise that systematically lays the groundwork for your best year ever. five how to turn past failures into future successes. six my proven seven-part formula for setting no-fail goals. seven targeted templates for identifying your top seven to ten goals. eight techniques for tapping into your intrinsic motivation to sustain motivation and momentum. nine three proven tactics to help you automate your goal attainment month-to-month and increase your chances of success all year long. a simple investment to achieve your goals course $297 or 3 payments of $96 online learning 5 lesson video + audio course downloadable workbook and action plan watch or listen on the go via teachable ios app full year of access 30-day money back guarantee buy course or purchase via payment plan there’s absolutely no risk i offer a 30-day money-back guarantee if you buy 5 days to your best year ever today and don’t agree that it’s worth every penny i said it was, i will promptly refund your money. no questions asked. no hassle. you have my word on it. just send contact support at bestyearever.me/support and we will promptly refund your money if it’s within 30 days of your purchase date. michael s. hyatt you can achieve your goals with ease spend just five days with this goal-setting process and you can learn the secrets of goal achievement. the choice for whether or not you want to achieve your goals is up to you. you can either set the same goals for next year, or join 5 days to your best year ever and let this finally be the year you close the gap between reality and your dreams. buy the course today. sincerely, michael hyatt register now frequently asked questions q: will i receive anything in the mail? a: no. this product 100% digital. the good news is that you will not have to wait for this program to arrive in the mail. you will get instant access. you can begin your journey within minutes of making the decision to buy. q: what happens after i purchase 5 days to your best year ever? a: after you submit your order, you’ll create a username and password. this is how you’ll access the members’ area. that’s where you’ll find all of the video content, download the workbook, and access any bonus content. you will also receive an email confirmation of your purchase. q: how does the best year ever course compare to the new your best year ever book? a: the 5 days to your best year ever course has been designed for action and accessibility. the most important information has been broken down into practical steps so that you can easily walk through the goal-setting process and implement it piece by piece. with our workbook and course, you’ll experience the most efficient way to set your goals for the year. the your best year ever book focuses on all the research that informs the course. we explain the background behind the proven framework and provide case studies for illustration. where the book centers on why, the course emphasizes how. if you’re the type of person who loves to dive into the facts and relevant information that go into personally designing your best year ever, you will want the book. if you want to experience the information in a transformational way and implement the key concepts in a straightforward approach, you will want to get the course. q: what if i use the full focus planner? do i need this course? a: 5 days to your best year ever explores the science and practical strategies behind goal achievement. it builds on the framework that’s set in the planner. if you go through this course, and use the full focus planner, your chances of achieving your goals will significantly increase. you’ll also learn new ways to maximize your use of the planner with this course. buy the course and make your goal achievement effortless. q: how is 5 days to your best year ever different from free to focus and michael’s living forward book? a: all of these products work together, but at different levels. living forward gives you a 30,000 foot view of your life by helping you create your life plan. 5 days to your best year ever gives you the 10,000 foot view, showing you how to set compelling annual goals. free to focus meets you at ground zero and empowers you to make progress on a daily basis. 5 days to your best year ever is exceptional for those who want to set long-term and short-term goals and see them achieved within a 12 month period. free to focus and living forward are complementary, and many people like to purchase all three because they are each in-depth on different subjects. q: what if this product doesn’t meet my needs? a: no problem. i offer a full 30-day money-back guarantee. if you buy 5 days to your best year ever today and don’t agree that it’s worth every penny i said it was, i will promptly refund your money. no questions asked. no hassle. you have my word on it. (see the certificate above). just contact us at bestyearever.me/support and we will promptly refund your money if it’s within 30 days of your purchase date. (okay, if it’s the middle of the night here, it might be the next day.) q: are my credit/debit card details secure? a: yes. all payments are processed through our payment processor and are 100% secure. q: can i get access to the course all at once or only in pieces? a: since this course is designed to be completed in less than a week, you will receive access to all five lessons instantly when you place your order. this allows you to go at your own speed and engage with the material whenever it’s most convenient for you. q: how long will i have access to this program? a: you will have access to the online course for the next year. however, you can download the workbooks and bonus materials to your local computer. q: what if i have a question or need support? a: we are here to help. simply contact us at bestyearever.me/support, and we’ll be happy to assist you. achieve your goals and change your life discover the framework for successful goal achievement and your entire life can change. invest in 5 days to your best year ever today. order today permissions policy privacy policy support ©2020 michael hyatt & company