5 healthy drinks to keep you energized all the day – lifestyle by ps
  home sweatshirts t-shirts blog expand submenu blog collapse submenu blog fashion fitness grooming log in create account cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us your cart close cart site navigation home sweatshirts t-shirts blog fashion fitness grooming log in search cart cart 5 healthy drinks to keep you energized all the day mar 25, 2020 health is important for you to get going throughout the day. you wouldn’t want to feel lethargic and tired throughout the day as it will impact your productivity. thus, you need to have a heavy breakfast so that your body gets enough energy to get you started. taking healthy drinks in the morning is the best option to refresh your body. some of the healthy drinks that you can have with breakfast are: a morning glass of water the benefits of drinking a glass full of water once you get up in the morning are well known. it helps in flushing out toxins and provides hydration after six to seven hours of sleep. drinking water in the morning also improves metabolism. you can also add lemon to your early morning glass of water. this will provide your body the vitamin c that boosts the immune system. apple cider vinegar is also a good option to add to your glass of water. it helps in lowering blood sugar and kills pathogens. vegetable juice vegetables consist of a lot of essential vitamins and minerals, especially green vegetables like spinach, kale, etc. you can pick vegetables that are rich in iron for making your morning glass of juice. this will improve the oxygen supply to your body cells and you will feel more energetic. your mental focus will be better throughout the day and you will feel less lethargic. thus, try including a glass of vegetable juice in your breakfast for living a healthy lifestyle. smoothies smoothies are the best alternative to a healthy drink. you can get some smoothie cans and have them on-the-go as well. you can pick fruit smoothies, tomato smithies or vegetable smoothies as per your choice. all these are rich in vitamins and minerals that boost metabolism and keep you refreshed throughout the day. immune-boosting smoothies that are rich in fiber, proteins, and vitamins are also available in the market. pick the one that suits your needs. coffee coffee is a known energy booster. caffeine present in coffee improves the body alertness and makes you more productive. coffee also contains antioxidants called polyphenols that reduce stress in the cells and kill free radicals. coffee is also known to lower the risk of heart disease. thus you should try drinking 3 or more cups of coffee in a day. you can also carry coffee pods to enjoy a cup of coffee anytime in the day. green tea if you don’t like taking coffee in the morning, then you can try taking green tea. green tea has a lot of medicinal benefits. it has small amounts of caffeine that helps in reducing oxidative stress and inflammation in the body. taking green tea daily lowers the risk of getting type 2 diabetes and helps in weight loss as well. taking any of the above-mentioned healthy drinks will get you started with high energy. you wouldn’t feel any distress while navigating a tough day. so, drink at least one healthy drink in the morning to live a healthy lifestyle. tags: 5 healthy drinks share share on facebook tweet tweet on twitter pin it pin on pinterest our site is built on shopify. you can too build a money making store. start your store on shopify click here to try shopify for free (14 days free trial with this link) more from the blog australian veganism: how to transition well in the plant-based lifestyle ... read more 5 tips for recovering faster after a sports injury ... read more how to stay fit during quarantine ... read more ← back to fitness disclosure : lifestyle by ps is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us facebook twitter pinterest instagram google plus © 2020, lifestyle by ps ecommerce software by shopify paypal inr aud cad eur gbp usd search