sign in to your forbes account or register please help us continue to provide you with free, quality journalism by turning off your ad blocker on our site. for instructions on how to disable your ad blocker, click here.i’ve turned off my ad blocker or sign in to continue using an ad blocker thank you for signing in. if this is your first time registering, please check your inbox for more information about the benefits of your forbes account and what you can do next! i agree to receive occasional updates and announcements about forbes products and services. you may opt out at any time. i'd like to receive the forbes daily dozen newsletter to get the top 12 headlines every morning.forbes takes privacy seriously and is committed to transparency. we will never share your email address with third parties without your permission. by signing in, you are indicating that you accept our terms of service and privacy statement. billionaires all billionaires world's billionaires forbes 400 america's richest self-made women china's richest india's richest indonesia's richest korea's richest thailand's richest japan's richest australia's richest taiwan's richest singapore's richest philippines' richest hong kong's richest malaysia's richest money & politics 2020 money innovation all innovation 5g ai big data cio network cloud cloud 100 consumer tech cybersecurity enterprise tech everbridge brandvoice | paid program games green tech healthcare oracle brandvoice | paid program sap brandvoice | paid program science servicenow brandvoice | paid program social media t-mobile for business brandvoice | paid program venture capital leadership all leadership careers cfo network cmo network deloitte brandvoice | paid program diversity & inclusion education forbeswomen google cloud brandvoice | paid program leadership strategy under 30 working remote money all money banking & insurance crypto & blockchain etfs & mutual funds fintech hedge funds & private equity investing markets personal finance premium investing newsletters retirement taxes wealth management business all business aerospace & defense energy food & drink hollywood & entertainment manufacturing media mitsubishi heavy industries brandvoice | paid program policy real estate retail sportsmoney transportation small business all small business entrepreneurs franchises small business strategy lifestyle all lifestyle amway brandvoice | paid program arts boats & planes cars & bikes dining forbeslife forbes travel guide spirits travel vices watches lists all lists advisor all advisor the best credit cards of 2020 best travel credit cards best business credit cards best credit card sign up bonuses best rewards credit cards best student credit cards best cash back credit cards best balance transfer credit cards best hotel credit cards best airline credit cards best first credit cards best credit cards for bad credit chase sapphire preferred card citi double cash card the platinum card from american express ink business preferred credit card bank of america premium rewards credit card chase sapphire reserve card best tax software of 2020 best travel insurance companies featured 5 innovations changing the future of food 30 under 30 2020 aarp brandvoice | paid program abb brandvoice | paid program chase home lending brandvoice | paid program cole haan brandvoice | paid program dna of success forbes ai: forbes insights with ibm | paid program forbes analytics plus with teradata | paid program forbes insights with arm treasure data investor forecast: 5 key trends shaping your financial future money 2020 set up for success: scale your small business the leukemia & lymphoma society brandvoice | paid program today's military brandvoice | paid program voices of success well earned: the world's wealthiest celebrate new milestones breaking all breaking coronavirus more forbes daily cover stories forbes editors' picks daily dozen briefing crypto confidential newsletters forbes shopping forbes coupons forbes 8 forbes video dark capital forbes magazine investing digest free issue of forbes site feedback tips corrections privacy terms adchoices reprints & permissions © 2020 forbes media llc. all rights reserved beta this is a beta experience. you may opt-out by clicking here edit story forbes innovation teamforbes staff innovation share to facebook share to twitter share to linkedin farming, one of the world’s oldest professions, is increasingly at the cutting edge of science and technology. at the forbes 2019 agtech summit, which took place sept. 18-19 in indianapolis, leaders from across the farming industry discussed agricultural innovations developed to solve problems including climate change and an aging workforce. here are five factors experts say will impact the future of our food supply. an estimated one-third of human greenhouse gas emissions are from agriculture. farms have the ability to help reverse this trend by making changes in their agriculture practices. these include planting more cover crops like grasses and rotating crops, and using organic fertilizers like manure instead of chemical fertilizers. all of these changes result in healthier soil and the ability of farmlands to draw down carbon from the atmosphere, offsetting global warming trends. at a panel about regenerative agriculture at the forbes agtech summit, jay watson, who works in sustainability at food producer general mills, described the practice as “agriculture that protects but also naturally enhances” resources. microbes play a crucial role in farming—good bacteria can help plant growth, while bad fungi can decimate crops. some companies are engineering microbes to both protect plants and enhance growth. “we’re really at a renaissance time for microbial products,” said brynne stanton, co-founder of joyn bio, at a panel about microbes at the summit. the joint venture between synthetic biology company ginkgo bioworks and pharmaceutical giant bayer aims to reduce the use of synthetic fertilizer by genetically engineering microbes to provide more nutrients to crops. “it’s really about going in and engineering what nature’s already given us to provide additional options to growers,” said stanton. although they haven’t been tested in the field, one of the microbes joyn scientists are working on produces a biofilm to stimulate plant growth, protect roots from destructive pests and help plants absorb nutrients from the soil. amid concerns about nutrition and climate change, plant-based meats seem like an attractive alternative to traditional sausages and hamburgers. it’s a hot area led by two new companies: impossible foods and beyond meat. older companies are also getting into the game in hopes of wooing a new demographic. take smithfield foods, a company known for producing pork. it recently announced a new soy-based line of products including burgers, sausage, meatballs and ground meat. “we realized we needed to be in this space,” said joe weber, who manages growth at the company, at a panel about soybeans at the forbes summit. livestock disease is a nightmare for ranchers and farmers. these diseases can spread quickly, kill millions of animals a year and cost a fortune to treat and contain. several startups are coming up with solutions to this problem. one, swinetech, focuses not on a disease but on a destructive behavior common among pigs. the company uses sensors to detect when sows are accidentally resting too much weight on their piglets, say, while they sleep or during a feed. when a piglet’s squeal is detected, a patch on the mother’s side vibrates and alerts the mother to stand up. another startup, advanced animal diagnostics (aad), allows farmers to quickly detect infectious disease in animals with a few drops of blood or fecal matter. early disease detection can help farmers save money by preventing other animals from getting sick and conserving the use of antibiotics, said joy drach, president and ceo of aad. “our focus is on being the early warning that the livestock industry needs,” drach said during her pitch at the summit’s thrive midwest challenge. farming has a rich history in america, but now there are only about two million farms in the united states, and the average age of u.s. farmers is 58 years old. in an effort to help more young people engage in agriculture, experts are focusing on urbanization and tech. jennifer sirangelo, president and ceo of the national 4-h council, said agricultural programs need to go to cities in addition to more traditional rural areas. “we need to bring agriculture to where the people are," she said at the summit, citing multiple 4-h programs in new york city. in addition to reaching younger future farmers, a push for urbanization also helps foster more diversity. emphasizing agriculture’s growing use of technology also broadens its appeal. agriculture jobs include positions in software development, engineering, marketing and many other common career paths. “young people help create technology, not just consume it,” sirangelo said. forbes innovation team print site feedback tips corrections reprints & permissions terms privacy © 2020 forbes media llc. all rights reserved. adchoices