home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career freelancing by eva webster do you dream of having a thriving freelance writing career? there are millions of wanna-be writers out there who dream of the work-at-home lifestyle, raking in the dollar bills, enjoying mid-day yoga classes, and sipping coffee with their cat sleeping peacefully on their laps. most writers have wild imaginations, but they don’t have the skills or the knowledge to back up these dreams. it takes more than a journalism degree and cold calling to make it in the freelance world. these five strategies will help you get started on your way to a thriving freelance career. by the way, i can tell you that sleeping cats on the lap are overrated – they never sit still and are known to send illegible emails without your knowledge but you can get cash loans speedy. 1. don’t say no to anything (well, almost anything) you may be very confident in your writing abilities, but that confidence doesn’t translate to making money. many writers believe that because they have been writing stories since they were 3, they shouldn’t have to do anything for free. while there is definitely a debate in the writing world around writing to gain experience or exposure, and my opinion may not be appreciated by many experienced writers, doing anything you can for exposure and experience is an important first step in actually making it. i started my current position as a writer making one cent a word and i’m now the director of our company. i wasn’t afraid to say yes, but i also wasn’t afraid to ask for more when i felt i had proven my worth. everyone has to start somewhere, and whether that’s by doing a free trial article or guest posting with various publications, building a beautiful portfolio of varied work is very important in the freelance world. even after 25 years of writing, i’m still writing for free when i need to. the article that you’re reading right now? completely free. why would i do that? because by writing this guest post, i’m getting valuable backlinks to my website, i’m espousing my thought knowledge for a great audience, and i’m continuing to build my portfolio with worthy, relevant, and new content. by giving the opportunities that are presented to you a chance, you might find that they flourish and so does your career. that said, know when to walk away if you are asked for too much or the potential client seems shady. betting on yourself is a great way to get started. 2. always do what you say you are going to in the business and the freelance world, integrity is uber-important if you want a steady stream of freelance writing jobs. doing what you say you are going to do should not only be your mantra, it should be painted on your wall in bright colors. in the harried world of content, deadlines are paramount and if you aren’t meeting them, you aren’t even doing the minimum expected of you. when you are assigned a project, be sure that the expectations are clear and that you can actually handle the workload before committing to it. most clients would rather hear that you need extra time from the start, then have you make an excuse when you aren’t done the work. whatever you do, never copy and paste from another site without attributing the source. plagiarism is rampant in the content world, and while you want to make a name for yourself, don’t let that name be ‘liar.’ if you are making excuses, contrived or not, don’t expect your career to flourish. find a way to run those excuses out of your life and respect your commitments. the number of excuses i’ve heard throughout my career about why work is substandard or not complete is laughable, and those writers no longer work on my team. everyone has a family, and medical emergencies, weather issues, and internet troubles, but if you can still persevere regardless, you’ll ensure that your career stays on the path that you intend. when my son was born two weeks early, i took my laptop with me to the hospital so that i could finish a project i was almost ready to deliver on. as a freelancer, you don’t have the opportunities that traditional employees have to leave clients in the lurch. if you want to keep those clients, you have to do what you say you are going to do, regardless if a baby tries to derail those efforts. 3. find a specialty as i said above, there are millions of writers trying to make a name in this business. you can stand out by finding a niche and becoming a superhero in it. if you can prove yourself to be an expert real estate copywriter or know the ins and outs of digital marketing, you’ll be two steps ahead of all of those other writers i mentioned. one word of advice is to find a niche that you love. don’t become a technology writer if thinking about tech makes you want to have a nap on your desk. on the other hand, don’t choose a topic with an overly-saturated market of writers, unless you know that you have skills and expertise that will beat out most other writers in that niche. choose something you believe in and feel you can write fluidly and with knowledge in a way that has your clients begging for more. 4. build relationships in almost any career, relationships are paramount. in a freelance writing career, your relationships are the lifeblood of what you do. networking and soliciting clients should be a major part of your daily routine as a freelance writer. don’t rely on your current clients to carry you through the winter. be proactive and always be building relationships so you can take yourself to the next level. you may feel like you are too busy to network, because you have too much work, but that work could drop off at anytime, leaving you with little-to-no income coming in. the best ways to build relationships as a freelancer is to just get yourself out there – on social media, commenting on blog posts, reaching out to influencers, and writing guest posts (see strategy number one!). 5. create a portfolio whether you’re a working freelancer or not, you should be building a portfolio of work that you can show off and get yourself more work. build yourself a website where you can showcase your best work or look into the many free options available online. as well, you should have an active presence on social media, where you are publishing the links to your content regularly. you may just gain a client or two simply through a social media search that brings up your work. this is another task that should be on your weekly to-do list and shouldn’t be left for dead when your paid work piles up. marketing yourself regularly is the best way to become successful as a freelance professional. build yourself a thriving freelance writing career. a thriving freelance career is up for grabs for any writer who is willing to sacrifice their time and set aside their ill-conceived expectations. these five strategies should get you started on the right track towards becoming a successful writer. tweet pin share related posts how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer by vartika kashyap 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer by mary jaksch about the author eva webster eva webster is the managing director at article-writing.co, a one-stop shop for content for businesses. freelancing since before the internet was the place to be, she’s built up a wealth of knowledge about the content industry and the freelance business. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option visualize, organize, and write anything faster and easier than ever before! writer's blocks is simple, powerful writing software that makes your writing faster, easier and smarter. grab the fully-functional free trial of writer's blocks here make real money from your blogging – today, not in three year’s time the blogger's guides - complete four pack grab your guides here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >