back to udemy login sign up back to udemy sign up login back to blog 5 lesser known instruments to learn on uncommon musical instrument day july 31, 2019 by maggie troedsonudemy news source: getty images today (july 31) marks uncommon musical instrument day, a special day to appreciate the weird, bizarre, and truly extraordinary instruments of the world—from the water-powered hydrolauphone to the touchless theremin. if you’ve ever imagined yourself blowing a didgeridoo on an australian beach, today is a great reminder to make good on that dream. the intention behind this quirky “holiday” is a noble one: to encourage people to learn to play these exceptional instruments and help spread awareness of their unique contributions to the world of music. but knowing how to get started can be tricky; after all, these aren’t the instruments of your high school marching band! fortunately, we’re here to help. we’ve rounded up some of our favorite beginner courses on interesting instruments on udemy: didgeridoo the didgeridoo is a wind instrument developed by indigenous australians. not only is it rather easy to learn even by those with no musical experience, but studies have shown demonstrable health benefits associated with didgeridoo breathing techniques. https://www.udemy.com/didgeridoo-beginners/ oud the oud is the most popular instrument in arabic music, known for its pear-shaped sound box and distinctive sound. this course will teach you how to play simple songs like “twinkle twinkle little star” as well as popular arabic songs—no previous experience necessary. https://www.udemy.com/learn-oud/ djembe if you’re looking for some stress relief, this instrument is for you. the djembe is a west african hand drum that is both fun and easy to play. https://www.udemy.com/how-to-play-the-djembe-for-beginners/ jews harp also known as the “jaw harp,” “mouth harp,” and other names, this small instrument makes a distinct “boing boing” sound you’ve probably heard before but couldn’t quite place. this course will not only teach you beginner basics but also provide guidance on where to find the tiny instrument for cheap. https://www.udemy.com/play-the-jews-harp/ sitar the sitar is a string instrument that is heard more commonly in india, pakistan, and bangladesh. the exotic sound of the sitar inspired many rock legends of the 60s, from the beatles to the doors. https://www.udemy.com/learn-to-play-the-sitar-from-scratch/ if you’re feeling musically inspired this holiday, consider checking out these courses—and be sure to show us your new skills on instagram and twitter. you can find udemy’s full collection of instrument-based music courses here. previous instructor spotlight: alexandra cote next meet udemy’s 2019 interns! udemy for business become an instructor mobile apps about us careers blog topics support affiliate english copyright @ 2020 udemy, inc. terms privacy policy and cookie policy intellectual property