skip to content college info geek 5 questions: interruptions, social media bios, and reading positions (ep. 290) menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills remote view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new remote work, learn, and succeed from the comforts of your own home. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search 5 questions: interruptions, social media bios, and reading positions (ep. 290) martin boehme last updated march 9, 2020 c.i.g. is supported in part by its readers. if you buy through our links, we may earn an affiliate commission. read more here. hello again, dear listeners, and welcome to another 5 questions episode. in these episodes, if it’s not clear by the 36th of them, we take questions from twitter (thomas | martin), instagram (thomas | martin), email, and the college info geek community on reddit. we then answer them each in rapid-fire succession, speed-dating style. here are the questions we’ve chosen this time around: what should you do to try to stay focused when you’re at a job with an open door policy and interruptions are unavoidable? what’s the best position to read in? do you hardcode all of the posts for cig, or do you use a blogging platform? how can i write an interesting social media bio? should i love a new hobby immediately, even if i’m not good at it? things mentioned in this episode: this week’s episode is sponsored by: skillshare: with thousands of courses in a wide range of different skills, skillshare can help you take things to the next level. if you’re one of the first 500 to use this link, you can also get started with 2 free months of unlimited learning (including thomas’ new habit-building class!) at skillshare.com/geek. brilliant: accelerate your learning in math, science, and computer science. start learning for free at brilliant.org/collegeinfogeek — and if you’re one of the first 200 people to use this link, you’ll also get 20% off your subscription. other things we mentioned in this episode: the skill you’re slowly losing a master class on buying a car – part 1 (ep. 69) a master class on buying a car – part 2 (ep. 70) the path to college, pt. 1: getting accepted the path to college, pt. 2: paying for it the path to college, pt. 3: becoming college-ready cortex linus tech tips on youtube thomas’ habit-building course on skillshare thomas’ productivity course on skillshare tofugu figma underscores peter mckinnon every think on youtube want more cool stuff? you can find all sorts of great tools at my resources page. timestamps: 0:08:30 – focusing while getting constantly distracted 0:19:01 – the best position to read in 0:27:18 – sponsor: skillshare (learning new skills) 0:30:29 – sponsor: brilliant (learning problem-solving skills) 0:33:30 – content management systems vs developing from the ground up 0:42:03 – writing an interesting social media bio 0:51:19 – persevering with hobbies that require skill 1:04:50 – conclusion if you enjoyed this episode, subscribe to the podcast on itunes! it’s easy, you’ll get new episodes automatically, and it also helps the show gain exposure 🙂 you can also leave a review! here’s an image for sharing this episode on social media: want to earn better grades? did you find this article useful? over 220,000 awesome students are learning how to dominate their classes, get more done, and land the jobs they want — and you should too. join in, and i'll also send you a free copy of my book on earning better grades! get the book free read these next… how to actually stop wasting time on the internet the internet can be one big time-sink if you don't learn how to tame it. use these techniques to prevent yourself from wasting time. so you can get more done. 35+ high school graduation gifts any grad will love graduating high school is an exciting time full of possibilities. here are over 35 high school graduation gifts perfect for celebrating this special time. popular posts the ultimate guide to building a personal website how to easily stay organized and productive in college how to make an extra $1,000 a month (25 ways that actually work) brain fog: why you have it (plus 5 ways to fix it) more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.