newsletter 5 reasons to stock up on pistachios, plus 5 inventive recipes medically reviewed by amy richter, rd — written by sarah garone on march 20, 2020 new complete protein sleep aid keeps hanger at bay antioxidants high in fiber recipes between cashew ice cream, macadamia nut milk, and almond flour, it feels like there’s nothing these small-but-mighty nuts can’t do. but there’s one nut that doesn’t always get its share of the spotlight: pistachios. there’s a reason you don’t often see pistachios in baking flours and alt-milks. in the united states, they’re only grown in california, arizona, and new mexico, so they’re not as prevalent (read: not as cheap) as some of their counterparts. still, their shorter supply doesn’t mean they don’t come with big health benefits — and, of course, a distinctively delicious taste. here are some reasons to consider splurging on pistachios next time you’re at the store, plus five recipes that go way beyond spumoni ice cream. share on pinterest 1. they’re a complete protein vegans, rejoice! according to the american pistachio growers, a 2019 analysis of the protein content in pistachios revealed that, not only are the nuts a good source of protein at 6 grams per serving, but that roasted american pistachios are a complete protein. a complete protein contains all nine essential amino acids — the kind the human body can’t make on its own and needs to get from food. since most complete proteins are animal based, this comes as an exciting discovery for non-meat eaters. and there’s more big news: on the test that measures foods’ complete protein content, pistachios scored higher than other plant based options like quinoa, chickpeas, soybeans, and cooked rice. 2. they might help you sleep need help nodding off? try pistachios as a bedtime snack. according to a 2017 study, the little green guys contain more melatonin (the compound known for helping you get your zzz’s) than any other nut. to give them a chance to work, reach for pistachios 30 to 60 minutes before turning in. 3. they keep you fuller longer nuts get a bad rap for being high-fat and high-calorie, but calories aren’t a bad guy. they’re what you need for energy, plus nuts also have tons of fiber and protein which means your body digests them more slowly than refined foods. if you’re looking for a snack that you can eat more of, pistachios are an especially good choice. compared to other nuts, like pecans, brazil nuts, macadamia nuts, or hazelnuts, they contain fewer calories per ounce. 4. they’re full of antioxidants antioxidants are compounds in foods that can bring about these benefits by “cleaning” cells of harmful free radicals. and it just so happens that pistachios are full of them. pistachios’ top scoring antioxidants are lutein, which promotes eye health, beta carotene, which may boost long-term cognition, and gamma-tocopherol, which reduces systemic inflammation. plenty of good reasons to get cracking! 5. they’re super high fiber pistachios are a surprising source of fiber, with 3 grams per ounce. and since fiber supplements are often chalky and downright gross, we prefer to get our daily dose from food — and tasty food, at that. (we’ll take a pass on the prunes, thanks.) eating enough fiber doesn’t just get things moving in the digestive department. it also boosts the health of your microbiome, aka the friendly bacteria in your gut. though research on good gut bugs is still in its infancy, a thriving microbiome may be associated with benefits like reduced risk of cardiovascular disease, healthier weight, and even better mental health. 5 pistachio recipes pistachios’ lightly floral flavor and satisfying crunch make them a no-brainer in desserts, but there’s a whole world of culinary uses for these nuts. think outside the box (or the shell) with these unique recipes. 1. pistachio crusted fish with lemon-dill aioli (from a chef’s kitchen) the food processor makes quick work of crushing pistachios in this 30-minute dinner. unlike many other nut-crusted fish or meat recipes, there’s no messy egg wash or flour dredging here — simply sprinkle crushed pistachios over flaky white fish! try this one when you want to impress (but are short on time). get the recipe! 2. spinach pistachio pesto pasta (two peas and their pod) the name “pistachio pesto pasta” may be a bit of a tongue twister, but your tongue will happily untwist for the flavor of this weeknight pasta. this recipe combines three healthy green foods — pistachios, basil, and spinach — for a vegetarian main dish that’s packed with nutrients. get the recipe! 3. raspberry pistachio smoothie (the almond eater) pistachios’ high protein and fiber content means they have staying power to keep you satisfied, making them a secret weapon for breakfast. for this fruity pistachio smoothie, whip them up with berries for pretty pastel presentation (and easy on-the-go morning sipping). get the recipe! 4. pistachio cardamom granola (the view from great island) if you’ve never spiced up your baked treats with cardamom, now’s your chance. this nutty granola brings middle eastern flair to breakfast or snack time with a mix of oats, pistachios, raisins, and sesame seeds — held together with honey and cardamom’s chai-flavored finish. get the recipe! 5. pistachio olive oil cake (broma bakery) and finally — because pistachios really do make great desserts — cake! this recipe grinds the little green guys into a smooth consistency before blending them into the batter, where they add flavor, texture, and just a bit of moisture. the ideal end to a mediterranean dinner? you be the judge. get the recipe! sarah garone is a nutritionist, freelance writer, and food blogger. find her sharing down-to-earth nutrition info at a love letter to food or follow her on twitter. medically reviewed by amy richter, rd — written by sarah garone on march 20, 2020 new must reads how cinnamon rolls help ease my hostess anxieties coffee nap: urban legend or bona fide productivity hack? 24 breakfast sandwich recipes that are easy enough for weekdays 27 creative ways to use chickpeas (that aren’t hummus) 21 vegan mushroom recipes for when you want meaty without the meat read this next how cinnamon rolls help ease my hostess anxieties lull in conversation? cinnamon rolls. in need of a group activity? cinnamon rolls. worried about making a dish everyone will like? cinnamon rolls.read more coffee nap: urban legend or bona fide productivity hack? there’s research that shows drinking a cup of coffee right before a nap can help you wake up feeling more alert and refreshed. read on to learn why it…read more 24 breakfast sandwich recipes that are easy enough for weekdays classic breakfast sandwiches bring one image to mind: eggs and melted cheese over bread. while undoubtedly delicious, they're also a tad boring after…read more 27 creative ways to use chickpeas (that aren’t hummus) chickpeas have been pulverized into humble hummus for too long. they deserve a moment in the spotlight, and these genius recipes are making it happen.read more 21 vegan mushroom recipes for when you want meaty without the meat you know when you want meaty flavor without the meat? these healthy mushroom recipes are perfect for those moments. whether you’re vegan or not…read more about contact privacy careers archive advertise with us terms newsletter © 2019 greatist a red ventures company. our content does not constitute a medical consultation. see a certified medical professional for diagnosis.