home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book market your writing promotion by mike loomis editor’s note: happy new year to all our readers! now, let me ask you a question: do your new year’s resolutions include finally taking your writing seriously? despite what you may think, this doesn’t just mean finishing that book, it also means becoming more professional because professional writers know the importance of branding… you’re working on a book, but are you focusing on the right elements? i’m not referring to the grammar, voice, or flow of the book. i’m calling attention to the most overlooked aspect of the business of writing: your personal brand. believe it or not, your brand is more important than your book. below are five reasons why—and guidelines to help improve your brand. 1. agents represent brands in the nonfiction world, a professional web site with an engaging blog is a must. as a niche literary agent, i receive dozens of book proposals per month. no matter what i think of the book’s premise and writing, if the author doesn’t have a web site, i have the opportunity to inform them about the importance of a strong platform. when it comes to signing with a publisher, a mediocre book from an author with 500k instagram followers has a better chance than a remarkable book from someone without a well-read blog on a professional website. agents won’t take on the difficult and speculative work of representation if the author hasn’t invested in their own brand. 2. publishers sign brands yeah, i know—twenty years ago publishers helped create and grow an author’s brand. they discovered amazing writers and promoted them. but now, authors and publishers share the marketing load. (that’s the diplomatic way of stating it.) this might not seem fair to a gifted writer, but let’s consider the flip-side. a publisher wants to know the author is committed enough to their career to invest a few hundred dollars on their brand, and that their blog and social media posts actually resonate with people. it’s in the author’s best interest to take the lead, and plan to successfully sell books to their own audience by creating an online brand. this also gives writers the best shot to receive an offer from a solid publisher. (by the way, a “solid” publisher is one that writes you a check—not the other way around.) in self-publishing, the same holds true. you must build an audience with your writing—now. yes, there have been exceptions—“sleeper” books that quietly wake from obscurity. but if someone loves your blog and your social media posts, it’s very likely they have a connection with your brand—and will buy your book. 3. endorsers evaluate brands endorsements sell books (and sell publishers). admit it, you’ve purchased a book because the foreword was written by someone you respect. a solid brand is key for influential endorsements; and influential endorsements help persuade buyers. when an influencer considers an endorsement request, they’ll first check the author’s web site. only if the brand passes muster will they skim the manuscript. 4. readers buy brands have you ever pre-ordered a book, simply based on your respect for the author? of course! ever purchased a mediocre book from a well-known influencer? i bet it sold a truckload. have you read an amazing book from an unknown author without a blog? sure, but i’d be surprised if it sold over one-hundred copies. seth godin once said, “a book is a souvenir of an idea.” if people connect with you (and your big ideas) investing fifteen dollars on your book is a no-brainer. 5. companies hire brands an author’s business plan must include revenue streams beyond royalties. even for many well-known authors, royalties don’t pay all the bills—especially in the years after a book is published. does your brand have a business plan? is your book the only revenue source in your business model? once someone has enjoyed your book, what’s the next step—hire you to speak at an event? consult? enroll in your course? create a cafeteria of choices for your site’s visitors and make sure the back matter of your book (and your web site) includes options to engage with a clear call to action. how authors build brands brands are built three ways: words, images, and actions. do your words resonate with your audience? (can you prove it?) do your images and photos portray authenticity and personality? (are they true to your personal weirdness?) do your actions prove you’re committed? (do you guest post? do you speak at events? do you offer products and services for sale?) are all three elements cohesive? (do they send the same message?) an established brand means you’re known for all the right reasons. that’s where branding’s cousin, “positioning” comes in. here’s how this works… who’s the best personal finance author? who’s the most helpful relationship expert? when i ask those questions, people (personal brands) come to mind who fill that position. so you must know what position you want to own as a communicator—and work to own it. personal branding does not mean a fake facade i define personal branding as “the public expression of your calling.” remarkable brands are both authentic and persuasive. it’s possible to be authentic but boring, and possible to be persuasive but over-hyped. you must find the balance of both. aspiring authors are always nervous about their brand. the best writers are usually the worst marketers and aren’t about self-promotion. but marketing is part of the business aspect of writing. it’s okay to be scared, but don’t have a scared web site, self-defeating bio, and crummy photos. in other words, the marketplace is crowded, don’t sell yourself short by tolerating a brand that makes you look like a hobbyist. if you’re a first-time author, the goal of your brand is to have people wonder, this writer is amazing—why haven’t i ever heard of them?! think beyond the book create your own category—not just “author” or “writer.” why not a unique combination of your experience, talents, and interests? can you articulate your authentic and persuasive brand in 5 words? my video course, your brand is calling, guides you though this process and more. (and it’s 50% off for readers of writetodone!) agents represent brands. publishers sign brands. endorsers evaluate brands. readers buy brands. and companies hire brands. for a writing career, your brand is more important than your book. so invest in your brand. be bold. and enjoy the process. special offer for write to done readers- 50% 0ff your brand is calling tweet pin6 share153 159 shares related posts how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? by laura tong about the author mike loomis mike loomis helps people launch their dream projects and books. he’s the author of your brand is calling, and my book launch planner. he and his wife live in the mountains of colorado with their pet moose.www.mikeloomis.co ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >