evernote created with sketch. back to blog home sign up or log in asset 10 asset 11 log in created with sketch. back to blog home download app product asset 6 why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features asset 6 web clipper templates spaces integrations - microsoft teams - slack - salesforce community asset 6 our community certified consultants developers events forum support asset 6 help & learning troubleshooting blog company asset 6 about us careers contact us asset 15 facebook asset 14 twitter asset 18 linkedin asset 16 youtube asset 19 medium asset 17 instagram choose a language: english 繁體中文 english français deutsch 日本語 한국어 português español productivity 5 remarkably easy time management tips david perez • june 20, 2019 do you struggle with productivity at work? if so, you’re not alone. research shows the average worker is productive for less than three hours a day. and with constant distractions, looming deadlines, and surprise to-do items materializing on your plate, it’s getting even harder to manage time in the workplace. here are five simple ways you can stop fighting the clock and get more done. 1. keep important information in one place think about all the information related to your last big project. can you see it all at a glance, or is it spread out over multiple apps, websites, files, and scraps of paper? evernote helps you keep the important parts together. in a single note, you can add text, images, emails, web pages, and more. your notes are then synced automatically across all your devices, so you can access them anywhere. this helps you see the things that matter side-by-side, without having to switch between countless sources of info. 2. set a time limit for each task forbes magazine contributor and due company founder john rampton says one of his go-to tips for time management is setting a time limit for each task. by giving yourself a set amount of time to finish something, it’s much easier to cut down on procrastination or outside distractions. because this time limit is self-imposed, the pressure to finish “on time” feels less like a hard deadline and more like a fun way to challenge yourself. 3. prioritize your tasks to-do lists help us manage our time…in theory. but what if you’ve tried them and tasks still keep falling through the cracks? it’s tempting to start with the easy stuff, but this can eat into the time needed for more involved projects. it can also leave you trying to tackle the hardest job at the end of a long workday. instead, try doing more challenging items on your list first. evernote makes it easy to create checklists in any note. use this to schedule your more difficult tasks first, and make your workday feel easier and easier as it goes. 4. plan ahead for your workday going into work without a clear idea of what you want to accomplish is a recipe for procrastination. the more time you spend jumping between activities to figure out where to dive in, the less time you have to get real work done. try one of these planning strategies instead: at the end of each day, update your to-do list for the remainder of the week. this helps you prioritize your tasks and allows you to decompress after a long day of work. if you’re more of a morning person, get to work early and plan your to-do list first. prioritize the most pressing tasks, and create a roadmap for the rest of your day. no matter which option you choose, you can stay on task by setting a reminder in evernote to update your list. 5. get rid of distractions from your phone do you really need an alert every time someone you follow tweets a cat video? if so, no judgment, but it doesn’t have to derail your focus. while taking time to adjust your notification settings can help you avoid distraction, there’s a simpler way that takes literally one second. silence your phone, and place it screen down while you work. after you’ve finished one of your tasks, go ahead and take a five-minute break to check your phone. but we mean it—five minutes. managing your time effectively can be a tricky balancing act, but these tips should help you walk the line. focus on what matters, plan with priorities in mind, don’t let small stuff sap your attention—and get ready to enjoy some hard-earned free time. share article asset 11 organize your work and unclutter your life with evernote. sign up for free more in productivity productivity making the most of working from home learn telecommuters’ secrets for working from home as you tackle it for the first time. productivity the 4 ds of habit creation creating positive habits takes more than just willpower. see how habits are formed and how you can change your behavior to create the life you want. productivity how to make a plan and get what you want in life see how creating action plans can have cascading benefits for life — and how to build a manageable plan toward accomplishing your goals. product why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features web clipper templates spaces integrations - microsoft teams - slack - salesforce community our community certified consultants developers events forum support help & learning troubleshooting blog company about us careers contact us sign up or log in choose blog language: english 繁體中文 english français deutsch 日本語 한국어 português español asset 15 facebook asset 14 twitter asset 19 medium asset 17 instagram asset 16 youtube asset 18 linkedin © 2019 evernote corporation. all rights reserved. security legal privacy