start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising technology advertising 5 reasons why you should be using a vpn jordan fried read full profile share pin it tweet share email in our increasingly digital world, it’s more important than ever to prioritize online privacy and security. over the past few years, we’ve seen developed countries step up their internet surveillance, and in some cases, internet censorship. during the “arab spring,” we watched turkey cut off access to twitter. recently china has openly admitted to censoring the internet. iran has made it near impossible to log on to all popular western social media sites. perhaps worst of all, we’ve learned that even in united states of america, the land of the free and the home of the brave, the government engages in large-scale surveillance that jeopardizes personal privacy. thanks to technological advancements, you can take matters into your own hands and protect yourself while standing up for your rights. perhaps one of the best ways to do this is by using a virtual private network, or vpn for short. vpn technology has been on the rise in recent years, especially with all the hype about the nsa and edward snowden. let’s take a look at 5 reasons why you should be using a vpn: advertising 1. log on to public wifi with confidence. if you’re like me, you’re constantly logging onto the web from coffee shops, airports, and other places that offer public wifi. the problem with public wifi is that it isn’t secure. it’s far too easy for a hacker or network administrator to gain access to your sensitive information while you use public wifi. with a vpn, this is not possible. vpns encrypt your browsing data so you can safely login to your net banking account or even go online shopping without worrying about someone looking at your activity. 2. access blocked content while traveling. if you’re a frequent traveler and find yourself in remote locations a few times a year, you’ll want to use a vpn to access content that is blocked outside of the us. for example, popular on-demand entertainment services like pandora, hulu, netflix, amazon prime, and others are blocked to users who try to access these services with foreign ip address. by using a vpn, not only can you change your foreign ip address to a us ip address, you can also start using these services as if you never left the us in the first place. advertising 3. bypass a restrictive network. if you’re frequently logging onto the web in the workplace or at school, you may experience restrictive network controls. perhaps you can’t log onto facebook, or a certain site is blocked due to keywords found on the site. to bypass this type of restrictive network, you can use a vpn. it will get you past the restrictions, and also encrypt and keep your browsing data private. 4. share files privately. in recent years, there have been massive crackdowns on file sharing around the world. now let me be clear here: i am in no way advocating for you to share or download material that is copyrighted. that’s your own prerogative and you do so at your own risk. i’m simply saying that using a vpn is one way to share legal files, and even illegal files, in privacy. advertising 5. because you have a right to privacy. perhaps the best reason to use a vpn is because you have a right to privacy, and by using a vpn you’re claiming this right. some look at vpn users as people who have something to hide. this is flawed thinking. vpn users are normal citizens, just like you and me, who believe in their right to privacy. there are so many other great reasons to start using a vpn, but the bottom line is it’s more important today than ever to start taking your internet security seriously. i’ve heard far too many horror stories of people having their credit card info or even their entire identities stolen as a result of poor internet safeguards on their part. using a vpn is the first and best step you can take towards protecting yourself on the world wide web. advertising if you have any questions about vpn technology or which vpn services i recommend, i’d be happy to answer your questions in the comment section below. thanks for reading and safe surfing! share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated advertising advertising more by this author jordan fried top 10 best blogs around the world that will inspire your life 5 reasons why 2014 is the year you start using a vpn secure your internet privacy with this guide how virtual private networks work how to make a stunning linkedin profile advertising trending in technology 1 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 2 11 meeting scheduler apps to boost your productivity this year 3 11 google chrome apps & features for getting more done with less effort 4 11 brain training apps to train your mind and improve memory 5 15 productivity chrome extensions to boost productivity in 2020 more by this author jordan fried top 10 best blogs around the world that will inspire your life 5 reasons why 2014 is the year you start using a vpn secure your internet privacy with this guide how virtual private networks work how to make a stunning linkedin profile trending in technology 1 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 2 11 meeting scheduler apps to boost your productivity this year 3 11 google chrome apps & features for getting more done with less effort 4 11 brain training apps to train your mind and improve memory 5 15 productivity chrome extensions to boost productivity in 2020 read next how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut advertising advertising productivity technology advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques tanvir zafar the founder of isu technologies, passionate in writing about productivity, creativity, entrepreneurship, work and technology. read full profile share pin it tweet share email typing is a lot of fun, especially if you’re the type of person who loves to write. whenever an idea comes to your head or you just want to communicate something, the feeling of scribbling things down in a computer is awesome. do you know that being able to type faster makes you more productive? in fact, it’ll save you 21 days every year just by typing faster! many people look up to master typists and wish that to handle a keyboard like they do. the truth is that none of them started that way, and they had to learn. in this piece, you’ll learn how to type faster with some useful tips and techniques: 1. work on your workspace and typing area a lot of people believe that fast and correct typing will start when you can master the keyboard. but the truth is, you will need to begin with getting a workspace that is clean, properly ventilated, and comfortable. also, for optimal typing, you will need to get a table and not out your laptop or computer on your lap. advertising if you will be working for an extended period, make sure that you’re comfortable. 2. fix your posture if you want to type well, the correct posture will be seated, straight backed, and with your feet planted a little apart, flat on the ground. you wrists should also be positioned in such a way that your fingers can cover the keyboard. tilt your head a bit as you can look at the screen properly as well. adjust your office chair so you’ll be able to easily play with the seat and get a proper posture. 3. hold your posture it is also very important that you keep this position as you type. ensure that your posture is good, and this way, you will be able to avoid getting aches on your wrists. these aches have a way of slowing you down and keeping you out of rhythm. keep your back and shoulders from hunching, and while relaxation should be your key goal as you work on, also be sure to stay upright. advertising 4. familiarize yourself with the keyboard the keyboard is your tool here, so you will need to get to know it. fortunately for you, most keyboards that you see will make use of the same layout; the qwerty layout. it is called that because of the letters that make the top left corner. you’ll also find that a lot of keyboards have keys around these main ones that do several tings. here’s a nice video to help you familiarize yourself with the keyboard: so, work on memorizing the positions of the letter keys, as well as some of the most used punctuation marks. you will need to understand where they are without looking at the keyboard. this is the only way you can learn to type fast. 5. close your eyes and say the keys out loud as you press them another great way to get to know the positions of these letters is to look away from them and directly at the screen. then, pronounce the keys as you press them and see if you’re correct. this step will go a long way in helping you to memorize the keys, and it can easily help you 6. start slowly with touch-typing improving your speed as you type is a matter of developing your skill over time. however, the quickest way to master typing will be touch typing. if this is your first time with touch typing, then you might spend a lot of time on this step. however, once you can type without looking at the keys, your speed will increase. advertising now, this typing method might feel a bit alien, but you’ll improve with time. 7. stick with it and don’t look at your hands the whole essence of this step is to keep you from looking at your keyboard as you type, so that your fingers are made to learn how the keys work. again, you might find that your speed reduces when you begin, but just stick to it. touch typing will help you to reach higher speeds and master it. 8. practice, practice, practice mastering the touch typing technique will prove to be a bit finicky, but once your posture is up and you get your fingers where they should be, you can only improve by practicing. spare some time on a daily basis to practice and master both accuracy and speed. with continuous practice, you will also notice that you make fewer errors with time. advertising 9. check out some online games there are also some websites that can help you with your practicing. they score you and record your words per minute, so you can try improving your record and competing with others as well. here’re some of the nice sites: typing club the typing cat typing.com 10. dictation practice if you don’t know what you can type, another alternative to getting good practice is to listen to something and try to type as you hear the words. there is no limit to the kind of things you can type, and you can even make the practice process more fun. so, get an e-book, an online lecture, or listen to a talk show and type. you could watch a tv show as well. 11. monitor your progress ensure that you keep track of the progress you make as you go on. but it is important that you don’t get obsessed with how many words you are able to type in a minute. rather, ensure that you stay comfortable while you type. with time, your words per minute will increase, and you’ll be able to clock up some high numbers. 12. get some formal training if you want there are actually a lot of specially designed courses and programs that will boost your typing ability. if you’re willing to improve your skill, get any of these and see how well they work for you: byte back peter’s online typing course don’t just finish reading this article and expect that you’ll type faster. you do need to work on your skills. it takes time to type fast but, practice makes perfect! more tips about typing faster how to save 21 days per year by typing fast 8 most effective games and apps to learn to type fast featured photo credit: cytonn photography via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 8 most effective games and apps to learn to type fast how to save 21 days per year by typing fast how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques advertising advertising more by this author tanvir zafar the founder of isu technologies, passionate in writing about productivity, creativity, entrepreneurship, work and technology. how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 10 best note taking apps to get organized 20 best places to work for a great career in 2020 15 best entrepreneurs books to start reading now to be successful 15 best organization apps to boost your productivity in 2020 advertising trending in technology 1 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 2 11 meeting scheduler apps to boost your productivity this year 3 11 google chrome apps & features for getting more done with less effort 4 11 brain training apps to train your mind and improve memory 5 15 productivity chrome extensions to boost productivity in 2020 read next how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated how to achieve a realistic work life balance how to stay motivated and reach your big goals in life about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.