start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising technology advertising 5 reasons why 2014 is the year you start using a vpn jordan fried read full profile share pin it tweet share email the year 2014 will be a crucial year for the online privacy debate. edward snowden is still living in exile in russia but he’s not giving up the battle for personal privacy on the world wide web. as government agencies and central authorities continue to spy on citizens around the world, there’s no better time to look into protecting yourself and your browsing data. one of the best ways to reclaim your privacy online is to use a virtual private network (vpn) service. below you’ll find five reasons why 2014 is the year you will want to start using a vpn. 1. protect yourself on public wifi with a vpn one of the major reasons to use a virtual private network is to protect yourself when accessing the internet over unsafe public wifi. just because you’re paying a daily rate to use hotel wifi does not make it safe and secure for accessing private information. you need to be aware of the fact that public wifi is not encrypted and offers users no security. anyone who is tech savvy enough can easily see your internet activity. you don’t even need to be a good hacker to know how to intercept unencrypted wifi signals. the point here is that public wifi is a joke. it should not be trusted, and you need to know this before doing anything over these types of networks. spend a few dollars a month and subscribe to a vpn service, which will encrypt and protect your web traffic while you’re connected to the internet over a public connection. advertising if you’re traveling a lot and constantly logging onto the internet over public wifi in airports or cafes, then a vpn is definitely a good investment for you. 2. stream entertainment anywhere in the world the number-one way to watch movies and tv shows is to stream them from websites like hulu, netflix, bbc iplayer, and a large number of other sites. unfortunately, due to copyright agreements between these streaming companies and content holders, these service aren’t available to the majority of people living outside the us. slowly, these services are expanding but if you find yourself living in or traveling to a country that doesn’t offer these streaming services, you can use a vpn to bypass this block. the way this works is simple. a vpn allows you t o easily change your ip address, preventing anyone from knowing where you really are in the world. you could logon to a vpn while in moscow and switch your ip address to new york, thus making all of your internet traffic think it’s coming from new york. the vpn will allow you to unlock these services in a way that is very quick and easy to setup and use. simply turn on the vpn connection when you’d like to stream content and turn it off when you’d like to resume searching the internet as you normally would. advertising 3. gain unrestricted internet access at work and school if you’re currently a student at a university or an employee at a large company, you may find yourself having to comply with an internet usage policy. you may be prevented from checking facebook, youtube, twitter, and even from accessing your online email account. a vpn connection can easily help you escape these types of restrictive networks and connect to websites that might otherwise be blocked or limited all together. the vpn will make your internet traffic unreadable by the network administrator or the isp. this prevents anyone from collecting information about your browsing activity. now, i’m not encouraging you to start breaking the rules of your university or workplace. use this knowledge and make the best judgment call possible. i’m simply telling you what is possible. another great way to use a vpn is to protect yourself while engaging in p2p file sharing activity. for obvious reasons, the motion picture association of america and similar organizations are constantly trying to prevent file-sharers from infringing on their intellectual property. again, while i cannot encourage you to share pirated copies of major motion pictures, i will say that it’s possible to protect yourself while engaging in any type of file sharing, both legal and illegal, by using a vpn. advertising a vpn connection will most likely slow down your bandwidth slightly, but that’s a small price to pay to product your downloads and uploads from authorities looking at your traffic. i think it’s a no-brainer to pay for some added privacy and protection. 4. bypass censorship in remote countries abroad similar to point number three above about bypassing corporate or university internet policies, a vpn could also be used to liberate yourself from overly controlling or oppressive internet censorship. countries like iran, thailand, russia, china, cuba, syria, united arab emirates, and many others prevent their citizens from freely accessing the world wide web. as we saw during the arab spring uprising in egypt, the internet can be used as an awesome political tool to disperse information and organize a revolution. this is why it’s so important to have unhindered access to the internet. the good news is that a vpn connection can help you bypass internet censorship and enable you to get around restrictive internet policies. a vpn will completely hide your internet activity while allowing you to fake your location, allowing you to have complete internet freedom. 5. protect your right to privacy this one is less obvious but it needs to be said. you have a right to internet privacy; it’s as simple as that. no one can take this right away from you–not your university, your employer, the local law enforcement, or the country in which you reside. it’s time you reclaimed this right and stop allowing governments and law enforcement agencies to spy on you. for $10 to $15 dollars a month, you can gain access to a great vpn service that will allow you to live a more private and secure life, both online and offline. advertising finding a vpn i could write a whole article on this topic alone as there are so many things to consider when choosing a personal vpn service. if you’ll be streaming movies and other video / audio content you’ll want to make sure you pick a vpn service that offers unlimited bandwidth couple with fast server speeds. if you’re simply looking to protect yourself over a public wifi connection at a cafe or airport, you’ll want to pick a vpn that has servers close to you with reasonably fast speeds. you’ll also want a vpn service that doesn’t log your activity. simply do a google search for “personal vpn software,” and read some reviews before signing up for a service. conclusion these are just five of the many reasons why you need a virtual private network service. the internet is still in its infancy and we’re all bearing witness to the rapid development of this incredible, connected world. as technology continues to advance, we’ll start to see privacy and security become major issues. in fact, these issues have already come to the forefront of the world-wide internet debate. the next few years will be critical in mapping out the future of the internet and the regulations surrounding it. while all of this is happening, it’s as good a time as any to protect yourself with a virtual private network. share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated advertising advertising more by this author jordan fried top 10 best blogs around the world that will inspire your life 5 reasons why 2014 is the year you start using a vpn secure your internet privacy with this guide how virtual private networks work how to make a stunning linkedin profile advertising trending in technology 1 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 2 11 meeting scheduler apps to boost your productivity this year 3 11 google chrome apps & features for getting more done with less effort 4 11 brain training apps to train your mind and improve memory 5 15 productivity chrome extensions to boost productivity in 2020 more by this author jordan fried top 10 best blogs around the world that will inspire your life 5 reasons why 2014 is the year you start using a vpn secure your internet privacy with this guide how virtual private networks work how to make a stunning linkedin profile trending in technology 1 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 2 11 meeting scheduler apps to boost your productivity this year 3 11 google chrome apps & features for getting more done with less effort 4 11 brain training apps to train your mind and improve memory 5 15 productivity chrome extensions to boost productivity in 2020 read next how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut advertising advertising productivity technology advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques tanvir zafar the founder of isu technologies, passionate in writing about productivity, creativity, entrepreneurship, work and technology. read full profile share pin it tweet share email typing is a lot of fun, especially if you’re the type of person who loves to write. whenever an idea comes to your head or you just want to communicate something, the feeling of scribbling things down in a computer is awesome. do you know that being able to type faster makes you more productive? in fact, it’ll save you 21 days every year just by typing faster! many people look up to master typists and wish that to handle a keyboard like they do. the truth is that none of them started that way, and they had to learn. in this piece, you’ll learn how to type faster with some useful tips and techniques: 1. work on your workspace and typing area a lot of people believe that fast and correct typing will start when you can master the keyboard. but the truth is, you will need to begin with getting a workspace that is clean, properly ventilated, and comfortable. also, for optimal typing, you will need to get a table and not out your laptop or computer on your lap. advertising if you will be working for an extended period, make sure that you’re comfortable. 2. fix your posture if you want to type well, the correct posture will be seated, straight backed, and with your feet planted a little apart, flat on the ground. you wrists should also be positioned in such a way that your fingers can cover the keyboard. tilt your head a bit as you can look at the screen properly as well. adjust your office chair so you’ll be able to easily play with the seat and get a proper posture. 3. hold your posture it is also very important that you keep this position as you type. ensure that your posture is good, and this way, you will be able to avoid getting aches on your wrists. these aches have a way of slowing you down and keeping you out of rhythm. keep your back and shoulders from hunching, and while relaxation should be your key goal as you work on, also be sure to stay upright. advertising 4. familiarize yourself with the keyboard the keyboard is your tool here, so you will need to get to know it. fortunately for you, most keyboards that you see will make use of the same layout; the qwerty layout. it is called that because of the letters that make the top left corner. you’ll also find that a lot of keyboards have keys around these main ones that do several tings. here’s a nice video to help you familiarize yourself with the keyboard: so, work on memorizing the positions of the letter keys, as well as some of the most used punctuation marks. you will need to understand where they are without looking at the keyboard. this is the only way you can learn to type fast. 5. close your eyes and say the keys out loud as you press them another great way to get to know the positions of these letters is to look away from them and directly at the screen. then, pronounce the keys as you press them and see if you’re correct. this step will go a long way in helping you to memorize the keys, and it can easily help you 6. start slowly with touch-typing improving your speed as you type is a matter of developing your skill over time. however, the quickest way to master typing will be touch typing. if this is your first time with touch typing, then you might spend a lot of time on this step. however, once you can type without looking at the keys, your speed will increase. advertising now, this typing method might feel a bit alien, but you’ll improve with time. 7. stick with it and don’t look at your hands the whole essence of this step is to keep you from looking at your keyboard as you type, so that your fingers are made to learn how the keys work. again, you might find that your speed reduces when you begin, but just stick to it. touch typing will help you to reach higher speeds and master it. 8. practice, practice, practice mastering the touch typing technique will prove to be a bit finicky, but once your posture is up and you get your fingers where they should be, you can only improve by practicing. spare some time on a daily basis to practice and master both accuracy and speed. with continuous practice, you will also notice that you make fewer errors with time. advertising 9. check out some online games there are also some websites that can help you with your practicing. they score you and record your words per minute, so you can try improving your record and competing with others as well. here’re some of the nice sites: typing club the typing cat typing.com 10. dictation practice if you don’t know what you can type, another alternative to getting good practice is to listen to something and try to type as you hear the words. there is no limit to the kind of things you can type, and you can even make the practice process more fun. so, get an e-book, an online lecture, or listen to a talk show and type. you could watch a tv show as well. 11. monitor your progress ensure that you keep track of the progress you make as you go on. but it is important that you don’t get obsessed with how many words you are able to type in a minute. rather, ensure that you stay comfortable while you type. with time, your words per minute will increase, and you’ll be able to clock up some high numbers. 12. get some formal training if you want there are actually a lot of specially designed courses and programs that will boost your typing ability. if you’re willing to improve your skill, get any of these and see how well they work for you: byte back peter’s online typing course don’t just finish reading this article and expect that you’ll type faster. you do need to work on your skills. it takes time to type fast but, practice makes perfect! more tips about typing faster how to save 21 days per year by typing fast 8 most effective games and apps to learn to type fast featured photo credit: cytonn photography via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 8 most effective games and apps to learn to type fast how to save 21 days per year by typing fast how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques advertising advertising more by this author tanvir zafar the founder of isu technologies, passionate in writing about productivity, creativity, entrepreneurship, work and technology. how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 10 best note taking apps to get organized 20 best places to work for a great career in 2020 15 best entrepreneurs books to start reading now to be successful 15 best organization apps to boost your productivity in 2020 advertising trending in technology 1 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 2 11 meeting scheduler apps to boost your productivity this year 3 11 google chrome apps & features for getting more done with less effort 4 11 brain training apps to train your mind and improve memory 5 15 productivity chrome extensions to boost productivity in 2020 read next how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated how to achieve a realistic work life balance how to stay motivated and reach your big goals in life about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.