start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising work smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 5 signs you’re ready for a career change dr. kerry petsinger entrepreneur, mindset & performance coach, & doctor of physical therapy read full profile share pin it tweet share email recently, i read a gallup survey stating that 87% of employees worldwide are not engaged at work.[1] that’s a huge number of people in the world who aren’t engaged at their jobs. what about you? are you engaged at your work? if not, here are some signs you’re ready for a career change. 1. your current career does not allow you to focus on your priorities. what truly matters to you? what do you really want to accomplish in your life? how do you want to spend your time? it’s absolutely crucial to consider what your priorities are and build a life that allows you to focus on what matters most to you. advertising as a doctor of physical therapy, i see people every day who have had their lives change drastically in the blink of an eye. from traumatic brain injuries, to strokes, to motor vehicle accidents… these people’s lives have been forever changed instantly. i’ve had many wonderful patients, men and women, weep as they tell me about how they have saved their big dreams for retirement and now they’ll never get to live those dreams. taking care of these patients on a regular basis has reminded me of the importance of focusing my life on what matters most right now. saving your biggest dreams for retirement is a risky move. if your current career path doesn’t allow you to focus your life on what truly matters to you, it’s time to seriously consider making a career change. 2. you want to make a different impact in the world than your job allows. you are here to make a mark on the world. what will your mark be? thinking about the impact you want to make can help guide your career choice. advertising if there’s a specific difference you want to make with the work you do, consider which career path will enable you to maximize your impact. while you can make a difference in the world in most jobs just by being who you are and shining bright, some career paths will give you an avenue to fight for an important cause, or have a certain influence. 3. every friday, you wildly exclaim, “tgif!” fridays are great, but it’s possible to have a job where almost every day is just as wonderful as friday. it’s truly possible to do work you love so much, that you actually look forward to mondays. while weekends are fun, if you’re the one in the office every single week excitedly proclaiming the arrival of the weekend, you might want to think about building a career you like better than your current one. 4. you’re envious of people in other careers. pay attention to how you feel when other people talk about their jobs. if you are envious of other people’s careers, pinpoint what you’re jealous about. is it their work hours, or their specific work duties? is it the company they work for? is it their lifestyle? if you find yourself thinking, “must be nice…” when people talk about their jobs, it might be time for you to consider switching jobs. advertising 5. you’re feeling restless. perhaps you’ve enjoyed your job for many years, and you appreciate the wonderful career you’ve had, but now you’d love to try something new. pay attention to that restless feeling. is there something tugging at your heart that you’d love to try? life is short, and if you’re feeling stir crazy, you may want to consider exploring other careers. if you’re feeling restless and not sure which career path to take next, start learning about subjects that interest you. dive deeper into subjects you’re excited about. start taking action, because clarity comes from taking action. sign up for a community education class that entices you, or learn a new skill you’ve always wanted to learn. another way to deal with feeling restless is to consider how you could add value in your current career field while changing your job duties. could you specialize in something you like at your current job? could you start your own business? could you coordinate a meaningful project at work? advertising we spend many hours of our lives at work. it’s important that our work is meaningful to us, and allows us to shine. if your current job doesn’t allow you to be the best version of you, it’s time to consider making a switch. more tips about changing career how to make a career change at 40 and get unstuck how to make a career change at 50 for great opportunities how to change careers when it seems too late featured photo credit: arlington research via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ gallup: engage your employees to see high performance and innovation share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to make a career change at 50 for great opportunities how to make a career change at 40 and get unstuck how to change careers when it seems too late advertising advertising more by this author dr. kerry petsinger entrepreneur, mindset & performance coach, & doctor of physical therapy 5 signs you’re ready for a career change feeling stuck in life? how to never get stuck again how to find the purpose of life and start living a fulfilling life don’t like your job? here are some solutions. how people make decisions that are bad for them advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author dr. kerry petsinger entrepreneur, mindset & performance coach, & doctor of physical therapy 5 signs you’re ready for a career change feeling stuck in life? how to never get stuck again how to find the purpose of life and start living a fulfilling life don’t like your job? here are some solutions. how people make decisions that are bad for them trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated advertising advertising work smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) brian lee chief of product management at lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email taking your work to the next level means setting and keeping career goals. a career goal is a targeted objective that explains what you want your ultimate profession to be. defining career goals is a critical step to achieving success. you need to know where you’re going in order to get there. knowing what your career goals are isn’t just important for you–it’s important for potential employers too. the relationship between an employer and an employee works best when your goals for the future and their goals align. saying, “oh, i don’t know. i’ll do anything,” makes you seem indecisive, and opens you up to taking on ill-fitting tasks that won’t lead you to your dream life. career goal templates’ one-size-fits-all approach won’t consider your unique goals and experiences. they won’t help you stand out, and they may not reflect your full potential. in this article, i’ll help you to define your career goals with smart goal framework, and will provide you with a list of examples goals for work and career. table of contents how to define your career goal with smart why you need an individual development plan 40 examples of goals for work & career for changing a job for switching career path for getting a promotion for acing a job interview career goal setting faqs summary more tips about setting work goals how to define your career goal with smart instead of relying on a generalized framework to explain your vision, use a tried-and-true goal-setting model. smart is an acronym for “specific, measurable, action-oriented, realistic with timelines.”[1] the smart framework demystifies goals by breaking them into smaller steps. helpful hints when setting smart career goals: advertising start with short-term goals first. work on your short-term goals, and then progress the long-term interests.[2] short-term goals are those things which take 1-3 years to complete. long-term goals take 3-5 years to do. as you succeed in your short-term goals, that success should feed into accomplishing your long-term goals. be specific, but don’t overdo it. you need to define your career goals, but if you make them too specific, then they become unattainable. instead of saying, “i want to be the next ceo of apple, where i’ll create a billion-dollar product,” try something like, “my goal is to be the ceo of a successful company.” get clear on how you’re going to reach your goals. you should be able to explain the actions you’ll take to advance your career. if you can’t explain the steps, then you need to break your goal down into more manageable chunks. don’t be self-centered. your work should not only help you advance, but it should also support the goals of your employer. if your goals differ too much, then it might be a sign that the job you’ve taken isn’t a good fit. if you want to learn more about setting smart goals, watch the video below to learn how you can set smart career goals. after you’re clear on how to set smart goals, you can use this framework to tackle other aspects of your work. for instance, you might set smart goals to improve your performance review, look for a new job, or shift your focus to a different career. we’ll cover examples of ways to use smart goals to meet short-term career goals in the next section. why you need an individual development plan setting goals is one part of the larger formula for success. you may know what you want to do, but you also have to figure out what skills you have, what you lack, and where your greatest strengths and weaknesses are. one of the best ways to understand your capabilities is by using the science careers individual development plan skills assessment. it’s free, and all you need to do is register an account and take a few assessments. advertising these assessments will help you determine if your career goals are realistic. you’ll come away with a better understanding of your unique talents and skill-sets. you may decide to change some of your career goals or alter your timeline based on what you learn. 40 examples of goals for work & career all this talk of goal-setting and self-assessment may sound great in theory, but perhaps you need some inspiration to figure out what your goals should be. for changing a job attend more networking events and make new contacts. achieve a promotion to __________ position. get a raise. plan and take a vacation this year. agree to take on new responsibilities. develop meaningful relationships with your coworkers and clients. ask for feedback on a regular basis. learn how to say, “no,” when you are asked to take on too much. delegate tasks that you no longer need to be responsible for. strive to be in a leadership role in __ number of years. for switching career path pick up and learn a new skill. find a mentor. become a volunteer in the field that interests you. commit to getting training or going back to school. read the most recent books related to your field. decide whether you are happy with your work-life balance and make changes if necessary. [3] plan what steps you need to take to change careers.[4] compile a list of people who could be character references or submit recommendations. commit to making __ number of new contacts in the field this year. create a financial plan. for getting a promotion reduce business expenses by a certain percentage. stop micromanaging your team members. become a mentor. brainstorm ways that you could improve your productivity and efficiency at work seek a new training opportunity to address a weakness.[5] find a way to organize your work space.[6] seek feedback from a boss or trusted coworker every week/ month/ quarter. become a better communicator. find new ways to be a team player. learn how to reduce work hours without compromising productivity. for acing a job interview identify personal boundaries at work and know what you should do to make your day more productive and manageable. identify steps to create a professional image for yourself. go after the career of your dreams to find work that does not feel like a job. look for a place to pursue your interest and apply your knowledge and skills. find a new way to collaborate with experts in your field. identify opportunities to observe others working in the career you want. become more creative and break out of your comfort zone. ask to be trained more relevant skills for your work. ask for opportunities to explore the field and widen your horizon set your eye on a specific award at work and go for it. career goal setting faqs i’m sure you still have some questions about setting your own career goals, so here i’m listing out the most commonly asked questions about career goals. 1. what if i’m not sure what i want my career to be? if you’re uncertain, be honest about it. let the employer know as much as you know about what you want to do. express your willingness to use your strengths to contribute to the company. when you take this approach, back up your claim with some examples. if you’re not even sure where to begin with your career, check out this guide: how to find your ideal career path without wasting time on jobs not suitable for you advertising 2. is it okay to lie about my career goals? lying to potential employers is bound to end in disaster. in the interview, a lie can make you look foolish because you won’t know how to answer follow up questions. even if you think your career goal may not precisely align with the employer’s expectations for a long-term hire, be open and honest. there’s probably more common ground than they realize, and it’s up to you to bridge any gaps in expectations. being honest and explaining these connections shows your employer that you’ve put a lot of thought into this application. you aren’t just telling them what they want to hear. 3. is it better to have an ambitious goal, or should i play it safe? you should have a goal that challenges you, but smart goals are always reasonable. if you put forth a goal that is way beyond your capabilities, you will seem naive. making your goals too easy shows a lack of motivation. employers want new hires who are able to self-reflect and are willing to take on challenges. 4. can i have several career goals? it’s best to have one clearly-defined career goal and stick with it. (of course, you can still have goals in other areas of your life.) having a single career goal shows that you’re capable of focusing, and it shows that you like to accomplish what you set out to do. advertising on the other hand, you might have multiple related career goals. this could mean that you have short-term goals that dovetail into your ultimate long-term career goal. you might also have several smaller goals that feed into a single purpose. for example, if you want to become a lawyer, you might become a paralegal and attend law school at the same time. if you want to be a school administrator, you might have initial goals of being a classroom teacher and studying education policy. in both cases, these temporary jobs and the extra education help you reach your ultimate goal. summary you’ll have to devote some time to setting career goals, but you’ll be so much more successful with some direction. remember to: set smart goals. smart goals are specific, measurable, action-oriented, and realistic with timelines. when you set goals with these things in mind, you are likely to achieve the outcomes you want. have short-term and long-term goals. short-term career goals can be completed in 1-3 years, while long-term goals will take 3-5 years to finish. your short-term goals should set you up to accomplish your long-term goals. assess your capabilities by coming up with an individual development plan. knowing how to set goals won’t help you if you don’t know yourself. understand what your strengths and weaknesses are by taking some self-assessments. choose goals that are appropriate to your ultimate aims. your career goals should be relevant to one another. if they aren’t, then you may need to narrow your focus. your goals should match the type of job that you want and the quality of life that you want to lead. be clear about your goals with potential employers. always be honest with potential employers about what you want to do with your life. if your goals differ from the company’s objectives, find a way bridge the gap between what you want for yourself and what your employer expects. by doing goal-setting work now, you’ll be able to make conscious choices on your career path. you can always adjust your plan if things change for you, but the key is to give yourself a road map for success. more tips about setting work goals 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 15 personal goals for work to make you stand out from your coworkers how to create an action plan and achieve your personal goals featured photo credit: tyler franta via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ achievit: the history and evolution of smart goals [2] ^ she knows: career planning: smart goals [3] ^ career addict: 13 examples of achievable career goals [4] ^ job interview site.com: career goals: examples of career goals and objectives [5] ^ science: goal-setting strategies for scientific and career success [6] ^ udemy: career goal examples: top 6 achievable career goals share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 15 personal goals for work to help you succeed how to create an action plan and achieve your personal goals how to find your ideal career path without wasting time on jobs not suitable for you advertising advertising more by this author brian lee chief of product management at lifehack how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) how to answer behavioral based interview questions smartly 7 best project management apps to boost productivity 100 incredible life hacks that make life so much easier 10 best new products that people don’t know about advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.