home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) become a top blogger by nouman ali editor’s note: we all make blogging mistakes. even editors of blogs like writetodone occasionally mess up! often this is because we forget to kiss. kiss stands for ‘keep it simple, stupid’. it’s not meant to be derogatory, as the first article in the series explains. instead, it’s meant to be a way to check if you’ve built your foundations on solid ground, before you start getting all fancy 🙂 so here are 5 simple, but crippling, blogging mistakes to avoid… blogging is one of the effective ways of content marketing. poor blogging can never generate great leads and thus your online business will suffer. in fact, your entire content marketing strategy will fail if you make these simple blogging mistakes: 1- inconsistency blogging can give you some tremendous benefits but those who have generated thousands of leads through blogging have worked hard for it. blogging can never give you the desired results if you are not consistent with your posts. regular posts can bring back readers time and time again and will show your professionalism and dedication. regular posts mean a high number of visitors and thus there are more chances of generating high leads. consistency in your blog posts is also imperative for high google ranking. we all know that besides having high-quality content, frequent posts are also essential for getting high traffic. frequent posts do not mean that you need to post every day. you can post once a week, or two to three days a week, depending on your audience. selecting new and unique topics for your blog requires time and effort. if you are unsure about the best topics you can also use tools for generating blog ideas. one of the best is hubspot. hubspot helps thousands of content marketers generate great blog ideas automatically, thus saving hours of research. 2- boring content many times readers start reading a particular blog post but then switch to another because they find the content boring. you need to keep in mind that readers are the main drivers of your blogging career. they have plenty of options on the internet. if one post doesn’t answer their question, they can easily switch to another. thus, you need to give them meaningful content. make sure that the content is actually answering the problem the reader came to solve. remember that a reader will only spend around 30 seconds on your post to see if it is worth reading or not. you need to grab, and keep, their attention immediately. freestyling is not usually the best way to achieve this. instead look for proven formulas used by professional writers and bloggers. these techniques help in keeping the reader engaged from the beginning. one of these techniques is the app (agree, promise, and preview) technique for starting your article. start by agreeing with a problem you know your reader has, such as lack of time to write for instance. then promise a tantalising solution, and finally give them a preview of how you are going to deliver that promise. 3- writing short posts in the past many successful bloggers wrote short posts. they are easier to write but can’t cover everything in detail. today, readers want to read one post that answers their problem completely, rather than searching for other blogs and spending more time online. if we look at today’s top bloggers, we can easily see that they write long content, around 2000 words or more. google wants its readers to get maximum information, so it wants a detailed post with plenty of information. thus, it gives a higher rank to detailed content in comparison to short content. to make your content highly informative, you need to cover every angle of your reader’s problem. in a shorter version of your blog post, you can only state a problem and then jump to the solution directly. you do not even have enough space to give examples and screenshots of what you are talking about. try, instead, to provide a step by step solution to a problem. it’s ideal to use examples in each step and screenshots will make your post even more attractive to read and actionable. 4- not knowing your audience many bloggers are well versed in writing unique and informative posts but they do not know their audience in detail. content written for professionals is entirely different from that written for amateurs. knowing the demographics of your audience is essential. similarly, the age group of your audience plays a key role. you can easily use google analytics to find out this vital information, and a lot more besides. 5- adding irrelevant information keep in mind that your blog should be highly informative. it should be a place where readers can find maximum information in minimum time. many bloggers pad out their site by adding irrelevant posts. remember, if your readers aren’t interested in it, it doesn’t matter how interesting, or important, it is to you. don’t post it. this is one of the mos common blogging mistakes, and one that can loose you a lot of readers. if you are struggling to find relevant topics to write about, you can use different online tools like hubspot, ubersuggest and buzzsumo. avoid those crippling blogging mistakes so, the next time you plan to write an post, make sure that it addresses a problem that your target audience is facing. completely, and effectively. it’s never too late to convert your blog into a conversion machine. whether you are writing your own blog or freelancing for another, make sure you avoid these blogging mistakes. if you write meaningful and comprehensive content by keeping your readers’ needs in the forefront of your mind, you will see a huge improvement in your online business. do you agree with the 5 tips above? do you know another simple. but crippling, blogging mistake that you think should have been included? tweet pin share related posts 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo by kristel staci 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately by mary jaksch how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) by marion selista about the author nouman ali nouman is a digital marketing expert from dynamologic solutions for many years. along with finding & implementing content optimization strategy, he is also fond of writing interesting articles on seo & digital marketing related topics. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here make real money from your blogging – today, not in three year’s time the blogger's guides - complete four pack grab your guides here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera market your writing qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions >