toggle navigation login sign up 5 step challenge - how to begin breaking into startups you can break into tech from any background enroll in course for free the 5 step challenge will not only help you break into startups, but will also connect you to other people like you that are following a similar path after completing these 5 steps you will understand: ✔ how to tell your story from a position of power (trust your struggle) ✔ technical and non-technical roles including team dynamics and compensation ✔ networking tips and advice to get in front of decision makers (cold vs. warm e-mails, social media, etc.) ✔ how to set up informational interviews (coffee meetings) highlights of the 5 step challenge ✔ unlimited support from the breaking into startups challenge group members who'll provide quick answers to your questions, comments, and emails and give you the kind of input that has long been only available only to the few interviewees with 'connections.' ✔ a framework to tell your story in a way that can be used in any scenario; especially when you move to a new city and need to easily explain who you are with confidence to that ceo you recognize ✔ overview of technical and non-technical roles: we give you extensive explanations for the main roles including team dynamics and compensation ✔ the step by step guide to connect with industry insiders. we teach you how to craft a cold email, use twitter and other social media to get in front of decision makers, and start building a network that will propel your way into tech. your instructor breaking into startups the mission of the breaking into startups is to demonstrate that it is possible to break into tech from any background. we are breaking existing stereotypes around hiring people from non-traditional backgrounds through education, mentorship and resources. course curriculum introduction available in days days after you enroll preview getting started (3:20) challenge 1: join the family available in days days after you enroll start join the 5 step challenge private facebook group (1:49) start choose your player format (1:14) start enable notifications - recieve important announcements (1:06) start bonus (0:39) challenge 2: create a 1 minute intro video available in days days after you enroll start introduce yourself (1:37) challenge 3: describe your dream job and how it will help you become who you want to be available in days days after you enroll start roles in tech (1:05) start step 1: learn & evaluate (1:20) start step 2: put it on paper (0:43) start step 3: listen to stories of others just like you (0:40) start step 4: take action and make a statement (0:33) challenge 4: tell your story from a position of power available in days days after you enroll start crafting your story (2:08) start 1. your background (2:43) start 2. your awakening (1:51) start 3. your growing passion (2:50) start 4. why you are here today (1:50) start 5. where you're going (1:45) start tying it all together (3:12) challenge 5: "coffee meetings" (informational interviews) available in days days after you enroll start how to turn a "coffee meeting" into a job (3:56) start getting the email address (5:19) next steps available in days days after you enroll start where to go from here (1:41) frequently asked questions when does the course start and finish? the course starts now and never ends! it is a completely self-paced online course - you decide when you start and when you finish. how long do i have access to the course? how does lifetime access sound? after enrolling, you have unlimited access to this course for as long as you like - across any and all devices you own. off original price! the coupon code you entered is expired or invalid, but the course is still available! why most guides suck... and why this 5 step challenge will get you better results than anything else out there the breaking into startups 5 step challenge takes interview preparation way beyond merely "regurgitating canned responses" to "understanding the concepts". memorizing questions and answers will only take you so far… because interviewers can always put a new spin on traditional questions, and throw you for a loop in the process. that's why we created the breaking into startups 5 step challenge - to address the increasing trend of startups asking questions designed to make you think - and to catch you off-guard: ✔ you need to understand the concepts – not just the answers: startups are now looking for evidence of conceptual understanding rather than your ability to memorize and repeat 'stock' questions and answers. that's why we give you extensive explanations for all the concepts, before we even dive into the questions and answers. ✔ you need to practice and test your understanding: otherwise, how could you really know whether or not you understand the concepts? that's why we give you mock questions and answers that you can use to test your knowledge. it's like practicing in a real interview setting! ✔ you need to customize your "story" for different roles: different roles and backgrounds require different preparation. if you're applying for design roles, you'll say one thing… but it's different for engineering, product management, business development and sales. you need different ways to "tell your story," pitch yourself, and convince interviewers that you're the best possible candidate for the role. and you'll learn how to do exactly that with our resume / cv / cold email templates and tutorials. ✔ you need a different prep plan depending on how much time you have: you might be preparing long in advance… weeks or months before your interviews… or you might only have a few days… or a few hours. each scenario requires very different preparation, which is why we give you a quick start guide explaining exactly what to focus on depending on your background and how much time you have. the breaking into startups guide gets you everything above, and more – put simply, this is one of the highest-return investments you'll ever make in ensuring that you land offers at tech startups get started now! free course coupon discount free enroll in course for free © breaking into startups 2020 terms of use privacy policy powered by