home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre fiction how to write a novel by c.s. lakin maybe you’ve only begun planning out your novel. you have a great concept and a basic plot. or maybe you’ve already completed a rough draft. you’re fairly sure what you’re writing fits the genre you have in mind and you obviously want it to be a bestseller in its genre. or maybe you have no idea what genre you’re writing. does it matter? that’s a good question, and the answer depends on a lot of factors. if you’re writing for yourself, with no plans to publish or land an agent, it probably doesn’t matter. write whatever story you like, cross and combine genres to your heart’s desire. but if you do want to interest an agent and sign with a publisher, sell millions of copies of your novel, genre is an important consideration. markets abound for all kinds of genres and cross-genre novels. and if you go on to publish with a traditional publisher, they’ll be the one to place your book in the genre category of their choosing. still, whether you pitch your novel to an agent or publisher or decide to self-publish, you’ll have the best chance at success if you can perfectly place your novel in a specific genre. this can be a small niche genre that sells well. or a broad category, such as victorian romance. when you write and publish a novel, you are producing a commodity, a product. you are targeting a specific consumer that has certain expectations. your book description is a promise to your reader that your story is going to meet their expectations. the closer you can get to meeting those expectations, the happier your readers are going to be. if you are not honest with your “sales pitch,” readers will feel cheated and disappointed. will they buy your next novel? i think not. this isn’t about making a cover for your horror thriller that looks just like the covers of stephen king’s novels. an appropriate cover is important, but it’s a small part of the equation. a smart writer will study other authors in his genre and tear apart those authors’ best-selling novels—not to plagiarize but to get a feel for the tone, pacing, story structure, scene structure, proportion of dialog to narrative to action, premise, and depth of character development. and there’s a methodical way to do this, so you’re not just guessing. it’s important to nail your genre i often encourage my clients who are struggling with nailing their genre to highlight or underline (in the novels they “deconstruct”) elements they are struggling with, such as the way backstory is infused into present action, the way emotion is revealed by showing rather than telling, how dialog is distilled and compressed. i assumed aspiring writers did this kind of homework, but it appears few actually do. sure, they’ve read some books in their targeted genre, but they haven’t studied hard. for writers who take their careers seriously, it is essential to take a lot of time to break down others’ novels and pick them apart to understand why they work. not plagiarize—analyze. by drawing from a number of different best-selling authors in the genre you want to nail, you will see some similarities and some differences. it’s important to note both, for every author should have her own unique voice and writing style, and showcase original ideas. by taking notes as you go through each novel carefully, you can compare these books and see what they share in common. make your first scene your test laboratory here are five steps you can take to nail your genre by working on an opening scene: 1. make a chart listing ten best-selling novels in the genre you want to write in. using a huge piece of tag board and writing small will allow you to see the big picture once you are done. list the titles down the left side and make a grid: a row for each title, and vertical lines separating all the elements you want to make observations about. 2. across the top of the columns, list the elements you want to compare. how extensive the chart is your call. you may only want to analyze a few things. maybe many. some might be chapter length, number of pov characters (or what pov the novel is written in, such as first person present tense or shifting third person), balance of dialog to narrative, what happens in the opening chapter, how quickly and in what manner conflict is introduced, the sophistication or simplicity of the writing itself, sentence length, type of scene ending. 3. once you’ve filled in your chart, spend some time studying it. see what similarities there are, what differences. see what screams “genre” to you. readers of genres expect a certain type of writing style, pacing, tone, and plot concept. for instance, some murder mysteries always begin with a dead body in the opening scene. if you are targeting those readers, you better have a dead body too. 4. even if you’ve already written some or all of your novel, pretend you haven’t. think about your premise and story concept. come up with a scene to open your novel with that will match the type you read in those ten best sellers. if they jump right into a high-action scene with the protagonist in danger, make sure your scene is similar. if the romance novels you read begin with showing the heroine in trouble and introduce the hero by the end of the first scene, consider doing likewise. 5. now write your scene, and make it nail the genre. go back through when you are done and trim and tweak to match the tone, pacing, sentence length, amount of dialog to narrative, and the way and amount that emotion is shown (body language, facial expressions). just an exercise, not a magic formula this exercise is not a cure-all for a weak plot and concept, but it’s meant to help you get a feel for nailing your genre. yet, all we’re talking about here is the first scene. by taking time to deconstruct a number of other novels all the way from the opening scene to the end, you will start to see the range of variety within your genre. when looking at the entire novel, you would also pay close attention to the premise as well as the character and plot arcs. publishers look for novels to fit certain “slots” they need to fill. i like envisioning genres as slots: narrow, confined, and defined types of stories that meet certain reader expectations. make your novel a bestseller in its genre if you want to be successful at any vocation, you need to do your homework. study hard and apply what you learn. learn from the experts and create your own style. be original, not derivative. and don’t be remiss by assuming that by just reading some novels in a genre that will make you an expert. making your novel a bestseller in its genre takes work, but it can pay off—in both sales and satisfaction. tweet pin15 share55 70 shares related posts word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera about the author c.s. lakin c. s. lakin is a writing coach, copyeditor, award-winning blogger at live write thrive and novelist of thirty fiction and nonfiction books. her writer's toolbox series helps novelists master the craft of fiction writing. want to nail your genre to ensure the best path to success with your novels? get half off lakin's popular targeting genre for big sales online video course by clicking this link (good until the end of 2018). ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >