home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library christmas latest articles travel prevnext 5 storage hacks to keep everything organised this christmas leyla preston fri 30th nov 2018 0shares share tweet pin do you find it hard to stay organised over the christmas period? us too. fortunately, lisa lyons, e-commerce manager of storage solution specialist plastic box shop, has a few handy holiday hacks to help you keep everything in order and make christmas a little bit easier. there are piles of presents to wrap, dozens of decorations to arrange, and enough food to feed the family for weeks. it’s christmas! and, it’s hectic. eventually it will be over, and the time will come to take down your decorations for another year. and while it might be easy to just shove it all into boxes in the attic to be uncovered again in 12 months times, you might be in for a nasty surprise when you come back to discover a mess of tangled lights and a box full of broken ornaments. you can avoid this whole rigmarole altogether by taking the time to pack everything away in an organised and careful manner — it doesn’t have to be a massive hassle! here are five tips you can follow to make the whole process a lot simpler. table of contents be prepared store your ornaments safely organise the rest of your decorations avoid tangled lights organise your gift supplies be prepared when it comes to storing your christmas decorations, being prepared means having everything you need, organised and on hand. you will want plenty of handy storage boxes of varying sizes, labels to keep everything organised, and some padding to protect your delicate ornaments. for maximum safety, i would recommend using bubble wrap. it can be reused each year and is much cheaper than replacing expensive or sentimental ornaments. a good way to do a bit of recycling while also making your life easier is to save your wrapping paper and use it to wrap up any extra glassware and crockery. store your ornaments safely unlike the fun of putting up your christmas tree and decorating your home, taking everything down again and storing it for next year can be dull. but taking the time to store everything away in a methodical manner will save you a lot of hassle next year when you have to do it all over again. there is no worse feeling than getting half the tree decorated before realising that some of the ornaments have broken, while others have just disappeared. this problem can be avoided altogether by taking the time to carefully wrap and pack your ornaments individually before storing them. get yourself an ornament box that has adjustable rows to accommodate the varying sizes of ornaments and wrap each of them up in bubble wrap or tissue as you see fit. organise the rest of your decorations if you haven’t kept the boxes that your ornaments came in — or if you just prefer organising things your own way — you’re going to need a storage solution that makes the most of the space you have. whether you are shoving everything out of the way at the back of a cupboard or storing things up in the attic, stackable boxes will make your life a lot easier. the great thing about plastic box storage is that they come in all different shapes and sizes, so you’ll be able to fit in just about anything. if you’ve got lots of small items such as snow globes, pine cones, and other general decoration, a plastic box container with built-in drawers would be the ideal solution. avoid tangled lights whether hanging in windows, wrapped around the bannister, or dangling from the ceiling, having loads of fairy lights around the house is a fantastic way to get in the festive spirit. but when it comes to taking everything down and storing it away, lights can be the most challenging. not only do you need to avoid the hassle of getting your wires tangled, you’ve also got to be careful not to break any of the thousands of tiny fragile bulbs. a great hack to avoid this problem, with the added benefit of reusing some of your christmas waste, is get some scraps of cardboard and turn them into a makeshift light-organiser. you will need one piece of cardboard for each set of lights. cut two slits, one in each side of the cardboard, to hold either end of the cord. wrap the rest around the body of the cardboard and you’ve got a neat little package that can be easily stacked on top of one another in one of your storage boxes. organise your gift supplies storing your wrapping paper, ribbons, bows, and other festive present decorations can be tricky. if not done properly, paper will crease, tear, and unravel, while your ribbon gets tangled and your cupboard becomes littered with glitter. to avoid this problem altogether, we recommend getting a gift supply storage box or bag. how big you need your box to be will depend on how large your gift supply collection is, but having everything easily accessible makes wrapping presents all year round a breeze. packing everything up after christmas doesn’t have to be a chore. follow our advice and take the time to do things properly, and you’ll save yourself a headache for many years to come. leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:storage about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok