english 日本語 deutsch english español português français contact sales log in get hubspot free home software software free hubspot crm all your contacts and companies, 100% free. marketing hub all-in-one marketing software, starting at $0/month. sales hub all-in-one sales software, starting at $0/month. service hub all-in-one customer service software, starting at $0/month. app marketplace find hubspot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business. pricing resources resources blog read marketing, sales, agency, and customer success blog content. customer stories hear from the businesses that use hubspot to grow better every day. developers create apps and custom integrations for businesses using hubspot. ebooks, guides & more get access to hubspot’s most popular marketing resources. onboarding & services find training and consulting services to help you thrive with hubspot. research & reports get up-to-date research and data on hot business trends. free courses & certifications take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts. what is inbound? get a primer on how inbound helps your business grow better. customer support get help if you have questions about using hubspot software. partners partners hire a partner find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow. partner with us explore our sales, agency, and app partnership programs. about about company about us contact us management team board of directors careers news hubspot news press resources speakers investors investor relations get hubspot free log in marketing sales service website subscribe subscribe to our blog stay up to date with the latest marketing, sales, and service tips and news. subscribe via email subscribe on slack subscribe via email marketing sales service website email address we're committed to your privacy. hubspot uses the information you provide to us to contact you about our relevant content, products, and services. you may unsubscribe from these communications at any time. for more information, check out our privacy policy. back to other options thank you! you have been subscribed. get hubspot free marketing | 11 min read 5 steps to create an outstanding marketing plan [free templates] written by rebecca white @rebecca_white94 do you take a good, hard look at your team's marketing strategy every year? you should. an annual marketing plan helps you set your marketing on the right course to make your company's business goals a reality. think of it as a high-level plan that guides the direction of your team's campaigns, goals, and growth. without one, things can get messy -- and it's nearly impossible to put a number on the budget you'll need to secure for the projects, hiring, and outsourcing you'll encounter over the course of a year if you don't have a plan. keep in mind there are variations to the marketing plan you need, depending on your industry and the goals of your marketing team. to make your plan's creation easier, we've put together a list of what to include in your plan and a few different planning templates where you can easily fill in the blanks. to start, let's dive into how to create a marketing plan and then take a look at what a high-level marketing plan has inside. how to create a marketing plan conduct a situation analysis. define your target audience. write smart goals. analyze your tactics. set your budget. featured resource free marketing plan template fill out this form to access a free marketing plan template. 1. conduct a situation analysis. before you can get started with your marketing plan, you have to know your current situation. what are your strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats? conduct a basic swot analysis is the first step to creating a marketing plan. additionally, you should also have an understanding of the current market. how do you compare to your competitors? doing a competitor analysis should help you with this step. think about how other products are better than yours. plus, consider the gaps in a competitor's approach. what are they missing? what can you offer that'll give you a competitive advantage? think about what sets you apart. answering questions like this should help you figure out what your customer wants, which brings us to step number two. 2. define your target audience. once you have a better understanding of the market and your company's situation, make sure you know who your target audience is. if your company already has buyer persona's, this step might just mean you have to refine your current personas. if you don't have a buyer persona, you should create one. to do this, you might have to conduct market research. your buyer persona should include demographic information such as age, gender, and income. however, it will also include psychographic information such as pain points and goals. what drives your audience? what problems do they have that your product or service can fix? once you have this information written out, it'll help you define what your goals are, which brings us to step number three. 3. write smart goals. my mother always used to tell me, "you can't go somewhere unless you have a road map." now, for me, someone who's geographically challenged, that was literal advice. however, it can also be applied metaphorically to marketing. you can't improve your roi unless you know what your goals are. after you've figured out your current situation and know your audience, you can begin to define your smart goals. smart goals are specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and time-bound. this means that all your goals should be specific and include a time frame for which you want to complete it. for example, your goal could be to increase your instagram followers by 15% in three months. depending on your overall marketing goals, this should be relevant and attainable. additionally, this goal is specific, measurable, and time-bound. before you start any tactic, you should write out your goals. then, you can begin to analyze which tactics will help you achieve that goal. that brings us to step number four. 4. analyze your tactics. at this point, you've written down your goals based on your target audience and current situation. now, you have to figure out what tactics will help you achieve your goals. plus, what are the right channels and action items to focus on. for example, if your goal is to increase your instagram followers by 15% in three months, your tactics might include hosting a giveaway, responding to every comment, and posting three times on instagram per week. once you know your goals, brainstorming several tactics to achieve those goals should be easy. however, while you're writing your tactics, you have to keep your budget in mind, which brings us to step number five. 5. set your budget. before you can begin implementing any of your ideas that you've come up with in the steps above, you have to know your budget. for example, your tactics might include social media advertising. however, if you don't have the budget for that, then you might not be able to achieve your goals. while you're writing out your tactics, be sure to note an estimated budget. you can include the time it'll take to complete each tactic in addition to the assets you might need to purchase, such as ad space. now that you know how to create your marketing plan, let's dive into the elements that a high-level marketing plan should include. marketing plan elements marketing plans can get quite granular to reflect the industry you're in, whether you're selling to consumers (b2c) or other businesses (b2b), and how big your digital presence is. nonetheless, here are six elements every effective marketing plan includes: 1. business summary in a marketing plan, your business summary is exactly what it sounds like: a summary of the organization. this includes the company name, where it's headquartered, and its mission statement -- all of which should be consistent with the business as a whole. your marketing plan's business summary also includes a swot analysis, which stands for the business's strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. be patient with your business's swot analysis; you'll write most of it based on how you fill out the next few marketing plan elements below. 2. business initiatives the business initiatives element of a marketing plan helps you segment the various goals of your department. be careful not to include big-picture company initiatives, which you'd normally find in a business plan. this section of your marketing plan should outline the projects that are specific to marketing. you'll also describe the goals of those projects and how those goals will be measured. 3. target market here's where you'll conduct some basic market research. if your company has already done a thorough market research study, this section of your marketing plan might be easier to put together. ultimately, this element of your marketing plan will help you describe the industry you're selling to, an analysis of your competitors, and your buyer persona. a buyer persona is a semi-fictional description of your ideal customer, focusing on traits like age, location, job title, and personal challenges. 4. market strategy your market strategy uses the information included in your target market section to describe how your company should approach the market. what will your business offer your buyer personas that your competitors aren't already offering them? in a full-length marketing plan, this section can contain the "seven ps of marketing." these ps are product, price, place, promotion, people, process, and physical evidence. (you'll learn more about these seven sub-components inside our free marketing plan template, which you can download below.) 5. budget don't mistake the budget element of your marketing plan with your product's price or other company financials. your budget describes how much money the business has allotted the marketing team to pursue the initiatives and goals outlined in the elements above. depending on how many individual expenses you have, you should consider itemizing this budget by what specifically you'll spend your budget on. example marketing expenses include a marketing agency, marketing software, paid promotions, and events (those you'll host and/or attend). 6. marketing channels lastly, your marketing plan will include a list of your marketing channels. while your company might promote the product itself using certain ad space, your marketing channels are where you'll publish the content that educates your buyers, generates leads, and spreads awareness of your brand. if you publish (or intend to publish) on social media, this is the place to talk about it. use the marketing channels section of your marketing plan to lay out which social networks you want to launch a business page on, what you'll use this social network for, and how you'll measure your success on this network. part of this section's purpose is to prove to your superiors, both inside an outside marketing, that these channels will serve to grow the business. businesses with extensive social media presences might even consider elaborating on their social strategy in a separate social media plan template -- which you can download below. free marketing plan template [word] now that you know what to include in your marketing plan, it's time to grab your marketing plan template and see how best to organize the six elements explained above. the following marketing plan template opens directly in microsoft word, so you can edit each section as you see fit: download your marketing plan template here. in this marketing plan template, you'll get to fill in the following contents to suit your company: business summary company name marketing leadership team headquarters, office locations mission statement swot analysis business initiatives overarching company initiatives marketing initiatives, goals, metrics target market industry name buyer persona(s) competitive analysis market strategy product price promotion people process physical evidence budget marketing channels social media marketing plan templates as marketing departments grow, so will their presence on social media. and as as their social media presence grows, so will their need to measure, plan, and re-plan what types of content they want to publish across each network. if you're looking for a way to deepen your social media marketing strategy -- even further than the marketing plan template above -- the following collection of social media marketing plan templates is perfect for you: download 10 social media reporting templates here. in the above collection of marketing plan templates, you'll get to fill in the following contents (and more) to suit your company: annual social media budget tracking weekly social media themes required social media image dimension key pie chart on social media traffic sorted by platform social media post calendar and publish time below, let's review the 10 social media reporting templates, and what you'll find in each one. 1. social media questions this template lists out questions to help you decide which social media management platform you should use. once you know what social media tactics you're going to implement in your marketing plan, it's time to figure out what channels are right for you. this template will help you do that. 2. hashtag holidays if you're going to lean in to social media in your marketing plan, you can use hashtag holidays to generate ideas. these holidays are a great way to fill out your social media publishing schedule. with this template, you'll get a list of all the hashtag holidays for the year. 3. facebook live schedule if facebook live is one of the marketing tactics in your plan, this template will help you design an editorial calendar. with this template, you can organize what facebook live's you want to do and when. 4. instagram post log are you going to begin using instagram regularly? do you want to increase your following? with this template, you can organize your instagram posts, so everyone on your team knows what posts are going live and when. additionally, you can organize your assets and campaigns on this doc. 5. paid social media template with this template, you can organize your annual and monthly budget for your paid social media calendar. 6. social media audit conducting a social media audit? you can use this template to help you gather the right analytics. 7. social media editorial calendar with this template, you can organize your social media editorial calendar. for example, you can include social media posts for each platform, so your team knows what's going live on any given day. 8. social media image sizes with this template, your team can have the latest social media image sizes handy. this template includes image sizes for all major social media platforms, including facebook, instagram, and twitter. 9. social media marketing proposal with this template, you can create an entire social media marketing proposal. this will outline the social media goals, scope of the work, and the tactics that you plan to implement. 10. social media reporting template with this template, you'll gain access to a slidedeck that includes templates for social media reporting. if you plan to implement social media in your marketing plan, these reporting templates can help you track your progress. simple marketing plan template of course, this type of planning takes a lot of time and effort. so if you're strapped for time before the holidays, give our new marketing plan generator a try. this tool simplifies yearly planning and lays your strategies, initiatives, and goals out in a simple template so you can identify what's most important for the coming year. try our free marketing plan generator here. once you've filled in your information, you'll come away with a plan that helps you: outline your annual marketing strategy identify your most important annual initiatives nix the projects that won't help you hit your 2017 goals track the right metrics throughout the year align your team through a common mission pro tip: the best way to set up your marketing plan for the year is to start with quick wins first, that way you can ramp up fast and set yourself (and your team) up to hit more challenging goals and take on more sophisticated projects by q4. so, what do you say? are you ready to give it a spin? editor's note: this post was originally published in december 2016 and has been updated for comprehensiveness. originally published mar 18, 2020 5:30:00 pm, updated march 19 2020 topics: marketing strategy don't forget to share this post! related articles how to write an incredible startup marketing budget for 2020 marketing | 5 min read 6 brands that used social media to boost their subscriber list marketing | 6 min read the new rules of marketing we believe that marketing has changed. marketing has changed because the internet has transformed business. both people and businesses (the distinction for marketing purposes is blurring over time) have changed the way they shop for and p... marketing | 3 min read download for later increase your traffic ad software blog software seo software social media software content management system connect with leads find new prospects email tracking sales email templates click to call your leads email marketing close and manage leads document tracking tool meeting schedule tool sales automation tool lead management tool pipeline management tool support and tools hubspot partners join a local user group piesync integrations free tools & generators get a free website report invoice template generator email signature generator marketing plan template generator blog ideas generator make my persona business templates hubspot templates contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium english deutsch 日本語 español português français copyright © 2020 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy