content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search 5 things social media managers must do now in the age of coronavirus authors: lauren teague follow @@laurentee lauren, once a single-digit handicap golfer, is a digital strategist with extensive social experience. she has worked with a range of media startups, established non-profits, professional sports leagues (including seven seasons with the pga tour), teams, athletes, and major brands. an experienced industry and recreation event planner, lauren also leads workshops and speaks nationwide for associations, conferences and corporate groups. lauren is a mom of three #tinyteagues and the emoji queen. if you need recommendations for the best emoji to use, she knows it. view all posts posted under: social media marketing any social media manager facing the weeks ahead in the new reality of covid-19 must be realistic about the behavior and tendencies of social media users and the implications for marketing. in the us, many are entering the first week of working from home. globally we are moving quickly to social distance and face lockdowns, forcing individuals into new habits and patterns. uncertainty is the underlying theme. i’m not saying this to scare anyone but to begin to understand what it means for using social media effectively. putting myself in your shoes, i want to capture the immediate first steps i would take and how to explain that to my marketing team and leadership. pause scheduled posts first things first, cancel all scheduled social media posts. take a hard look at the social editorial calendar and each post. now is not a time to be pumping tons of messages about your upcoming webinar, your album release or a recent blog post — especially if you’re not attuned to the conversation at large. news is changing rapidly. hour by hour, a story can change. your scheduled posts that are previously determined might just fall at the wrong time. we can’t predict the news cycle. we’re all working from home now (myself included). another reason to pause previously scheduled posts is that typical work hours will be adjusted. with people working from home, the 9-to-5 workday will shift. when working from home, schedules are more flexible and apt to change. you can be online at any time to answer emails or crank out a piece of work. however, many people working from home also have kids and family members at home to care for and households to manage during traditional working hours. i’m no exception, with three young children staying home from school and my husband reporting to his office. i’m prioritizing time first thing in the morning, from 5-7 am, and after my kids go to bed, 8-10 pm as primary hours that i can be online and focused on client needs. attention during my daytime hours will be split until i can arrange for childcare help. i won’t see a lot of social content or participate in the conversations that are happening “during work hours,” and i know i’m not alone. post in real-time pausing scheduled posts doesn’t mean throwing them aside. social media managers must get into the native channels and scope out conversation, trending topics and what your audiences are doing. rely on the social listening tools and skills you’ve developed and use the insights to inform content. then post natively once you have a chance to tailor a message to fit that moment in time. if you’re used to setting a schedule of content from 9-to-5, think about people being online at different times throughout the day. test posting at various times during the day and give the algorithms and schedule predictors time to catch up to this new reality. in the short term, the ai won’t be able to predict the best time to publish. giving yourself time to listen before publishing allows you to make your content more relevant and post at a time when it’s most likely to be seen. prioritize conversation over clicks social media starts with conversations, especially in these uncertain times. retrain our expectations and how social media outcomes are valued to move away from click-driven results. being part of a conversation, in a facebook group, on twitter, or even tiktok needs to be prioritized. content created and shared should result in conversation and amplification, not through conversions. as we go through a stage of uncertainty while coronavirus spreads, business will slow. budgets are tightening. consumers and businesses are starting to think harder about how they spend money. i’ve yet to see the client that can’t afford to stop tweeting or posting to facebook umpteen times per day because of the resulting transactions. use your owned channels, like email, to personalize offers and drive conversion. lean into what social media does exceptionally well, which is driving conversations, building community, supporting each other, storytelling, and sharing entertainment. leverage your community while social distancing, most of us will have more time on our hands. create an alternative to netflix binging and offer more educational content that supports curiosity and personal development. when conferences scheduled for march, april, and may started shuttering (postponing), my inquiries for joining virtual events and webinars spiked. follow this trend to put together collaborative content: research your employees, influencers, advocates, and biggest fans. get in touch and ask them to create with you (not for you). use groups, chats, webinars, live video, social stories, and reddit boards to spotlight these people, their stories, and their creativity in a way that is compelling for your audience. create appointment viewing habits take an in-depth look at your editorial content production and posting schedule. at convince & convert, we teach clients how to use a content show strategy, a la tv networks. with a show-driven editorial approach, you can start creating appointment-driven demand for your “must-see” content shows. you know, the things that we’re used to tuning into at a specific day and time, like grey’s anatomy and live sports. by publishing an episode (new content) on the same day of the week in the same format every time, you will train your audience to show up and tune in. this could be a twitter chat, live video, pre-produced video, a podcast episode, ama thread – however you deliver relevant, meaningful content at a specific time and place, packaged in a way that your audience wants to receive it. ann handley does this with total annarchy, her fortnightly email newsletter that hits inboxes every other sunday. it may take a day or two for me to open and read it, but i know when it’s coming and where to look for it. episodic content creates a de-facto appointment in your audience’s mind to spend time with and enjoy that content. while this isn’t the only guide to using social media in the age of coronavirus, it’s a head start into the new reality of work. social media managers have to pivot in real-time to stay relevant and avoid missteps. keep messages on point and based on education, inspiration, or entertainment. act now to set up the weeks and months ahead. while you're here get access to our free social media policy template now (word and pdf versions) article continues while you're here other top articles content marketing 4 higher education content marketing examples that any school can implement zontee hou social media marketing, social media research the 4 best practices of healthcare social media marketing for 2020 lauren teague content marketing, greatest hits how to build a content calendar (plus a free template) anna hrach and jamie griffiths article continues who have we helped? who have we helped? we work to double your digital and we've done that for some of the best companies in the world. find out how we have helped organizations from higher education to entertainment, non-profit and fortune 1000 brands. find out more what great brands do that good brands don't in content marketing okay content is easy. killer content is hard. this nifty ebook shows you the difference, based on our real-world work with dozens of brands. a must-read! how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept