home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base promotion use social media by victor blasco using social media today has become the go-to method for writers and bloggers to get in touch with their audience. given that 3.196 billion people in the world have active social media accounts, it’s easy to see why. if you want to double your fan base, getting on facebook, twitter, youtube and the like is essential. that said, just being there isn’t enough, is it? creating a profile and sharing content doesn’t guarantee your target audience will notice you (or care about you). social media is all about creating a community by engaging with them, and few things accomplish this better than social videos. it’s not a personal opinion, mind you. reports say that videos create 1200% more shares than those from images and texts combined. that’s because people are naturally drawn to visual content that gives them information in funny and concise ways. oh, and because we’re rapidly becoming a video-first society (if we aren’t one, already).creating social videos is an excellent way to double your fan base and keep them interested. the thing is though, that oh so many people out there are already doing the same. backed up by high-quality video production companies well-versed in making flawless content. so the question becomes, how can you compete? well, here are 5 easy ways we often share with writers and bloggers to help them get into the spotlight! 1 – get your topic right sharing videos on your social profiles is important, but don’t make the mistake of choosing quantity over quality. when talking about videos, quality can mean a lot of things but here i’m using it in the sense of ‘relevance’. people’s attention is fleeting, so you have to create something that sparks their curiosity while also addressing something valuable for them. knowing your audience is key in this regard. creating videos for a doggy daycare won’t be the same as creating videos for an upcoming novel presentation or seminar. the topics are obviously different and they will define the tone, the filming, and the goals for each of those videos. basically, what i’m saying here is that you have to sit in your work table, clearly determine who your target audience is, and talk specifically for them in their own language. 2 – make them social friendly topic and tone aren’t the only things you have to keep in mind to make your social video shine. there are also technical aspects that are as important. i’m talking about your video’s structure and length. we’re now living hurried lives in which everything has to be immediate. we don’t have a lot of spare time for many things, and neither does your audience. that’s why you have to keep all your social videos to a proper length. what’s proper, you ask? you’ll do well following these tips: instagram and twitter: these platforms favor shorter videos (under 30 seconds). here, images and gifs dictate the pace at which the audience browse content, so you should use shorter videos (small company videos or vignettes, a video presentation that shows your most outstanding benefits) youtube and facebook: you can bet on longer videos here, especially on youtube. audiences in these networks are accustomed to longer content, so they are the optimal places to upload your how-to videos, seminars, and whiteboard animations. of course, being concise and as brief as possible remains paramount. as a rule of thumb, always go for shorter social videos. this will make test your creativity, as certain types of videos are better suited for reduced duration. that doesn’t mean you can’t fit some nice ideas in a smaller video, like the now-famous recipes from tasty that show you how to make a meal in under a minute. 3 – go native i sincerely lost track of how many brands i’ve found during the years that only upload their videos to youtube and post the links everywhere else. don’t be one of them! uploading just to google’s platform only makes sense if you are a youtuber. any other brand should use the native capabilities of each social network they use. it might seem like a waste of time but it’s far from it. social networks (with facebook as the most notorious case) provide a series of benefits for their native videos. the 2 most noticeable are the better rankings provided by their algorithms, and the creation of a video library where people can always look up your content. if you really can’t upload to every platform you use, then sure, use youtube first. especially since it’s the second largest search engine in the world and ranks amazingly in google search results. but if you ask me, you should definitely take the time to also upload your videos natively in all your social profiles. you’ll have a better reach to your audience as you’ll get in touch with them through their preferred platform. 4 – optimize captions, thumbnails and copy though it’s only natural to worry about shooting and editing your videos, there’s plenty of other details surrounding video creation and publishing that are worth thinking about too. these are the top 3: captions and text overlays: underline the most important part of your video message with some on-screen text. if the 85% of facebook users that watch video on mute are any indication, then captions and overlays become incredibly important in explaining the images for people watching without sound. thumbnail or first frame: you know how it goes – you keep scrolling or swiping through social content and if something doesn’t grab you by the neck right off the bat, you’ll quickly dismiss it. that’s why thumbnails and/or the first frames of your videos are essential. they need to be eye-catching, be it for being colorful, weird or funny. of course, they also need to be relevant and to the point. post’s copy: the text that goes along the video when you post it should also provide details about the content. the title has to be informative, the descriptions should include a couple of keywords, the hashtags should be relevant. all that copy should give your audience a better understanding of your video, and pulling double duty by helping your ranking efforts (a little thing called seo). 5 – always use call to actions you’re not sharing social videos just for the sake of it. there’s a purpose for them within your marketing strategy. it doesn’t matter whether you want more followers, more shares, more visibility, etc. you should have a goal for all your videos, something you want people to do after they’ve finished watching (and if you don’t, please think of one before creating your video!). you can make those actions far more likely to occur with effective call to actions (ctas). you can always ask for people to subscribe to your channel, redirect people to your site, or ask them to fill out a form for the latest news. after all, that’s why you’re making the video in the first place! you have to pay attention to where you place those ctas, though. you can’t start your videos with asking for your audience to do something! that’s why you’ll see that most videos place their ctas at the end of the videos. you know, after people have decided whether what you offer is worth checking out or not. take a look at the way we do it for mcmahon now in this piece what should you do next? take these tips and make them a part of your content creation process! as with any form of marketing, social video marketing needs planning. and if you ultimately want the most coveted thing in the social media world (aka engagement), you should keep all of these tips in mind. i won’t say it will be easy to double your fan base. with billions of people using social media, you obviously know that the competition for that engagement will be fierce. which is why you need to bring your a game! what does that mean? knowing your audience, shooting high quality videos with them in mind, and adapting all your content to the peculiarities of each social platform. now, go get it. you have some serious work to do! tweet pin share related posts qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? by laura tong seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) by kylie ora lobell about the author victor blasco víctor blasco is the founder and ceo of the explainer video company yum yum videos. he is also an audiovisual designer and video marketing expert. aside from running the business, he loves studying chinese philosophy and is a real geek for science fiction films and comics! contact victor on linkedin or twitter ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >