home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write copy promotion by nera cruz great copywriters aren’t born. they may have certain traits in common, but these were learned, not inherited. because, there are a number of commonalities that go into making great copy. and if you learn these traits, you too could become a great copywriter. great minds think alike brian feldman of feldman creative spoke with 27 of the best copywriters around to get their take on what makes for great copywriting. what he found was that though they have their own styles that have led to their success in the field, they pretty much agree on some writing basics: it takes time and hard work. this was from doug kessler, whom feldman considers as the best copywriter he knows. hard work entails fully understanding your subject and your audience. and those entail listening, asking questions, and doing ample research. putting the work in to accomplish those allows you to have a solid foundation to create compelling copy that is able to achieve your goals–whatever they may be. as kessler puts it: “the final ‘wordsmithing’ is just the veneer on top of a solid table made with hardwood and nails and saws.” here are 5 traits great copywriters have in common: 1. they understand who their audience are this is a crucial starting point, because it matters not if you have unmistakable panache when it comes to word weaving or if you’re extremely knowledgeable in the product / idea you’re trying to sell. if you don’t understand your audience, you won’t be able to establish that vital connection with your readers. as renowned copywriter david ogilvy puts it, “if you’re trying to persuade people to do something, or buy something, it seems to me you should use their language, the language they use every day, the language in which they think.” 2. they tug at emotions elasticity svp jason falls put it succinctly, but extremely spot on, when they told feldman: “you can’t have great copywriting without an emotional trigger. something has to move your audience. maybe it’s to act. maybe it’s to laugh. maybe it’s to cry. but copy without an emotional trigger doesn’t.” part of this goes back to understanding your audience – their pain points, and what makes them tick. take this copy, for example: it understands that the target audience are those that work hard and are frequently tired from the daily grind. merely saying that a particular hotel has the most comfortable beds won’t be enough to convince people to book a stay. instead, it stresses the importance of a relaxing weekend, and how it leads to facing the dreaded monday in a much better state. 3. they write with humanity when you’re tasked to write seemingly endless amounts of copy for various clients with different objectives, it’s easy to turn into a corporate bot. when you forget to write with passion, you inevitably begin to write without soul – distancing yourself from the audience, and defeating the entire purpose of the copy. boagworld cites a great example of a copy that lacks any hint of humanity: “as well as ensuring students make the most of their potential through their academic studies, university of essex also provides an environment which caters for all of the needs of its students through providing a range of accommodation, catering facilities, an active students’ union, sport, and the arts.” at no point does it speak with the readers, talking about students, and referring to themselves in the third person. there’s nothing in there that fosters any kind of connection. compare that with boagworld’s simple rewrite. “student life is about more than studying. we support you with everything you’ll be looking for: from accommodation and catering through to an active students’ union, great sports facilities and an engaging arts programme.” with just a few adjustments, it already sounds more like how two people would talk, as opposed to just having a list of what the university has. 4. they keep up with the times copywriters are tasked to touch on a breadth of topics, designed to speak to an equally diverse audience. the ability to do so comes partly from research, but more importantly, great copywriters must have an innate thirst for new information, trends, ideas—basically the nuances of how the market is evolving. some of the ways to nurture this trait is by browsing online, reading about the things people are talking about, and even more reading. this allows you to adjust your tone depending on who you’re speaking to, and avoid making outdated references. people slide into dms; nobody “pokes” anyone anymore. 5. empathy this was the common thread among the 27 copywriters feldman reached out to.simply put the only way you can accomplish the four items above is by being able to empathize with your intended audience. as rainmaker digital ceo brian clark puts it: “great copy doesn’t speak to people, it enters the conversation already playing in their heads. unless you can put yourself in their shoes, see their perspective, and walk their path, your copy will never qualify as great.” it’s not possible to tug at the right emotional triggers if you don’t empathize with your audience. you can’t speak with humanity to them if you don’t fully put yourself in their shoes, feel their pains, and understand their wants. in short, great copy almost always begins and ends with empathy. the traits of great copywriters which of the five traits above do you feel you already have? which of them do you feel you need work on? there are other traits that make great copywriters possess, but if you solidify those listed above, you’re already setting yourself up for becoming a great copywriter. tweet pin share related posts how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? by laura tong about the author nera cruz my author bio: nera cruz is a technical writer and a web merchandiser for different online marketplaces around the globe since 2011. nera gained tons of experience working with several e-commerce platforms. she spends her free time selling her fashion products and gadgets on facebook (nera shoppe). you can also follow her on twitter @nera_joy ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >