universities schools nurseries courses jobs events login search edarabia universities schools nurseries training centers special educational needs courses news events jobs tutors guide online universities after school activities art galleries education suppliers language institutes government agencies music & performing arts recruitment agencies sports & fitness clubs abroad study popular searches: schools | universities | courses | jobs universities uae united kingdom united states australia canada qatar saudi arabia online universities mba rankings more countries schools uae united kingdom egypt qatar saudi arabia hong kong singapore malaysia special education schools more countries nurseries uae saudi arabia qatar bahrain egypt hong kong jordan kuwait oman singapore turkey directory after school activities educational suppliers language schools music & performing arts training centers education news recruitment agencies student scholarships courses jobs events edtalk tutors login/register home guide 50 must read k-12 edtech blogs 50 must read k-12 edtech blogs 204 shares for teachers, it may be hard to stay updated with changing technology in the classroom. at the same time, it’s also important to keep up with new updates in education technology. teachers should always be knowledgeable on the latest edtech blogs, which provide teachers great insights on current tools and best practices. there are all kinds of edtech blogs. if you don’t know where to begin, you can browse some blogs on math, reading, science, and other disciplines! some blogs also tackle coding perfect for students from kindergarten to high school. here’s a list of the best edtech blogs for k-12 teachers: see also: 50 must watch ted talks for teachers 1. edsurge twitter: @edsurge edsurge is an independent education technology information resource and community. teachers can find k12 and highered edtech news, research, jobs, products, and events. 2. i’m a girl who codes twitter: @girlswhocode it’s a non-profit blog that works to inspire, educate, and equip girls with the computing skills to pursue 21st century opportunities. 3. edx blog twitter: @edxonline get the latest news, articles and information about moocs on edx. learn about exciting new online courses from the top universities worldwide. 4. cool cat teacher twitter: @coolcatteacher the cool cat teacher blog has lots of teaching tips, tricks, and advice to engage your students and help them learn. take your teaching to the next level! 5. web 2.0 classroom twitter: @web20classroom this blog is renowned for his insightful tweets and retweets, steve anderson blogs about powerful ways to use technology in the classroom. most recently, he posted about the power of ted talks and how to teach kids to evaluate news sources. 6. free e-learning resources twitter: @elearnindustry find over 1000 free elearning resource for both new elearning professionals and the experienced ones. from 72 free elearning storyboard templates, and 51 free elearning ebooks to 259 free educational technology tools – this blog has it all. 7. iste edtekhub twitter: @isteconnects a recognized leader in educational technology, iste analyzes current trends in areas such as coding and virtual reality. updated daily, the blog will keep you up-to-date on the changing world of edtech. 8. free technology for teachers twitter: @rmbyrne richard byrne provides an array of resources, such as free apps and other tools, to help teachers find cost-effective solutions for introducing technology in the classroom. 9. edudemic twitter: @edudemic the sheer volume of resources available at this site will blow you away. it’s a gold mine of new ideas and lesson plans. 10. principal’s reflections twitter: @e_sheninger eric sheninger reflects on digital leadership and how it affects parental communication and student and faculty engagement. he connects trends in technology with changes in the larger culture. 11. kleinspiration twitter: @kleinerin author and award-winning educator erin klein provides practical strategies to increase student achievement and engagement with technology. she earns top marks for her engaging and relevant website. 12. kathy schrock’s kaffeeklatsch twitter: @kathyschrock educational technologist kathy schrock shares her discoveries and insights about educational technology and its impact in the classroom. recent blog posts offer ideas for using pokemon go in the classroom and for creating 360° images with a cell phone. 13. teacher tech twitter: @alicekeeler a certified google trainer, alice keeler will help you keep up with google’s constant expansions. she’s exceptionally skilled in the use of google classroom. 14. the nerdy teacher twitter: @thenerdyteacher nicholas provenzano shares his ideas about being a connected educator. recent articles outline how to create a meaningful makerspace program. 15. tech & learning twitter: @techlearning the bloggers at tech & learning ponder issues around technology as well as practical tips for making the most of google classroom and the integration of stem. one of their recent offerings: an exploration of whether or not paper has become obsolete. 16. getting smart twitter: @getting_smart use this blog to follow professional development events and listen to podcasts about educational technology and leadership. recent topics include school transformation and leadership development in the classroom. 17. dangerously irrelevant twitter: @mcleod this blog addresses issues of social and ethical concern as they relate to the use of technology in the classroom. frequent topics include the development of self-actualization and leadership. 18. learning in hand twitter: @tonyvincent tony vincent’s technology blog has been around since the 1990s, and it’s still a treasure trove of advice and resources today. recently he provides tips for teacher ipad use and formative assessment tools. 19. speed of creativity twitter: @wfryer wesley fryer documents his work with students and educators around the globe in the creative use of multimedia. recently he offered a digital literacy challenge to create an information filter bot. 20. high techpectations twitter: @elemenous innovation consultant lucy gray curates resources, conferences, and professional development opportunities for innovative educators. her posts include weekly roundups of new edtech resources. 21. class tech tips twitter: @classtechtips edtech consultant dr. monica burns provides a rundown of all the latest technology tips and tricks. recently she demonstrated an app called kinvolved for taking attendance, as well as the annotation of images using an ipad. 22. learning with ‘e’s twitter: @timbuckteeth steve wheeler, a professor of educational technology, explores our changing culture and the ways teachers must adapt to it. his blog features periodic interviews with education influencers. 23. the innovative educator twitter: @innovativeedu lisa nielsen’s daily blog posts focus on ways to make education more relevant for students by embracing technology and channeling their passions. recent topics include how to teach students to evaluate the accuracy of the news, and how to tell if your students are digital learners. 24. educational technology and mobile learning twitter: @medkh9 med kharbach shares free tutorials and reviews of apps and tools. topics include how to convert pdfs to editable text and basic google classroom tips. 25. steve hargadon twitter: @stevehargadon a pioneer in the field of educational technology, steve hargadon offers timely suggestions for things like turning pcs into chromebooks and even has the occasional fun giveaway. articles focus on edtech as a vehicle to drive meaningful learning. 26. tcea twitter: @tcea officially the blog for the texas computer education association, this website is crammed with great ideas and resources for educators everywhere. most recently, it offers tips on photo editing and a roundup of leadership courses. 27. catlin tucker twitter: @catlin_tucker this blog offers a candid exploration of different solutions for blended learning. recent offerings explore the pros and cons of co-teaching. 28. the power of educational innovation school administrator liz davis chronicles her adventures in leading technology innovation in her school and her region. her recent posts tell a story of inspiring students to lead through an edcamp program. 29. cosn blog twitter: @cosn the official blog of the consortium for school networking presents occasional “trusted learning environment” articles, in which they focus on the technology implementation efforts of member school districts. this will inspire you to think of ways you can make your own school a “trusted learning environment.” 30. hack education twitter: @hackeducation this blog discusses how current policies and issues impact the future of education technology. recent articles ponder the potential effects of the trump presidency on edtech. 31. my paperless classroom twitter: @sampatue a tech integration specialist presents his real-life trials and triumphs. he also shares ideas for unique makerspace projects. 32. instructional tech talk twitter: @jeffherb jeff herb presents a potpourri of videos, podcasts, and articles about the effective use of technology tools. recently he has shared strategies for using ozobot, as well as tips for the use of online videos in the classroom. 33. emerging ed tech twitter: @emergingedtech daily posts include thoughts on how to use technology to improve reading. articles focus on edtech as a vehicle to drive meaningful learning. 34. middleweb twitter: @middleweb this blog focuses on the integration of technology in grades 4-8. it offers tools to revamp organizational systems and deepen student connections. 35. e-learning provocateur twitter: @ryantracey australian e-learning manager ryan tracy blogs about e-learning as a route to deeper thinking. he frequently ponders “cognitive reality:” the influence and potential of virtual and augmented reality. 36. tammy’s technology tips for teachers twitter: @tammyworcester tammy worcester works independently as an instructional technology specialist and curates hundreds of tools, tips, and ideas on her website. she is especially savvy at tricks for using google apps in unique ways in the classroom. 37. cycles of learning ramsay musallam relates how he uses unique approaches to technology to make instruction more meaningful to students. definitely a blog worth checking out. 38. start with a question twitter: @kerryhawk02 digital learning specialist kerry gallagher shares tips for safe and ethical use of technology in the classroom. recent provocative topics include the spread of fake news. 39. ed tech strategies twitter: @douglevin doug levin blogs about the current legal and political scene, and how policy affects the availability of technology in the classroom. most recently, he discussed possible fcc changes and how schools will be affected. 40. center for digital education twitter: @centerdigitaled this blog offers regular updates to news about efforts to implement technology in public and private schools. warnings about email scams and posts about mobile devices in schools will keep you up-to-date on issues affecting edtech. 41. on an e-journey with generation y twitter: @murcha an australian information technology teacher shares her ideas and experiences around fostering global connections in the classroom. she is especially masterful in her use of skype as a tool to teach about culture. 42. technology bits bytes and nibbles twitter: @cyndidannerkuhn a self-described “educational futurist,” cyndi danner-kuhn shares specific ideas and strategies for integrating technology into all aspects of learning. most recently, she wrote about how to integrate google apps into the rigor relevance framework. 43. educational technology guy twitter: @daveandcori david andrade shows teachers a variety of options to access free tools and resources for effective technology use in the classroom. recently he shared a framework to help education leaders pilot new technology. 44. edtech roundup twitter: @etroundup just as its name implies, this is a weekly “roundup” of all the latest edtech news and developments. this blog is ideal simply for staying informed about breakthroughs and trends. 45. teaching with technology twitter: @bethanypetty bethany petty shares tips and ideas that she learned from the trenches of her own flipped, blended and gamified classroom. 46. tom murray twitter: @thomascmurray tom is always busy helping school districts get connected. as the state and district digital learning policy and advocacy director for the alliance for excellent education, he helps lead an ambitious, forward-looking initiative called future ready. 47. bryan alexander twitter: @bryanalexander bryan alexander has been a leading authority on the educational technology industry for years. and in 2016, alexander’s work can be found all across the internet. his monthly reports on educational technology are a valuable source for those interested in staying on the cutting edge of the industry. 48. principals page a blog centered on school administration issues. in addition to personal anecdotes, tips, and education philosophy, he writes various articles for other websites that you can find on his site. 49. future of privacy forum blog twitter: @futureofprivacy data-protection issues take center stage on the future of privacy forum blog. educators can read all about the latest in student data laws and best practices. 50. gaggle speaks twitter: @gaggle_k12 the gaggle speaks blog advocates safety, in all of its forms. head here for tips and news related to security and protection for your one-to-one initiative, thoughtful pieces on digital citizenship and best practices for creating digital safety policies. see also: 11 best education documentaries on netflix find anything you need? share this list with other educators! related articles 20 free online tools to use during coronav... 20 free online tools to use during coronav... ‘e-learning can complement classroom lesso... ‘e-learning can complement classroom lesso... 5 tips to organize your classroom 5 tips to organize your classroom how to build skills for game development how to build skills for game development cyberbullying: what is it & how to stop it... cyberbullying: what is it & how to stop it... how to raise a reader at home (reading tip... how to raise a reader at home (reading tip... 5 tips when choosing an ib school (interna... 5 tips when choosing an ib school (interna... 5 characteristics of 21st century learners 5 characteristics of 21st century learners add a comment cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * please do not post: aggressive or discriminatory language profanities (of any kind) trade secrets or confidential information thank you once again for doing your part to keep edarabia the most trusted education source. trending how can body language improve communication? ‘e-learning can complement classroom lessons’, shares prof. ammar kaka how to get kids to eat fruits & vegetables 'equality is not just a women's issue,' says claire roper-browning how to develop a personal brand 6 things to consider when searching for a master’s degree program education policy reform in the uae: building teacher capacity are there positive effects of posting students’ grades publicly? what’s in store for students after graduation? facebook 47.3k followers twitter 34k followers linkedin 12.1k followers youtube 3.47k followers your #1 education guide about contacts advertise join 70,000+ subscribers universities directory jobs tutors schools educational suppliers events education news nurseries courses edtalk © edarabia.com - all rights reserved 2020 | privacy policy -terms & conditions - web design by grafdom