about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ 50 pantry-friendly recipes & substitutions that work 28 comments there’s a lot going on right now, and we’ll get through it together. i asked on instagram what kind of content you’d like to see as we stay home to flatten the curve. many of you requested flexible pantry-friendly recipes. you’ll find a large selection below, and i’m working on more to share soon. at the bottom of this post, you’ll find guidance on common substitutions. now is a good time to flex our creative powers in the kitchen and make the most of what we have. it’s also a great time to take on new cooking techniques, like homemade pasta or ricotta! i created a printable pantry ingredient checklist. you can access it any time at cookieandkate.com/pantry. use it to review your pantry setup for what may or may not be missing. you can then keep your list near your computer when you’re reviewing recipes to make. i hope it’s helpful. this pantry resource is organized into sections: soups & stews pasta casseroles rice eggs beans & lentils substitutions that work don’t see what you’re looking for? try typing an ingredient into the search bar (it’s underneath the logo at the top of each page) or peruse my ingredient index. soups & stews all of these soups make great leftovers (up to five days) and freeze well for later. the only soups that might not freeze well are those that are full of cheese, milk or cream—none of these are. sometimes, soups with pasta soak up more liquid as they rest or reheat, but i have not had significant issues with this when i use quality pasta (look for labels that indicate the pasta was processed on bronze dies). if you’re out of fresh greens or the suggested garnishes, don’t worry. these soups will still be great without them. lentil soup homemade vegetarian chili chickpea noodle soup quinoa vegetable soup with kale pinto posole classic minestrone soup pasta e fagioli seriously good vegetable soup spicy black bean soup west african peanut soup view all soup recipes here. pasta who doesn’t love pasta? i sure do. i try to incorporate a lot of vegetables into my pasta dishes to mitigate the simple carbohydrate factor. the shells and green pasta linked below are easily made with frozen greens rather than fresh. you can add frozen peas to mac and cheese or just about anything, really—drop them into simmering water and cook just until they’re warmed through the middle (it doesn’t take long). spinach stuffed shells lemony green pasta with peas and ricotta real stovetop mac and cheese or amazing vegan mac and cheese parmesan-crusted cauliflower steaks with marinara vegan spaghetti alla puttanesca view all pasta recipes here. you’ll find more pasta in the casseroles and lentils sections below. casseroles casseroles make for great leftovers and freeze well, too. think about how much casserole you’ll want to serve in portions later, and freeze those portions separately. i say that because they can take quite a while to thaw. while i intend to share a full-blown freezer guide soon, our preliminary tests are showing that baked lasagna freezes better for later than unbaked. be sure it cools completely through the center before freezing. vegetable lasagna or vegan lasagna baked ziti with roasted vegetables or lentil baked ziti roasted veggie enchilada casserole veggie black bean enchiladas better broccoli casserole spinach artichoke enchiladas black bean sweet potato enchiladas view all casseroles here. rice brown rice is an absolute staple in my pantry. i’m partial to long-grain brown rice (basmati or jasmine), and short-grain brown rice. i buy lundberg brand rice and cook it according to my foolproof brown rice method. since most of the rice recipes below are cooked, they’re quite amenable to frozen vegetables (the paella is, too). vegetable paella roasted brussels sprouts and crispy baked tofu with honey-sesame glaze thai-spiced peanut rice bowls build-your-own buddha bowl anything-goes kale salad with green tahini dressing thai red curry with vegetables thai green curry with spring vegetables veggie sushi bowls fried rice: extra-vegetable fried rice or spicy kale and coconut fried rice or thai pineapple fried rice risotto: roasted butternut squash risotto or spring pea and asparagus risotto or easy brown rice risotto with mushrooms and fresh oregano view all rice recipes here. eggs eggs are a quick-cooking source of protein, choline, vitamin a and more. scrambled eggs and fried eggs are best served fresh. frittatas keep well for several days—i like to serve them with toast, or even cut them into pieces for a quick taco filling or salad topper. the breakfast burritos shown below freeze well for later, if you’d like to make a big batch now to have on hand for future quick meals. how to make frittatas (stovetop or baked) foolproof shakshuka the creamiest scrambled eggs (with goat cheese) vegetarian breakfast burritos fresh huevos rancheros austin-style migas with black beans simple breakfast quesadillas view all egg recipes here. beans & lentils my most pantry-friendly bean recipes have already been featured in the lists above. have a surplus? check out recipes that call for black beans, chickpeas, pinto beans and white beans. lentils lentils, like beans, are a wonderful source of protein, fiber and other nutrients. unlike beans, they cook up in about 20 minutes. make a batch of perfectly cooked lentils and add it to your pasta with marinara for a vegetarian take on bolognese. or make a lentil salad—you can enjoy it as is, pile it onto greens, use it as a quesadilla stuffing with cheese, and so much more. hearty spaghetti with lentils & marinara sauce lentil baked ziti greek lentil salad mujadara (lentils and rice with caramelized onions) quick dal makhani roasted cauliflower and lentil tacos with creamy chipotle sauce view all lentil recipes here. substitutions that work i always try to write recipes with versatility in mind. any time you see multiple options listed within the ingredients section, rest assured that any one of them will work. also check below the recipe for a “change it up” section, which provides guidance on how to vary the ingredients. lastly, you can review the comments to see what has worked for other readers! canned tomatoes the most versatile canned tomatoes are whole peeled tomatoes because they are easily processed into diced or crushed tomatoes. to turn them into diced tomatoes, roughly dice them by hand or crush them with the back of a sturdy spoon as they cook. to turn them into crushed tomatoes, blitz whole or diced tomatoes in your food processor or blender until they are more smooth than chunky. tomato paste is great to have, too. if you don’t have fire-roasted tomatoes, substitute regular—you can always add a tiny pinch of smoked paprika if you miss the fiery flavor. fresh bell peppers for recipes that don’t rely on the raw crunch of bell pepper, substitute jarred roasted red peppers or frozen bell pepper strips. if using roasted red peppers, add them later in the cooking process than the instructions for raw peppers indicate (since they’re pre-cooked). not all roasted red peppers are made equal; i like divina and whole foods 365 brands. fresh herbs for recipes that call for a small amount of fresh herbs as an accent or garnish (say, less than 1/2 cup), you have a few options. you can simply omit them, or substitute dried herbs, or sometimes, you can substitute one herb for another (cilantro and parsley are occasionally interchangeable, but cilantro would likely taste out of place in an italian dish). when substituting dried herbs for fresh, use one-third of the amount specified (so if a recipe calls for one tablespoon—which is three teaspoons—fresh dill, use one teaspoon dried dill). you can always add more if desired. fresh greens and vegetables frozen greens and vegetables are great for cooked recipes that call for fresh greens or veggies. you wouldn’t want to make a spinach salad with frozen spinach (yuck), but frozen spinach would be great in a pasta dish—you likely wouldn’t notice much difference. likewise, i wouldn’t try to roast frozen broccoli, but frozen broccoli would be good in your mac and cheese. frozen produce that may come in useful: spinach, kale, peas, broccoli and/or cauliflower, bell peppers, and edamame. you might also appreciate frozen berries (blueberries, raspberries or mixed), pineapple and bananas (peel and slice into 1-inch pieces before freezing). tip: before using, i place my frozen vegetables or greens in a fine-mesh sieve and rinse off all the ice. i’m convinced this reduces freezer burn flavor, and it also helps defrost them before using. vegetable broth substitute water for vegetable broth, then add salt to taste when you’re done cooking. you likely won’t miss it (the one exception to this might be my chickpea noodle soup, since it’s the most brothy of the bunch). more resources you might appreciate: 23 healthy make-ahead breakfast recipes, 29 healthy comfort food recipes and 20 simple weeknight dinners. you might also like my monthly seasonal produce guides and essential kitchen tools. view all roundups and resource posts here. similar recipes 20 diy pantry recipes (make your own marinara sauce & more) the very best granola best lentil soup share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories pantry friendly, tips and resources ↢ newer quick chana masala older ↣ roasted garlic bread by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) sharon march 17, 2020 thank you for sharing this. it really makes a difference to connect via food via sites like yours — and very generous of you to share this kind of information and support at this challenging time. sharon reply kate march 18, 2020 you’re welcome, sharon! i’m happy to do my part to help during times like these. stay healthy! reply maureen b march 17, 2020 you can’t imagine how much i appreciate your efforts to help people get through these tough times. this is a very thoughtful idea that i will share with my neighbors and the people who run our local soup kitchen. some of those who frequent the soup kitchen do not have much in their pantries but sharing your ideas may just help more households get through. thank you! reply kate march 18, 2020 you’re welcome, maureen! yes, please share and i hope it’s helpful to them too. reply john march 17, 2020 thank you very much reply kate march 18, 2020 you’re welcome, john! reply hs march 17, 2020 dear kate, thank you so much for the encouragement and tools you’ve given us with this post.it has such a reassuring tone and actually settled my day. i live in one of the west coast hot spots, with three personal risk factors, so anxiety levels are pretty high around here! you’ve managed to ease some of that back down to more normal and what could be better than a warm meal made with your own two hands? thank you! reply kate march 17, 2020 you’re welcome! i’m happy i can do something to help in a time like this. i hope you and your loved ones stay safe! reply rachel march 17, 2020 this is a wonderful, useful reference. last night i was planning what we could make in batches and freeze, to make sure we have some healthy meals stashed away should we be confined to home for a few weeks. it was your recipes i went to – because they’re delicious but most importantly, because i can rely on them. thank you. reply kate march 18, 2020 i’m happy it’s helpful to you, rachel! stay healthy :) reply shirley march 17, 2020 so helpful. and i enjoy all the pretty photos of these delicious meals. thank you kate! reply kate march 18, 2020 you’re welcome, shirley! reply tammy march 17, 2020 thank you so much for this, kate. it’s so kind and helpful of you to put this together for us. reply kate march 18, 2020 you’re welcome, tammy! i’m happy to do what i can to help at times like these. reply britt march 17, 2020 thank you so much! this is so helpful! we love your recipes! reply kate march 18, 2020 you’re welcome, britt! i hope you can discover something new you love in this roundup. :) reply erin march 18, 2020 thank you! seriously this is helpful now, but any time honestly. really appreciate your notes on substitutions and suggestions. shared with my co-op preschool group. reply ellen light march 18, 2020 i made your vegetable bean quinoa soup. it was a joy to cut up all those healthy vegetables and smell it cooking all day. we put a tablecloth on the table (a small act of gratitude in these difficult lonely times) to lighten things up and remember there is always something to be thankful for. and thank you for sending these wonderful recipes. reply carlotta march 19, 2020 thank you for sharing these pantry ready recipes during such a stressful time. your blog and recipes are my favorites and hit all the right notes for health and comfort. so appreciate your care and time on this. your recipes are helping to focus our anxieties into the kitchen with beautiful food and healthy eating. reply kate march 19, 2020 you’re welcome! i want to be able to do what i can during a time like this. i hope your kitchen can bring some joy! :) reply gale march 20, 2020 i have tried several of your vegan recipes and must say that the food is exceptionally delicious. your culinary work is the best i have ever found. i am so happy to find recipes that everyone loves. thank you. reply jo march 20, 2020 this is awesome – thank you so much. i really appreciate the time that has gone into creating this post. question – what would be a suitable substitute for tinned tomatoes if we had no tomatoes at all? i know that it would change the flavour of the meal, but in terms of balancing out the liquid/mass needed to bulk the meal, what would you advise? i get varying results with additional stock/water (also being mindful of the sodium levels in the meal…) and extra peppers/zucchini (courgette), and i’m not sure if this is not understanding the balance of liquid to veg in a tin of tomatoes… reply kate march 23, 2020 you’re welcome, jo! unfortunately, it would depend on the recipe and i don’t have a great suggestion right now. the liquid does play into it, but it’s also the flavor. reply sharon wendling march 21, 2020 you are the best!! i love your recipes! reply kate march 24, 2020 aw, thanks sharon :) i’m happy you are enjoying them! reply julie march 22, 2020 actually i’ve tried roasting frozen california blend vegetables and they tastes great. add a little lemon juice and parmesan cheese and it’s quite tasty. reply virginia sancilio cross march 22, 2020 i have made several of your recipes and never disappointed!! you make preparing vegetarian dishes simple & easy to follow. thank you for sharing your love of cooking!! reply kate march 24, 2020 wonderful, virginia! reply hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}