skip to content (press enter) home blog seo off page seo article submission forum posting pdf submission ping submission profile creation web 2.0 search engine submission on page seo advanced link building tools trim url social media facebook twitter linkedin pinterest social media tools interview services consulting digital marketing ppc seo social media seo mumbai seo new york seo social media verification facebook verification twitter verification instagram verification about advertise contact contribute featured make a donation list of donors invite bloggers rahul yadav digital marketing consultant & seo expert delhi, india home blog seo off page seo article submission forum posting pdf submission ping submission profile creation web 2.0 search engine submission on page seo advanced link building tools trim url social media facebook twitter linkedin pinterest social media tools interview services consulting digital marketing ppc seo social media seo mumbai seo new york seo social media verification facebook verification twitter verification instagram verification about advertise contact contribute featured make a donation list of donors invite bloggers august 4, 2018february 4, 2019/ rahul yadav 50+ powerful digital marketing tools for smart marketers blogging if you’re already into digital marketing or have just started understanding the way it works, you may definitely want to know which tools are best in the market and how can they help you increase the reach of your site or blog and help you grow your revenue returns. well here’s the list of some tools and what can they do for you: 50+ tools you can use to enhance social media marketing social media is the most important and easiest way to gain audience for your blog or website. with the growing internet user base understanding the need of the customers is crucial. take a look at apps that can help you out: buzzsumo buzzsumo helps you find the keywords for a particular type of content. it analyses the content for you and gives you the keywords, people have been searching for or are using the most. this is a very beneficial tool that can help you in understanding need and promoting the content. canva canva is a free graphics site that lets you design absolutely free, creative, and stylish and eye catching projects that you can post on social media. diggdigg it is a plugin that helps increase your page or blog reach by approximately seven times and brings in a lot of organic traffic. it makes easy for your readers to share your articles on various platforms by using a floating bar with buttons on your page. hootsuite hootsuite allows you to manage all your social media handles more proficiently by creating a social media dashboard for you. quick sprout quick sprout is a tool by neil patel (top web influencer) that helps you analyse and understand the seo, social media impact, mobile responsiveness etc.of your site or blog. it helps you understand how your content would be perceived in a way. you must definitely give this one a shot. shared count shared count help you track your social activities better by simply tracking how many times the content from your site or blog was shared, liked etc. it also helps enhance the user engagement. sprout social sprout social is a tool that helps with effective social media management. it helps you find new customers and increase their social media engagement foe your business. agorapulse agorapulse helps you manage all your social media handles at once. you can collectively post on all of them at once. it also helps you enhance the customer engagement and stay in touch with your followers. woorank woorank helps improving your website rank and online visibility by evaluating your website based on 50 criteria, from seo friendliness to social media and much more. pay per click tools ‘pay per click’ is a concept where you pay the host website for every click that diverts the user to your page. optimize press helps you create the landing pages (where users are diverted after clicking the link.), sales pages, etc in wordpress. while optimizely lets you test and experiment on your digital products, campaigns etc. seo tools seo is short for search engine optimization. it plays a crucial role in the ranking of your webpage. ahrefs it gives you a detailed information on why the other pages are ranking high, by giving a detailed info on their keywords, backlinks, traffic diverted on their site, etc. google keyword planner it helps you find the right keywords relevant to your content, that helps bringing in display advertisements,search ads, etc that brings in the traffic. majestic it is an intelligence database that helps you explore domains and urls, see the number of backlinks, and shows inbound summary and data. moz local it helps ranking your local business by increasing your visibility in the local search engines results. it make sure that your business is visible to people. moz link explorer it helps you find backlinks, anchor text, perform competitive link search etc. and much more. mozbar it is a free extension available for chrome that makes it easy for you to get advance metrics and do all your seo on the go. semrush it searches for detailed competitive and paid keyword data by domains and see what everyone else is doing. seo book it offers marketing tips, search analysis, online business tips, a wide range of seo tools and seo professionals. text broker it helps you find the right content for your site by offering content writing services, that helps you create a unique style for your site. ubersuggest it helps you find right key words for your content within minutes. unbounce it helps you build and test landing pages, website popups, etc and improves post click conversion rates. upwork it helps you find best freelance workers across the world in your budget. yoast it is a wordpress seo pluginthat helps you with optimizing yoursite,adding better meta titles and generatingxml sitemaps. data and analytical tools buildwith tells you what script or template is used to build the site. google analytics lets you monitor your site’s traffic in detail. google search console provides you detailed report on indexing statuses and visibility of the site. email marketing tools aweber provides you promote your product with one time automated email, setup email services and much more to engage the audience. get response lets you host webinars, create landing pages, marketing automations, etc. mailchimp is a marketing automation platform that helps you manage subscribers, track results and send mails, content marketing tools buzz stream helps you find influencers, manage emails and helps you analyse your campaigns. copyscape comes in handy when you want to check if the content of/on your site is plagiarised. crazyegg gives you an insight on how your customers are engaged with your website and how can you boost that up. haro help a reporter gives you an opportunity to become a news source, which means you can ask a reporter to write about you and your company. hubspot’s blog topic generator helps you find topics for your blog post withthe help of a keyword. lead pages is an online tool you can use for collecting e-mail subscribers. they have templates you can use to manage leads create landing pages, host webinars, etc. medium gives you a platform to read and write and share the stories that matters the most. optinmonster is an online lead generator that turns abandoning visitors into subscribers. picmonkey is a photo editing app that helps you add frames, filters, text etc. prezi is a presentation software that you can use to create really attractive ppts. sumo offers you a lot of free tools that can be used to grow traffic on your site. wistia provides software for creating official videos for businesses and marketing tools to understand your traffic. quora is an open q/a platform, where a lot of bloggers and marketers answer questions and promote their business. related posts: 15 best twitter marketing tools for social media marketers 7 seo tools for better youtube marketing the future of digital marketing in india | scope of… 50 social media tools to flood your site with… 10 best practices to improve your e-commerce online… 25+ top app store optimization (aso) tools to get… 9 best youtube seo tools for rank your videos rahul yadav rahul yadav is digital marketing consultant and expert in delhi, india. he provides seo, social media marketing & ppc consulting services worldwide. contact at gitm.rahul@gmail.com post navigation prev posthow does pinterest work? know its benefits for a blogger next postbest 10 way to earn money playing games online leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name* email* website search for: “i’m an indiblogger!” hi, i am rahul yadav a digital marketing consultant and seo expert in delhi, india. i work with new startups, entrepreneurs, freelancers, and bloggers. i am a professional blogger and i write, speak, and consult mostly about how to blog tips, seo news, products reviews, inbound marketing, social media marketing etc. related posts: 15 best twitter marketing tools for social media marketers 7 seo tools for better youtube marketing the future of digital marketing in india | scope of… 50 social media tools to flood your site with… 10 best practices to improve your e-commerce online… 25+ top app store optimization (aso) tools to get… 9 best youtube seo tools for rank your videos 11 ways to increase your ecommerce traffic & sales 5 free blog post title generators & analyzers for… what is an xml sitemap? how to create a sitemap in… how to submit blogger sitemap to google webmaster tools? should you hire a agency for social media 5 best solution for blog posts interlinking in wordpress 14 ways to use twitter to market your business 8 best twitter tools to unfollow non followers recent posts top 20 graphic designing company in india an interview with victor blasco, ceo yum yum videos an interview with stuart walker from nichehacks sorav jain from echovme – an interview on digital marketing legal and technical hurdles surrounding online casino in india top 10 digital marketing training institute in ahmedabad top 10 social media marketing companies in delhi top 10 best tech websites you should bookmark right now top 5 digital marketing institutes and training course in ambala 9 ways to really boost your ecommerce project about us rahul yadav is a digital marketing consultant from new delhi, india. he is also an author, speaker and trainer in the field of digital marketing. he trains students, professionals and business men on digital marketing. related posts: 15 best twitter marketing tools for social media marketers 7 seo tools for better youtube marketing the future of digital marketing in india | scope of… 50 social media tools to flood your site with… recent posts top 20 graphic designing company in india an interview with victor blasco, ceo yum yum videos an interview with stuart walker from nichehacks sorav jain from echovme – an interview on digital marketing categories categories select category adsense affiliate marketing ahmedabad amazon analysis android apps australia blogger blogging business chennai content coupon courses deals delhi digital marketing dubai ecommerce email marketing facebook fashion food guest blogging guest post guwahati haryana health hosting hyderabad ias iit instagram interview interview questions jaipur kerala keyword research laptop link building linkedin make money malaysia mumbai new zealand noida orm paid post pakistan patna pinterest podcast ppc pune seo singapore snapchat social media sri lanka startup tool travel twitter uncategorized updated vlogging web design wordpress youtube partner with rahul digital copyright © 2020 rahul yadav. creative business | developed by rara theme. powered by wordpress.