barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up travel 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest christen groves writer shares share tweet pin there is so much natural beauty in the world, and most of us will never see even a fraction of it. there are always a million excuses to put off a life altering trip- money, work, kids, timing. life is too short to miss out on the good stuff, and even shorter for our canine companions. put all the adult baggage aside for a while and take your best friend on the adventure of a lifetime. you won’t regret it, and your dog will never forget it. 1. snoqualmie mountain pass in washington you’ll find all sorts of winter fun in this snowy wonderland, and you just might find yourself saying “fido, i don’t think we’re in a wardrobe anymore….” 2. mount pleasent in virginia, usa a blanket, a view, and your dog–all you need is a snack, and you’re ready for one magical nap! 3. banff national park in canada this isn’t the dog park down the street–welcome to canada’s oldest national park! 6,500 miles of glaciers, ice fields, and coniferous forests ready for you and your pup to explore. 4. venice, italy sit back and relax as you tour venice in the comfort of a gondola with your furry best friend! 5. glacier peak in washington, usa ready to say you hiked washington’s most active volcano with your dog? just remember to bring a hammock big enough for two because you will want to sit and enjoy the view. 6. beartooth mountains, u.s these beautiful mountains are located in south central montana and northwest wyoming. brb civilization, strolling into the sunset with my dog #yolo 7. naples, italy take a dip in the amalfi coast after you and your pup enjoy a big bowl of spaghetti, lady and the tramp style. just don’t forget to wait 30 minutes before you swim/dog-paddle. 8. lake tahoe, usa whether you and your pup want some summer or winter fun, lake tahoe is enjoyable year round, and is also the largest alpine lake in north america. 9. vienna, austria howl along with your pup as you two stroll through “the city of music.” you’re both bound to have a barking good time! 10. new england, usa if you and your pup decide to explore historic new england, the north eastern area of the u.s comprising of connecticut, maine, massachusetts, new hampshire, rhode island, and vermont, get ready to frolic over hundreds of beautiful bridges like the one in the picture below! 11. the louvre in paris, france this central landmark in “the city of love” is the perfect place for you and your furry best friend to ponder the wonders of art and culture. 12. horseshoe bend in page, arizona, usa what better place to get down on one knee and pop a box of milkbones than 1000 ft above the colorado river, during sunset. 13. warsaw, poland pad through warsaw multimedia fountain park and watch the exquisite water/light show that takes place at night! 14. great san dunes national park get ready to run across the tallest sand dunes in north america! don’t worry, it’s unlikely you guys’ll run into any cats in this sandbox! 15. quebec, canada enjoy the friendly atmosphere and european charm of this gorgeous historic city. oh, and heads up, you’re dog will probably want to stop for a montreal smoked meat sandwich. 16. portland, maine visit the iconic washington park, or try one of the many coffee houses or microbreweries right at your paws! 17. buffalo peaks, colorado, usa keep you’re eyes peeled for colorado’s largest herd of bighorn sheep as you and your pups pretend like you’re on a quest through middle earth. 18. luxembourg garden in paris, france tour the beautiful palace grounds of marie de’ medici, and pretend like it’s your home for the day. but seriously, don’t forget your dog–you can’t really pretend some place is your home if your dog isn’t there. 19. purcell mountains, british columbia, canada take in breathtaking views as you and your pup campaign across canada’s southeastern mountain range. 20. san francisco, california don’t furget your selfie stick! you and your pup will want a picture with this iconic californian landmark! 21. winter park in colorado, usa winter park offers a variety of snow fun like skiing, and snowshoeing. it’s the perfect place for hoomans who love to be active with their pups! 22. the leaning tower of pisa in pisa, italy let your creative juices flow and see how many pics you can get of your dog “interacting” with the leaning tower of pisa. 23. cala carbo, spain drink daiquiris for two, beach-side, as you and your dog enjoy this lovely pebble beach. 24. yoho national park in british columbia, canada sit back, hand in paw, relax, and enjoy the breathtaking view of takakkaw falls 25. lake mead, las vegas, usa you and your dog can spend hours exploring the many little coves and rocky cliffs that surround lake mead, or you can simply relax and sunbathe on the shore. 26. rome, italy with a history over 2,000 years old, rome offers a lot to explore. that, and hundreds of pawfect photo ops between you and your dog. 27. cyclades, greece take your pup for a dip in the aegean sea or discover some of the countries most pawsome ruins! 28. château in chenonceaux, france pad around the grounds of this breathtaking castle and make your pup feel like king for a day! 29. stockholm, sweden walk down cobblestone streets and dip your paws into the baltic sea! or one of the cities many fountains… 30.budapest, hungary gaze upon st. stephen’s basilica or simply wonder the streets and see how many puns you can make about you’re dog “always being hungary.” 31. scheveningen, zuid-holland, netherlands explore long sandy beaches, a harbor, and even a lighthouse! all of which is way more fun when you have your dog walking alongside you. 33. château des baux in les baux-de-provence, france a day in this french fortress will have you and your dog feeling like a stark and their direwolf! 34. the baltic sea enclosed by scandinavia, finland, the baltic countries, and the north european plain, this atlantic sea is the perfect exotic destination for you and your dog. 35. las vegas, nevada, u.s. one of the few places in the world where you can act like that crazy dog person, and still not be the craziest person there. #vivalasvegas 36.the eiffe tower in paris, france after gazing upon the eiffel tower, sit down with a street artist and get a caricature drawing of you and your furry best friend (at least it’s okay if they draw your dogs nose too big). 37. seven sisters, sussex turn on the most epic song you have and just run. your dog will enjoy loping along your side and you will feel like a king. 38. hogwarts time to pack your trunk and head to kings cross station in london, england! definitely bring your dog (we all know it was a huge typo when harry’s letter read “you may bring an owl, a cat, or a toad.” since when was toad man’s best friend?) 39. vancouver, canada this coastal seaport offers a beautiful city for you and your pup to explore and is also close to nature! 40. barcelona, spain nothing better than a quirky city with your quirky best friend! 41. florida, u.s. with beaches, theme parks, and tons of tourist activity, florida is the perfect summertime destination for you and your pup. 42. isle of wight in england hoomans have been vacationing at this english island since victorian times– what are you and your dog waiting for?! 43. new york city, new york, u.s. explore the city that never sleeps and treat your pup to a hot-dog from one of those classic nyc hot dog stands. 44. milan, italy treat your dog (and yourself!) to an extravagant evening in the financial hub, where you will find fine dining and shopping! 45. the northern lights seeing lots of wavy gray lights in the sky is definitely on your dog’s bucket list! 46. keyhole hot springs, whistler, canada a dog friendly hot tub? yes please! 47. colorado, usa. just wherever these guys are. i mean c’mon. this is pawfect. 48. yosemite national park in california, usa let your dog release his inner “call of the wild” as you two explore one of america’s most amazing national parks. 49. malibu beach in california, usa sand in your toes (or paw pads) a nice beer (or kong), and a beautiful view? yes please. 50. northern norway northern norway, the three northernmost counties nordland, troms and finnmark, offer breathtaking views for you and your pup to explore. 51. peyto lake in alberta, canada cozy up and enjoy the view of this magical glacier-fed lake, located in alberta, canada. featured image via @kylekesterson comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up christen groves writer are you accidentally crushing your dog’s spirit? 15 surprising dog allergies this is how dogs detect low blood sugar in folks with diabetes 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go