home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog rugged maniac 5k april 1, 2016 by erin weiss 2 comments if you've been reading live life active for a while now, you've seen me do tons of mud runs (warrior dash, rebel race, patriot challenge and more) because i absolutely love them, but now i've added one more to my belt. the rugged maniac! there's something about getting totally dirty and jumping through mud that a part of me just loves. i guess it brings back … [read more...] stay fit while traveling june 3, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment staying active while traveling can be a challenge. sometimes it's easy to get stuck in a typical vacation grind of sleeping in, laying on the beach and drinking piña coladas all day. sure that sounds like a great vacation, but wouldn't you be happier if you were able to squeeze in a fun workout in between your piña colada and your pool time? i'm not talking about getting … [read more...] neon dash 5k april 27, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment this post is sponsored by fitfluential llc on behalf of neon dash. neon is oh-so-hot right now ;) my parents came to visit this weekend and somehow we got to talking about how neon is everywhere lately. we walked into breakfast right after talking about this and laughed because we saw this guy wearing florescent yellow shorts and shoes that nearly blinded us when we walked … [read more...] ditka dash 5k race review december 2, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment this past weekend i ran the ditka dash 5k! i would have to say this was one of my all time favorite 5k races i've ever run in. even though it was cold, it beats out a lot of the other races i've done. as we all know, mike ditka is a chicago legend. he's da coach and has a killer mustache. this race also helped the movember charities raise money for prostate … [read more...] color me rad 2013 september 17, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment this past weekend i ran in the color me rad 5k in indianapolis. we signed up to run at 9:40am which was nice as it wasn't too early. we checked in and got our free tshirt and sunglasses. i have to say...color me rad officially has the highest quality shirts. i love my shirt from 2012 and this one was just as cute!! the material they use isn't a typical cotton..it's high … [read more...] my next goal, meal prep and an awesome shoe organizer september 15, 2013 by erin weiss 3 comments you have got to check out my newest toy! it's a shoe wheel to keep my shoes organized! gosh i'm obviously getting old when i get this excited about a shoe organizer. yikes! i got the organizer here because my closet had recently turned into a big sloppy mess of shoes. i am a fitness shoe fanatic so i like to take care of them. when they are piled at the bottom of my … [read more...] patience is key september 13, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment happy friday!!! i haven't posted a personal blog post this week yet, so i thought i was due for one. i took tuesday and thursday off as rest days this week but have hit the gym hard every other day. (hint: hover over any of my images to post to pinterest!) in the past 6 months i've been really focusing on building my upper body. since i was a soccer player my … [read more...] my first spin class july 12, 2013 by erin weiss 2 comments it may be hard to believe but yesterday i took my first ever spinning class! i have always wanted to take a spin class but it just hadn't happened yet. i love trying new things and switching up my cardio routines. i had to rush to lifetime fitness to get to the class and ended up walking in just as the class was starting ( i absolutely hate being late..it's one of my … [read more...] patriot challenge 5k mud run july 8, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment this past weekend we did the patriot challenge 5k mud run. this was the first time we have done this race and we had a blast! it took place in indianapolis, in at lucas oil raceway and was dedicated to america's heroes; our military, the police, firemen, all first responders and especially the heros of 9-11. all proceeds were donated to the wish for our heroes … [read more...] jimmy buffett concert 2013 july 1, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment well i can officially cross another thing off my 101 in 1001 list. 101 in 1001 goals completed: #48. see 3 concerts (1 of 3 completed) saturday afternoon we drove up to chicago for the jimmy buffett concert at northerly island. i've been to about 4 or 5 buffett concerts now but this one was my favorite venue because of the view of the chicago skyline! how beautiful … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in