wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » 6 best wordpress lms plugins compared (pros and cons) 6 best wordpress lms plugins compared (pros and cons) last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 1.4k shares share tweet share pin are you looking for an lms plugin for your wordpress site? learning management system (lms) plugins allow you to create and run online courses like udemy with wordpress. a perfect wordpress lms plugin includes features for managing your online course content, handling subscriptions, running and grading quizzes, accepting payments, etc. in this article, we will compare the best wordpress lms plugins with pros and cons to help you choose the perfect solution for your online learning website. getting started with learning websites to build a training website with wordpress, first, you will need to sign up for a wordpress hosting account. it will be your website’s home on the internet. you will also need a domain name. this will be your website’s address on the internet (e.g. wpbeginner.com) we recommend using bluehost or siteground. they are among the largest hosting companies in the world, and they are both officially recommended by wordpress. next, you will need to install wordpress on your website. you can follow the instructions in our step by step guide on how to install wordpress, and you will be up and running in minutes. once you have installed wordpress, you will be ready to choose a wordpress lms plugin for your website. let’s take a look at some of the best wordpress lms plugins side-by-side, so you can choose the one that works best for your needs. 1. learndash learndash is the most popular wordpress lms plugin on the market. it is also the most easy to use lms plugin with tons of features. learndash comes with a simple drag and drop course builder which allows you to easily create multi-layer courses with lessons, topics, quizzes, and categories. you can deliver all your lessons at once or schedule them for the entire course duration with its drip-feed content feature. using learndash, you can give user assignments and then approve or comment on them. it also comes with quiz and test management tools with multiple question types. you can easily set prerequisites for students such as finishing a lesson first before going to the next lesson. it offers plenty of monetization options including subscriptions, one-time purchase, memberships, shopping cart, etc. for your online training course. you can accept payments using multiple payment gateways including paypal, stripe, and 2checkout. it also integrates beautifully with bbpress, wordpress ecommerce plugins, and wordpress membership plugins like memberpress. a great learndash feature is dynamic forums which lets you create course-specific forums where your students can interact with and help each other. price: starting from $159 for a single site license with 1 year of support and updates. grade: a+ review: learndash is the most user-friendly and flexible lms plugin for wordpress users. it comes with comprehensive set of features to manage your online courses. learndash has integration with many third-party plugins and tools which make it even more powerful. it is a perfect lms tool suitable for schools, training organizations, entrepreneurs, and anyone who wants to create and sell online courses with ease. for a detailed learndash review and set up instructions, see our tutorial on how to easily create an online course with wordpress using learndash 2. lifterlms lifterlms is another powerful wordpress lms plugin with a lot of neat features. it allows you to create engaging online courses and offer wonderful learning experiences to your students. it is easy to set up, even on existing wordpress sites. lifterlms supports multi-tier courses with training modules, lessons, categories, etc. the plugin gives you the flexibility to create smaller courses or full-fledged degree programs. you can add multimedia lessons including video, audio, text, images, and more to make your courses more appealing. it has content dripping, course pre-requisites, and group memberships to offer even greater control over the entire course duration. to boost user engagement, it comes with powerful features like automated emails, gamification with badges, and even certificates upon completion of a course. it has built-in content restriction allowing you to restrict any wordpress page on your site to members only. lifterlms has a useful collection of addons, which you can use to manage affiliates, integrate with ecommerce plugins, connect to your email marketing service, etc. lifterlms plugin allows you to easily sell online courses using wordpress. you can quickly set up credit card payments, one-time or recurring payments, course bundles, coupons, etc. it can accept payments with paypal, stripe, or manually via check. pricing: individual addons for $99 each (single site), or universal plan for $299 for single site. grade: a review: lifterlms is a powerful and flexible choice for a wordpress lms plugin. it is easy to use, and the setup wizard even installs a demo course for you. it is useful for fitness experts, musicians, leadership trainers, education entrepreneurs, and anyone who want to earn money by selling online lessons. it is a little more expensive, and the pricing will add up if you choose to buy individual add-ons. 3. teachable teachable is a powerful online course builder. it is not a wordpress plugin but you can use it on a sub-domain, a custom domain name, or simply adding a link to your school’s page. teachable hosts your course and provides you a complete set of tools needed to build highly interactive online courses. it also comes with built-in email marketing integration, analytics, and other marketing tools. for payments, teachable will handle your course fees and you will be paid out using paypal or stripe. payment periods may vary depending on your pricing plan. pricing starting from $29 per month grade: b+ review: teachable offers a complete set of tools need to create, manage, and sell online courses. it can handle any number of students and courses. since it is a standalone platform, you wouldn’t be responsible for updates and backups. the downside is that it is expensive than other wordpress lms plugins. if you are on their basic plan, then you will be charged a 5% fees on each transaction. 4. learnpress learnpress is a free wordpress lms plugin with powerful features. unlike other lms plugins in this list, which come with a setup wizard, learnpress lets you do the setup on your own. course creation is easy with the help of lessons, quizzes, and questions. you can use lessons and quizzes from one course into another course. it also lets you export content, so that you can use it on other wordpress sites using learnpress. it has both free and paid addons available, which allow you to extend the features. it supports scheduled content (content drip), quizzes, assignments, grading, etc. it also supports integration with bbpress, woocommerce, and wordpress membership plugins. there are also some wordpress lms themes created with this plugin. if you cannot decide which wordpress theme to choose for your learning website, then you can use one of those themes. doing so saves your site from breaking due to theme and plugin compatibility error. pricing: free + paid addons and support grade: b+ review: we found learnpress to be feature-rich and flexible. the initial setup may be a bit difficult for beginners. it supports paypal by default, and other payment gateways are available as paid add-ons. support is available from official forums for paid subscribers, and limited support is offered to free users. the free version is limited and you will have to buy add-ons to make the most out of it. 5. wp courseware wp courseware is a popular lms plugin for wordpress. it is a drag and drop course creation tool for creating an online learning website easily. course creation in wp courseware is powerful and comes with tons of features to create large or small online courses. each course can have multiple modules, units, and quizzes. it supports course pre-requisites and content drip features. see our guide on how to add a lms in wordpress with wp courseware. it supports instructor profiles, instructor grade book, student grade books, custom emails, and many other features that help create an engaging experience for users. it also comes with a question bank so that you can quickly create quizzes for different courses and modules. wp courseware includes powerful monetization features to sell courses on your website. it has a built-in shopping cart option where you can directly connect paypal or stripe and start selling your courses. you can also create free courses and offer some valuable content to your users free of cost. sometimes, free content inspires users to buy the full course. you can sell the premium content for one-time purchase or recurring subscriptions. pricing: starting from $129 for 2 sites with 1 year of support and updates. grade: b review: wp courseware is a good choice to build your online courses. it is easy to use and comes with flexible options which gives you the freedom to create an engaging learning environment. best of all, it works with any wordpress theme without any contradiction. 6. sensei sensei is a powerful wordpress lms plugin created by the folks behind woocommerce. it is flexible and easy to use and follows the same best practices as wordpress and woocommerce. course creation with sensei is easy, but it is not as powerful as with other solutions. you can run quizzes, assignments, grade them automatically or manually, and even offer badges and certificates to students. to sell your courses and accept payments you will need to use woocommerce. for each course you want to sell, you will have to create a product and then link it to your course. there are not many third-party integrations available. you can integrate sensei with a membership plugin, but there is no addon for that. pricing: starting from $129 for a single site license with 1 year of support and updates. grade: b review: sensei is a good solution to offer online courses. if you already run an online store using woocommerce, then this will perfectly integrate with your store. however, we feel that woocommerce integration is hard for beginner users. there are also fewer features and addons for sensei than other lms plugins in this list. conclusion after comparing the top 5 wordpress lms plugins, we come to the conclusion that learndash is clearly the best option for most users. it is effortless to use with tons of features and lots of cool integrations for users who need them. lifterlms is a close second with an intuitive user interface and great set of features. it’s a perfect leardash alternative you can use. we hope this article helped you compare the best wordpress lms plugins with their pros and cons. you may also want to see our list of 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 1.4k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 50 commentsleave a reply diana says: nov 5, 2019 at 4:12 pm thanks for the great info! i’d like to create a course(s) on my existing blog. is that possible? do plugins like learndash and wp courseware take up a lot of bandwidth? i’m wondering if i should check with my host before adding a course plugin? reply wpbeginner support says: nov 6, 2019 at 9:23 am yes, you can use these on an already set up site. the plugins shouldn’t be a large jump in resources but if you are concerned you can feel free to check with your hosting provider. reply tony says: jul 13, 2019 at 2:19 pm after watching several videos on learndash, i was excited to give it a go on my wp website, but then i saw on the learndash website faq that “learndash cannot be installed on a site hosted at wordpress.com.” this doesn’t made sense to me. do you know of alternatives? any advice you can provide would be much appreciated. btw, thanks so much for the excellent article. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 15, 2019 at 11:32 am our tutorials are for wordpress.org sites, for understanding the difference between wordpress.com and wordpress.org you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/self-hosted-wordpress-org-vs-free-wordpress-com-infograph/ reply tony says: jul 15, 2019 at 11:35 am thanks so much! reply patil says: may 4, 2019 at 7:07 am does all or some of the above plugins allow adsense ads to be displayed within course content/pages ? reply wpbeginner support says: may 6, 2019 at 1:51 pm some of them do, you would want to reach out to the plugin’s support for the specifics of what is available. reply nihal singh says: apr 12, 2019 at 6:41 am thank you for including lifterlms in your wordpress lms plugin evaluation web beginner! these are exciting times for education entrepreneurs looking to generate income by turning their expertise and life experience into impactful online courses. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 12, 2019 at 11:27 am you’re welcome, glad you like the plugin reply kamran javed says: mar 17, 2019 at 12:38 am hi, i just want to create a lms website like fiver or upwork. i want to provide opportunities to teacher’s to sell their courses and student’s purchase these courses as per their need. which plugin is best for creating these type of lms. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 1:15 pm each plugin has a method for setting up something like this, depending on the specific customizations you want, you would want to reach out to the plugins’ support for if they would be a good fit for how you want to structure it. reply zafer says: feb 22, 2019 at 6:59 am i am looking for groups/teams functionality this is mostly for businesses: a group leader/manager from a business should be able to manage his/her team accounts. -add, remove members -assign courses, pay for member -track members process (eg..completer courses, exams and results) reply wpbeginner support says: feb 22, 2019 at 11:15 am you may want to reach out to learndash with your specific needs and they should have what you’re wanting. reply ken weatherford says: dec 4, 2018 at 3:57 pm for all readers, i have incorporated learndash into the university theme and it works real well, we spent some time figuring out how and where to incorporate it. we finally concluded that the course description pages were the best places to incorporate learndash. i also have been using/developing courses in the masterstudy theme. i was disappointed to learn that you couldn’t create plans without a lot of custom development. as soon as i got all of the custom work done, stylemix finally comes out with an upgrade that incorporates plans and turned the theme into an lms. in my opinion, after two years of developing and research, these are probably the best combinations (the latest masterstudy theme or university/learndash together). reply david panang says: jul 3, 2018 at 9:16 pm does any one of the mentioned lms support live interactions via webcams and whiteboards??? reply mor says: jul 1, 2018 at 7:48 am hi, i am going to ask about a plugin that assist me in payment and content restrict. i need to restrict an online exam to the none payment users. as soon as they pay this appear on their screens. as you surely figure out, the content is not a purchasable content like cloths or downloadable such as a pdf file as a virtual content, therefore, i’m not sure whether woocommerce can help me or not. i would like to choose a free plugin if it is possible. please guide me! reply bayonle says: nov 22, 2018 at 2:35 am you can use paid membership pro. if your country does not support the payment methods offered through paid membership pro then you can use with woocommerce. reply diana says: apr 8, 2018 at 10:59 am i’d like to create a small self-directed course that people would pay a one-time fee for and have lifetime access to. i’d like to incorporate some instructional videos, pdf downloads, and maybe some quizzes. the customer would learn by reading written content and thru the video tutorials. would the free plugin work for this? i’ve never offered a course before and want to start off small and then build from there. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 8, 2018 at 2:45 pm hi diana, yes, however it may require you to buy paid addons later for additional functionality if needed. reply aaron says: mar 28, 2018 at 7:36 am hi, i am looking to join an lms but want to make sure that the one i select can cater to what i am looking for. i am creating a membership site with 3 options for membership. membership 1 – £50 joining fee and no recurring payments. membership 2 – £50 joining fee and £5 monthly recurring payments. membership 3 – £50 joining fee and £10 monthly recurring payments. i am struggling to find confirmation that providers will allow me to have a one off joining charge plus a recurring monthly fee together. most other lms providers will only allow 1 or the other and not both. any information on an lms that can offer both of these options at the same time would be great! thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 30, 2018 at 8:29 pm hi aaron, you can try using memberpress a wordpress membership plugin which works well with learndash. this way you can have your subscription plans just the way you want them. reply lee stothers says: mar 25, 2018 at 4:35 pm i wonder whether some or all of the lms plugins have interactive capabilities for students hangouts/breakout groups, live question/answer sessions, webinars, etc.? reply shirley says: mar 16, 2018 at 5:28 am can other people upload courses to your lms, in other words not just products i want to sell but other educators, how do they login and create a course on the site? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2018 at 6:07 pm hi shirley, yes, you can allow other people to create courses in learndash. reply chris badgett says: mar 19, 2018 at 9:21 pm yes you can allow other people to create courses in lifterlms. you can even have multiple instructors on a course if you like. there is also an instructor’s assistant roll too. reply christian says: mar 7, 2018 at 3:03 am hi, i am looking for an wordpress lms plug-in. which one currently is the most advisable? thank you in advance. reply editorial staff says: mar 13, 2018 at 4:29 am we recommend using learndash. reply chris badgett says: mar 13, 2018 at 5:23 pm it depends. what are your business goals and which features are essential for your online learning platform? reply diane richards says: feb 12, 2018 at 5:10 pm would the astra theme work with learndash? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 13, 2018 at 3:04 pm hi diane, all standard compliant wordpress themes would work with learndash. reply will says: dec 28, 2017 at 6:15 am many thanks for the info. is it possible to also get courses to buy (to resell on installed lms) from any of the lms provider. do they offer a one- off payment option (if they sell?) reply chris badgett says: jan 2, 2018 at 6:08 pm hi will, lifterlms has a course import and export functionality so that courses can be transferred easily between lifterlms sites. also there is an add-on called lifterlms xapi for loading external (xapi type) courses which might even be hosted elsewhere. reply mike says: oct 22, 2017 at 6:45 pm i currently sell tangible dvd products through woocommerce. would like to offer these tangible dvd videos in an online viewing format, perhaps through a service like vimeo pro. would lifter lms be a good way to have online versions of my dvds? reply chris badgett says: jan 2, 2018 at 6:09 pm yes! you could make a “1 video lesson” course. or better yet break it up into more might sized chunks spread out across multiple lessons in a course. reply carol l says: jul 24, 2017 at 3:48 pm i need a security check point that will sporadically issue questions regarding your security during the lesson. reply holly mccaig says: jul 11, 2017 at 6:02 pm i am using lifterlms now and can verify it’s a great and easy to use tool. but my only complaint is that you can’t export your orders for accounting, nor can you export your student lists. there’s no real way to email them all unless you use one of the integrations. i use mailerlite and cannot get my students into my email list. i’d like to be able to send them emails or exclude them if i do special offers when they are enrolled the course i am offering. reply caryl dennis says: jun 30, 2017 at 2:00 pm can you integrate lifterlms into an existing website or does it need to be a stand alone website? thanks reply chris badgett says: jul 3, 2017 at 7:44 am hi caryl, yes! you can integrate lifterlms into an existing wordpress based website. lifterlms is a free wordpress plugin that you can install like any plugin. lifterlms also has other premium add-on plugins that you can add if you would like any of the additional benefits they offer. reply eduardo says: jun 6, 2017 at 2:48 pm hi there! i’ve been looking everywhere for a plugin that lets you sell courses but “in person” courses, they purchase and the info contains place and details about it. having this in mind, the teacher needs to have, let’s say at least 10 students, but only 6 bought it in time… is there some add-on somewhere to cancel the course and send back the money to the ones who bought it? thnaks in advance. regards. reply andre van berlo says: aug 10, 2017 at 11:38 am there is a plugin that is doing this: classes. it is an ithemes exchange addon and exchange is transitioning to a new owner. i have spoken with the new owner and he is currently seeing if there could be an integration of classes with learndash. but “classes” seems to be what you are looking for to me. refunds are usually done either via the shopping cart dashboard or via the payment processor of your choice (paypal, stripe, etc.). it is pretty straight forward. also, if classes doesn’t integrate eventually with learndash, you could still give access manually. reply david says: aug 18, 2018 at 9:11 am hi andre, could you give us the link to your wp plugin classes, i can t find it. david reply chris badgett says: apr 24, 2017 at 1:36 pm thank you for including lifterlms in your wordpress lms plugin evaluation wpbeginner! these are exciting times for education entrepreneurs looking to generate income by turning their expertise and life experience into impactful online courses. at lifterlms we are grateful for the growing wordpress lms community and the education entrepreneurs we serve. let’s build great learning experiences together! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 24, 2017 at 4:28 pm hey chris, thanks for stopping by. these are exciting times indeed. reply nergis says: mar 9, 2017 at 3:15 am thanks for this informative post, what about the best themes to use for a training website? what would be the best theme to use with learndash for example? reply sagar chauhan says: mar 8, 2017 at 6:00 am i just wanted to write really quick and thank wp beginner for included learndash on their list. reply gail palubiak says: mar 7, 2017 at 11:25 am good information but whoever wrote this needs to take a writing course. reply justin ferriman says: mar 7, 2017 at 11:17 am i just wanted to write really quick and and thank wpbeginner for included learndash on their list. it has been an absolute pleasure helping people and organizations get their online courses up-and-running. we are excited to continue serving our industry in exciting and innovative ways for years to come. if you’re an individual or organization looking to get the most out of online courses, then i invite you to check out learndash. we’d be happy to discuss your project! kindly, justin reply nergis says: mar 9, 2017 at 3:16 am what theme would you recommend to go along with learndash? reply justin ferriman says: mar 13, 2017 at 11:07 am learndash will work with most any modern wp theme. if you write-us from our contact page then we can get you a list of the more popular options. reply andre van berlo says: aug 10, 2017 at 11:40 am try some of the themes from web savvy, they’re built on genesis framework and look great. i think “fernando” and “derrick” (and another one) are all set up to integrate with ld. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.