skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us 6 best blogging platforms to make money (paid & free sites) lauren mcmanus updated: 12/13/19 • comments: 43 home » create and go blog » blogging basics » 6 best blogging platforms to make money (paid & free sites) disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin208 shares208 some blogging sites may feel better on your wallet, but many aren’t ideal if you plan to monetize your website. the best blogging platforms to make money are going to differ greatly from the free options. a comparison and a deeper understanding of the topic will help you choose the best blogging platform for you. as a beginner blogger, it’s very easy to get overwhelmed by the options that you have when you first start your blog. you need to set up all of the following: domain name, hosting, blogging platform, blog themes, etc., and you really need to have all of this decided before you take the first step. here is a basic overview of what we will cover in this comprehensive article: table of contents close open the 6 best blogging platforms (blog sites) for getting started other free blogging platforms we’ve added sections about monetizing in this article because the blogging platform and hosting that you choose can affect your ability to make money. it’s very important to begin with the end in mind when you start the process of choosing the best blogging platform. before we get into what the best blogging platforms are, let’s talk about what a blogging platform is and more specifically, how it differs from blog hosting (because you need both). what is a platform for blogging (also called a “blog site”)? well, let’s start with an understanding of the basics of how websites operate. all websites are composed of tons of lines of written code that work together to build the appearance of the website. when you build a website from scratch, you must manually write every single line of coding. thankfully, we have software that does this for you! a blogging platform serves as the “bones” or the foundation of your blog. it contains pre-coded templates that let you avoid the coding grunt work to get your blog online. blogging platforms don’t technically cost money because they all offer free hosting plans, but you must beware of using a free blog hosting. what is blog hosting? all blogs and websites must be hosted by a server to actually take your blog “online.” blog hosting companies contain tons of these servers and exist solely to make sure that your blog is online and people can access it. all blogging platforms offer a free hosting plan when you choose their platform, but most of them also offer paid packages too (called self-hosted plans). our #1 recommendation for blog hosting for beginners is bluehost. it’s what we used to take our two blogs to six figures in the first couple of years. so, why would i want to pay for blog hosting when i have a free option? in general, free blog hosting sites are better for people that want a hobby blog and have little desire to make an income. there are several limitations that come with free blog sites, including: ability to make money with ads ownership of your domain name access to plugins and other ways to customize your blog storage space access to premium themes and more… the biggest limitation with free blog hosting is how it affects your ability to monetize your site. the 6 best blogging platforms (blog sites) for getting started we’re going to go over the six largest and most popular blogging platforms and then follow it up with a couple of additional free blogging platforms. wordpress wordpress is the #1 most widely used blogging platform in the world! there are two versions of wordpress: wordpress.com (free) and wordpress.org (paid). the free version comes with the same limitations that we described above, so the rest of this section will be about wordpress.org (the self-hosted, paid version) that comes with access to a lot more features. by far the best part about wordpress.org is that you get access to thousands of plugins that allow you to customize your blog in a variety of ways, including adding contact forms, email forms, social media buttons, and so much more. other blogging platforms are not as widely used, so they have fewer plugins, themes, and other customizations to choose from. let’s look at the practical side of that. when you’re trying to install social media buttons or some other feature on your blog and you google how to do this, the articles on the first few pages of your search will all be for wordpress plugins – not relating to wix, squarespace, or any of the other blogging sites that we will discuss. pros: more control over your blog design access to thousands of plugins and themes to customize your blog great customer support plus tons of articles written on using the platform easier to integrate with most other software as you grow your blog cons: a little bit more of a learning curve compared to some other blogging platforms you need to handle your security and backups price: as low as $2.75/month but varies depending on which blog host that you use to host your wordpress blog bottom line: you will have far more blogging tools to choose from if you choose wordpress. wordpress offers the best price for the most customizations, including themes, plugins and other software integrations. our recommendation: pair wordpress.org with a great hosting plan like bluehost. you can sign up for bluehost for as low as $2.75/month (through our discounted link) and install wordpress on your site in just one click! your bluehost plan also comes with a free domain name as well! wix wix is probably best known for its drag-and-drop software. this makes it incredibly user-friendly with a much smaller learning curve. there is a free version as well, but it is even more limited than the free version of wordpress. there are very few customizations offered on the free version and you are stuck with wix ads on your site. the paid version is really the only way to go if you are looking to make money. pros: easy-to-use drag-and-drop software makes it incredibly beginner-friendly less of a learning curve when building your site cons: far fewer options for themes and third-party plugins plans are less flexible due to lack of hosting options costs extra if you want to build an ecommerce store on your site free version is very limited and includes wix ads on your site far fewer software integrations than wordpress price: $11/month and up, depending on what hosting plan you choose bottom line: wix is easier to use than wordpress, but it’s quite a bit more expensive for a paid plan and ultimately more limited as far as customizations available. it’s much easier to get started and design your blog on wix, but you will ultimately hit roadblocks in your growth due to the limitations of plugins and other software integrations. squarespace you’ve probably heard a lot more about squarespace lately because of how much they have ramped up their advertising. i know i see it all over facebook and youtube. as of right now, keanu reeves, aka most likeable guy ever, is their spokesperson. what a power move! squarespace, similar to wix, also has a drag-and-drop software, making their user interface great for beginners with no prior website design or coding knowledge. pros: beginner-friendly, drag-and-drop software great for small businesses cons: far fewer options for themes and third-party plugins plans are less flexible and more expensive to add ecommerce stores and other add-ons far fewer software integrations than wordpress significantly more expensive than the previous options discussed pricing: starting at $12/month bottom line: this is a great option for those that are less tech-savvy, but you will still find yourself with limitations and fewer options down the road when you are looking to grow your blog and monetize it. squarespace is ideal for small brick and mortar businesses looking for an online presence but not for full-time bloggers looking to run their entire business online. weebly weebly is yet another drag-and-drop website building, although it’s lesser-known than wix and squarespace and has fewer options. pros: beginner-friendly, drag-and-drop software cons: very few software integrations available significantly more expensive pricing: starting at $8/month for a very limited plan bottom line: if you are going to go the route of the drag-and-drop software, go with wix instead. it provides more options and customizations and much more bang for your buck. other free blogging platforms the free blogging platforms described below are all going to have the same limitations that other free blogging sites have, but we still felt that they were worth mentioning and comparing in this article. blogger blogger is actually owned by google, so it’s one of the only free blogging platforms that you can install google adsense on and earn ad revenue. you also get access to google analytics to track stats on your site. unfortunately, you will still run into the same problems of limited access to third-party software and plugins. blogger also isn’t updated very often, so the software that is available can sometimes be outdated and less reliable. aside from the ability to earn ad revenue, it is still much harder to monetize your site with blogger. there are no paid hosting options and you also can’t have your own domain name (your blog name will have “.blogspot.com” in the url). tumblr tumblr is a great place to network with other bloggers and content is shared regularly in the form of “re-posting.” this adds an additional way to get exposure to your content that other platforms don’t have because it is somewhat of a “social” media platform itself. that being said, the design capabilities are extremely limited on tumblr. you are limited to a set of themes or templates to choose from. the design and software limitations of tumblr make it much more difficult to monetize. one upside of tumblr compared to blogger is that you can purchase your own domain name to use with your site. medium medium is a much different blogging platform from the other options that we have described so far because it is actually a community of writers and bloggers. while medium is easy to get started and set up a basic web page, it’s not ideal for those looking to build an online business. medium is more of a place to write, have your thoughts heard, and connect with others. you cannot put ads on your site and you don’t own your audience. on a traditional blogging platform, you drive traffic to your blog, own your social media accounts, and can build an email list. with medium, you don’t own any of these sources of traffic and do not have the usual list-building tools available to you. summary to summarize our above comparison of the best blogging platforms… wordpress.org + a paid hosting plan (like bluehost) is the only way to go if you are serious about starting an online blogging business and growing it quickly. we recommend bluehost as your hosting provider because they have incredible 24/7 service and one of the best reputations as far as hosting providers go. it’s also what we have used for 2+ years now. wordpress.org is free with a bluehost plan, and your plan also comes with a free domain name. this blogging platform and blog hosting plan will give you access to thousands of themes, plugins, and other software integrations to customize your blog as well as allow you to monetize exactly how you want it to. if you don’t start out with wordpress, we can guarantee that you will be switching over to them somewhere down the road anyway. here are some other relevant articles for your blogging journey: choose a blog niche select a good domain name if you enjoyed this article on the best blogging platforms or have any questions for us, please feel free to leave them in the comment section below! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin208 shares208 about lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. read this next how to start a blog in 2020 – best guide for beginners (7 easy steps) open this window to get started with bluehost now.start with bluehost nowstart now are you looking for a simple, step-by-step guide to how to start a blog and actually make money from it!? our free guide on this page will show you how to create a blog that is beautiful and functional, all in an easy step-by-step […] keep reading > similar articles blogging basics how to come up with a great blog name in 30 minutes! how much does it really cost to start a blog? (2020 update) 10 popular and profitable blog niches that still work in 2020 how much do bloggers make? like, really? [2020 edition] see all blog posts 43 leave a reply 23 comment threads 20 thread replies 0 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 27 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest praveen singh nice post, i also subscribe to your blog list. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago admin alex and lauren thanks! happy to have you here 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago guest mahendra kumar i’m joining to your free course you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago admin alex and lauren awesome! let us know what you think 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago guest mary thanks for the helpful tips, lauren. i am also a traveling blogger but have done so predominantly for family and friends; now i’m interested in making money with it. i look forward to joining the 5 day blogging bootcamp! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago admin alex and lauren hey mary! we look forward to having you 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago guest canonprinterhelp thanks for sharing the list, it’s probably gonna help a lot of seos and newbies to get some do follow backlinks for their domains. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren hey there! yes, backlinks are a great way to increase your domain authority for seo. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest supportfornorton thank you for sharing information about blog commenting sites. i was searching for sites for blog commenting, then i found your website. it such very helpful for me. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren happy to help! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest oudel thanks for sharing such beautiful information with us. i hope you will share some more info about web hosting . you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks! glad you enjoyed the information 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest kuldeep singh very helpful information, thanks to share with us. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks for taking the time to read it 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest technorton i really need this post shared good thank you. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest maria super helpful article! you mentioned that with wordpress i would still need to provide backup and security. is this something that bluehost would take care of or separate services and software i would need to look into. thanks! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago admin alex and lauren we recommend a few plugins to meet those needs. for spam, we recommend the anti-spam plugin. you can start with the free version, and upgrade to pro if spam continues to be a huge problem. some hosting companies perform backups for you but you are generally limited for space and can’t rely 100% on these ‘routine’ backups. updraftplus is a plugin that automatically performs backups of your website and you choose where to store the backup. and finally, wordfence security is a security plugin that includes a firewall and malware scanner to protect your wordpress blog from external threats. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago guest loren very complete guide for wordpress theme. i am impressed reading this article and will try to practice on my blog. thanks for useful and meaningful articles for me.. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago admin alex and lauren awesome! happy to hear you found it useful 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago guest smart sniper vary good post… you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago guest rechal john i have been reading a lot of articles about making money online and this is really simple and helpful for the people who want to make money online. great !! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago guest birjupaswan yes you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago guest فروشگاه اينترنتی keep up the good work and love your page & thank you! goodluck you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago admin alex and lauren thank you! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago guest jiten patil hello, good information about different blogging platforms. i liked the way of explaining step by step all the things about blogging thanks for nice information. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago admin alex and lauren you’re welcome 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago guest irene love your page and advice, so thank you! is there a way to eventually make money blogging with wordpress? ,im looking to start out with them , but i was just curious. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago admin alex and lauren you can make money with wordpress .org, but it’s very difficult to monetize with .com. hope this helps! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago guest julie sheldon loved this post. i can’t seem to figure out how to sign up for the 7 day course though. i’ve entered my email but still haven’t received anything. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey, julie! it looks like you already signed up for the free course in june of last year, so that’s why it isn’t letting you sign up again. i just manually removed you and re-added you to the free course, so you should start receiving the emails! -lauren you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest fonya wonderful!!!! what is the exact cost of starting a blog (annually) you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey, fonya! we have an entire article on the expected costs of blogging that you might find helpful called “how much does it really cost to start a blog? first 3 months and beyond”. we go into detail in the article, but we estimate the total costs to start a blog (in the first 1-3 months) to be about $267 up front, and $29/month after that. there are free options along the way that can reduce your initial cost, but using those options can make it much harder to monetize your blog. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest aunne i really enjoy this article and it has give me more information and very clear yo the point information in one go you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest sahil hey, alex and lauren first of all i really loved your blog. i just want to know that which theme is the best theme for wordpress which will fit in my budget (my budget $20 – $80). thank you! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey there! we actually have our theme recommendations outlined in our article called “4 best wordpress blog themes for beginners (both free and paid)”. our top two paid theme recommendations are divi and avada themes. if you want to start with a free theme, flash theme and girly theme are good options. our article mentioned above goes into more detail and a few more options. we do recommend choosing a paid theme over a free theme if you’re able to. hope this helps! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest anika hi alex and lauren! first of all, let me just say how happy i am to have found your blog! can you just explain to me the difference between using bluehost vs. wordpress basic, premium or business? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey anika, they are just two different hosting companies. we personally prefer bluehost because it is by far the best and most reliable service we have used (and somehow also the most affordable). it’s easy to use and set up and the customer support is great! it also comes with a free domain name, which is a great perk! we also outline the differences between the free wordpress hosting and paid in our article titled “wordpress.com and wordpress.org for blogs (free vs. self-hosted)”. basically, wordpress.org has a lot more features that make it significantly easier to monetize your blog. we… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest kassi when talking about word press you talk about the cons. in that you say you have to handle your security and backups. is it not safe to use for begginers or will it make since once you start using it? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren i’m not quite sure what you are asking, kassi. but we recommend the wordfence plugin to help with security on your blog. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest sara really enjoyed reading your thorough study on different types of blogs. much appreciated you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren thank you, sara! glad you found it helpful! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents the 6 best blogging platforms/blog sites for getting started other free blogging platforms footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz