home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us uncategorized 6 email marketing trends that make it a must-use... uncategorized 6 email marketing trends that make it a must-use marketing strategy by shashank jain - march 5, 2020 125 0 - advertisment - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp if you are not using email marketing to promote your brand, products or services, you are missing out on a big opportunity. seo is great and so is ppc, but that doesn’t mean that you can live in a universe without the ages-old marketing strategy known as email marketing. you may have created a custom email address for your business. but it is effective only as long as your target audience is constantly receiving messages from you. such an email address offers many advantages over a generic email account based on commonly used webmail services like gmail or yahoo mail. it translates into more trust with your customers, makes your business look more professional, and enhances your brand image. a business email address, when combined with email marketing campaigns enhances the overall effectiveness at many levels. you can create your custom email address by choosing a premium plan. this will allow you to create as many mailboxes as you need. even when the term ‘email marketing’ doesn’t create the same kind of buzz as social media or seo can create, it has continued to deliver great results for digital marketers every year since its inception. it doesn’t require the buzz because real-world statistics associated with it speak volumes in its favor. email marketing has an average roi of 122%. this is even 4 times higher compared to another digital marketing method. email marketing is almost 40 times better than social media sites for helping brands get new customers. this marketing strategy has been so effective consistently that a crucial fact is usually ignored. it continues to evolve and keeps getting new updates. so what are the latest trends and updates in the email marketing ecosystem? find out here. 1. interactive emails traditionally, all you had to do was to use a business name generator, create a website, build an email list, and start sending messages to your target audience. it is no longer that simple. it is no longer websites that excel in providing a more interactive environment to visitors. more and more digital marketers are looking for ways to make their emails interactive. there are different ways in which interactivity can help in the email domain: it becomes easier for users to place orders quickly marketers are better able to gather higher-quality data the purchase pipeline becomes shorter interactive emails also make many tasks possible and simpler for recipients. recipients should be able to customize their orders. they can add more items to their cart and enjoy a better ux. and all this can be done without being redirected from the email message. when data is brought from email to website, it helps improve user experience. the benefits get even more enhanced in the scope of new technologies such as chatbots. this results in further increasing the overall level of interactivity. 2. increasing importance of design there is an increased emphasis on developing better designs for email copies. companies now realize that both words and visuals are important in running effective email campaigns. this has increased the emphasis on design elements like: illustrations icons button colors fonts the email was once a purely text-based medium. traditionally, digital marketers have given some importance to elements like images and headers, but most of the effort has had been directed at developing great copy. that has changed recently and marketers now find more user engagement with their design efforts. 3. chatbots chatbots have been able to provide unobtrusive and high-quality conversations between brands and email recipients. the technology has been around for some time, but it is recently that it has found its way into emails. when used right, this technology can bring significant value to both brands and users. digital marketers can use user data to provide a better experience. from the perspective of the user, they can have a personal agent at their disposal. it is expected that the technology will continue to grow in the near future. at the same time, it is important to realize that when it is not done right chatbots can cause annoyance to customers. 4. advanced personalization personalization may have been here for some time, but the new emphasis is on taking it to the next level. it goes beyond the scope of simply customizing the subject lines. there is an increased focus on segmenting lists. list segmentation has been there for some time, but it can help enhance personalization by allowing you to place users into lists according to factors like interests, demographics, and other data. this allows you to send information based on relevance, which helps increase the chances that your emails will get opened. it also increases the chances of engagement. 5. mobile-first according to reports, more than 55% of emails are now opened on mobile devices. it is expected that this share will continue to increase. the shift from desktop to smartphones has been the driving force behind this trend. there is a greater emphasis on ‘mobile-first’ in the email marketing domain. it is expected to be a big player in all decisions taken by digital marketers in the near future. the length of the email messages, the design, the display method, and many other factors are going to be determined by this. 6. influence of artificial intelligence artificial intelligence (ai) is playing a bigger role in making email marketing platforms more and more sophisticated. some of the ways technology can help marketers include: more effective content development optimizing send times and frequency predicting audience actins ai continues to evolve at a fast pace. it is expected that more applications will evolve for marketers. besides, the technology is expected to simplify the measurement and comprehension of a wide range of metrics. it can make it easier to understand how users interact with email content, especially in ways that were not yet possible for marketers to comprehend on their own. so these are some of the most important trends revolutionizing email marketing at the time. this digital marketing strategy continues to evolve and become more effective with time. so it is best to include it into your overall marketing plan. - advertisement - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp previous articlecan you really make money on instagram? next articleapple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? shashank jain shashank jain, founder of iphone-s, a young and energetic entrepreneur has always been fond of technology. his liking for technology made him go for engineering in computers. during his studies, he learned & worked on different computer languages & os including hbcd, linux, etc. he also has a keen interest in ethical hacking. leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. must read chatroulette apps for android & ios anshi - modified date: march 19, 2020 0 full guide on satisfactory save game location anshi - modified date: march 18, 2020 0 how to use cxbx emulator – way to play on cxbx ashish lavania - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 how cryptocurrency works: a complete guide by hedgespots anshi - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? shashank jain - modified date: march 7, 2020 0 - advertisement - sponsored postshashank jain - march 7, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? it’s perfectly normal to think that apple doesn’t make mistakes when it comes to technology. however, they do. when first... read more uncategorizedshashank jain - march 5, 2020 0 6 email marketing trends that make it a must-use marketing strategy if you are not using email marketing to promote your brand, products or services, you are missing out on... read more must read uncategorizedshashank jain - october 17, 2019 0 what are the two main components on the motherboard? do you know the most important part of your... read more how to guideshashank jain - june 3, 2018 1 netflix mod apk download premium netflix (one of the top developers on google play... read more trending tech 8 amazing yoga and meditation apps for iphone users shashank jain - december 13, 2017 0 top 4 pocket wod free app for ipad/ iphone – crossfit app shashank jain - january 7, 2017 0 top 6 nature & wildlife mobile apps shashank jain - november 20, 2016 0 - advertisement - you might also likerelated recommended to you uncategorized the advancement of technology through the years: smartphones think about the launch of a product, any product.... shashank jain - february 17, 2020 0 read more uncategorized top 5 best scheduling apps for for better time management on iphone today, in this fast-moving world, more and more people... shashank jain - february 4, 2020 0 read more uncategorized best iphone storage cleaning apps for 2020 there is nothing in the world more frustrating than... shashank jain - january 30, 2020 0 read more uncategorized how to keep track of self employment expense and income if you're self-employed but new to self employment, then... shashank jain - january 4, 2020 0 read more © copyright 2018 - iphone-s.com factspress