wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » 6 important reasons why you should use wordpress for your website 6 important reasons why you should use wordpress for your website last updated on february 14th, 2019 by editorial staff 2.4k shares share tweet share pin one of the questions that we often get asked is: why should i use wordpress? isn’t my old site good enough? why do i need to switch to wordpress from another platform? if you’re asking these questions, then you’re at the right place. in this article, we will share 6 important reasons why you should use wordpress. we will also cover all the different type of websites you can create with wordpress as well as showcase popular sites that are using wordpress. note: throughout this article, when we say wordpress, we are talking about wordpress.org also known as self-hosted wordpress. please do not confuse this with wordpress.com which is a hosting service. for details, see our comparison of wordpress.org vs wordpress.com. one of the most common misconception about wordpress is that it is just a blogging platform. it is not. while wordpress started as a blogging tool, it has evolved throughout the years into a powerful website builder and a robust content management system (cms). the best part about wordpress is that it’s easy to use and flexible enough to make different types of websites. that’s the main reason why wordpress has grown so much in popularity. according to a recent survey, wordpress powers 32.3% of all websites on the internet. due to it’s robust features, many of the top brands use wordpress to power their websites including time magazine, facebook, the new yorker, sony, disney, target, the new york times, and more. let’s take a look at why you should use wordpress to make your website. 1. wordpress is free as in freedom wordpress is a free software. it means you are free to download, install, use and modify it to match your needs. you can use it to create any kind of website. to learn more, see our article about why is wordpress free?. while the wordpress software itself is free, you need a domain name and web hosting to install it. a domain name is the address of your website on the internet. this is what your users type in their browser’s address bar to access your website (for example, wpbeginner.com). web hosting is your website’s house where all your website files are stored. we recommend using bluehost. they are one of the largest hosting companies in the world and an officially recommended wordpress hosting provider. they are also offering wpbeginner users a 60% discount on hosting and a free domain name. basically, you can get started for $2.75 per month. → click here to claim this exclusive bluehost offer ← need more hosting recommendations? see our pick of the best wordpress hosting providers. if you want someone experienced to setup your wordpress site, then our talented staff members are happy to help you get started. the best part is that we offer a free wordpress blog setup service. you can also do it yourself by following our step by step guide on how to install wordpress. if you run into any issues with wordpress, simply type your question in google and add wpbeginner at the end of your question. you will likely find the answer on our website. 2. wordpress is easy to customize with themes and plugins a large portion of people using wordpress are neither web designers nor programmers. as a matter of fact, most folks start using wordpress without any prior knowledge of designing websites. for non-tech savvy folks, wordpress is the perfect solution because there are thousands of free website templates (themes) that you can choose from. there is a perfect wordpress theme for just about every kind of website (whether it’s a blog, business site, or an online store). wordpress themes are easy to customize because a lot of them come with their own options panel allowing you to change colors, upload logo, change the background, create beautiful sliders, and truly customize it to your needs without writing any code at all. you can also add custom functionality to your wordpress site by using plugins. wordpress plugins are like apps for your website that you can use to add advanced features like analytics, contact forms, membership area, and more. just like themes, there are thousands of free and premium plugins available for you to use. to learn more, see our article on what are wordpress plugins and how do they work. aside from adding extra functionality, some wordpress plugins can let you transform your website into a completely new platform. take a look at our expert pick of essential wordpress plugins for every website. 3. wordpress is seo friendly wordpress is written using standard compliance high-quality code and produces semantic markup. in non-geek terms, this makes google and other search engines love wordpress. this is why wordpress sites tend to rank higher than others in search engines. by design, wordpress is very seo friendly out of the box. you can also use wordpress seo plugins to further optimize your website. for complete step by step instructions, see our ultimate wordpress seo guide to properly optimize your website. 4. wordpress is easy to manage wordpress comes with a built-in updates management system. this allows you to update your plugins and themes from within your wordpress admin dashboard. wordpress also notifies you when there is a new version of wordpress available, so you can update your site by simply clicking a button. to protect your data from any accident or hacking, you can easily use a wordpress backup plugin to automatically create backups and store them safely on a remote location. you can also manage your wordpress site on the go with wordpress mobile apps. 5. wordpress is safe and secure wordpress is developed with security in mind, and it is considered to be a very safe and secure platform to run a website. however, just like the real world, the internet can be an uncertain place. there are intruders out there who want to get their hands on as many sites as they could. to protect your wordpress site, there are a few simple things that you can do to make it even more secure. for details, see our step-by-step wordpress security guide for beginners. we use sucuri on our websites to protect against common threats such as brute force attacks and malware. 6. wordpress can handle different media types wordpress is not just limited to writing text. it comes with a built-in media uploader to handle images, audio, and video files. wordpress supports oembed enabled websites which means you can embed youtube videos, instagram photos, tweets, and soundcloud audio by just pasting the url in the wordpress post editor. what ways to use wordpress? wordpress can be used in many different ways from simple websites to ecommerce marketplaces and anything in between. following are just a few examples of different kind of websites you can make with wordpress. start a blog make a business website start an online store build a membership website sell online courses see our full list of 19 different types of websites you can make using wordpress. we hope this article answered your question about why you should use wordpress. the best way to truly experience the power of wordpress is by using it. give it a try, and let us know what you think. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 25 commentsleave a reply william rojas says: jan 2, 2020 at 7:02 am yes, i have worked on many client websites based on wordpress and i agree that this is the best platform. great information! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 2, 2020 at 10:24 am thank you, glad you agree with our opinion reply vicki rogers says: aug 1, 2019 at 3:08 pm what programs do you recommend for wordpress training? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 2, 2019 at 10:02 am for learning, you may want to try a local installation of wordpress: https://www.wpbeginner.com/how-to-install-wordpress/#installlocal reply preeti says: jul 29, 2019 at 5:26 am i have downloaded the zip files from wordpress.org can u help to install it in my sysstem reply wpbeginner support says: jul 29, 2019 at 11:52 am it would depend on what you’re specifically trying to set it up on, you may want to take a look at our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/how-to-install-wordpress/ reply eric says: jul 14, 2019 at 12:49 pm if i wanted to make a simple blog just as a hobby, for free, could i do that on wordpress? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 15, 2019 at 11:28 am for that, you would want to take a look at wordpress.com reply james says: jul 4, 2019 at 5:55 pm can i create website like imdb on wordpress reply wpbeginner support says: jul 5, 2019 at 4:05 pm it would take some work but you could certainly create a site like imdb reply سئو یوزر says: jun 4, 2019 at 12:25 pm because : 1. save money 2. save time 3.latest update 4.a great variety in themes and plugins ……. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 5, 2019 at 10:10 am thanks for adding your list of reasons reply anusha says: may 30, 2019 at 5:27 pm can i do affiliate marketing through my blogs on wordpress.com? are there any restrictions on wordpress.com on adding affiliate links in the blog? reply wpbeginner support says: may 31, 2019 at 10:21 am you would want to check with wordpress.com’s support for their current stance on affiliate marketing and restrictions. reply yogesh says: may 26, 2019 at 1:33 pm i already have e-commerce website….is there any way i can link that to wordpress?? reply wpbeginner support says: may 28, 2019 at 2:28 pm it would depend on what your site was built with and what kind of connection you’re looking for reply ziru hamu says: may 23, 2019 at 1:00 pm amazing content, thanks for this reply wpbeginner support says: may 24, 2019 at 9:42 am you’re welcome reply gopal says: may 2, 2019 at 10:52 am hi i want to make website by wordpress.org and it’s for education means it has money transition system,subscriptions,courses selling and purchasing so it is secure and safe to use wordpress.org or not .please answer reply wpbeginner support says: may 3, 2019 at 10:20 am you can certainly create a site like that on wordpress, you would normally want to use an lms plugin to create that: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/best-wordpress-lms-plugins-compared/ reply louise rachael says: dec 12, 2018 at 6:10 am i am finding it difficult to use word press, i want to add images, but there is not an option to move them, around the page, so i have to do the long way of putting the image into photoshop to crop and get the ideal image i want. please can you make it easier to move images around on the blog? reply jalu kaba says: may 5, 2019 at 4:37 pm you can do it easy with page builder like origin, beaver, guttenberg, etc. reply sam says: nov 20, 2018 at 7:49 am thank you very much for sharing this informative write-up. there is very much to learn from the blog. this is really very useful. reply tabish says: nov 14, 2018 at 10:18 am hi! i am using cloudflare on my website. i wanted to ask that i don’t get e-mails from wordpress, and even if i do, there is some “cloudflare” modification to the address. could you help with that? i don’t want subscribers to notice that. reply wpbeginner support says: nov 22, 2018 at 8:12 am hey tabish, please see our guide on how to fix wordpress not sending email issue. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.