start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events search start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events join our facebook community start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events search 6 resources to make your blog successful if you’re looking for resources to take your blog to help you create a successful blog – you’re in the right place. in addition to the daily blog tips that problogger has provided since 2004 we have also produced six great downloadable resources to help your blog reach its potential. 31 days to build a better blog if you have big dreams for your blog but have been putting improving it in the ‘one day’ basket – you’re not alone. 31 days to build a better blog is a downloadable e-book designed to help you revitalize your blog by giving you 31 tasks that will all help to turn it into the page view powerhouse you’ve always dreamed of. each day in the project contains: a task – something to do that day. teaching – each day you’ll be given great instruction on both the why and how of the task of the day. 31 days to build a better blog has been downloaded by many thousands of bloggers and has been recently updated into a 2nd edition for 2012 – discover more about this best selling ebook here. problogger’s guide to your first week of blogging this new ebook is all about helping bloggers who are in the first weeks of their blogging to get started on the right foot. bloggers starting out quickly discover that there’s a lot more to this medium than just setting up a blog and quickly slapping up a post or two. your first post is just the beginning and you’re then faced with the tasks of finding readers, coming up with more post ideas and thinking about the long term strategy of your blog. this ebook is jam packed with practical activities and exercises to do in your first week to make sure your blog is heading in the right direction. broken down into 7 days there are actually a total of 32 achievable tasks that will not only get your blog going but that will help you develop the skills you need to achieve your potential as a blogger. learn more about this exciting new resource at problogger’s guide to your first week of blogging. problogger’s guide to blogging for your business this ebook was written for two groups of people: business owners who wanted to harness the power of blogging to grow their business those working for businesses who’ve been given the task of blogging – but who don’t know where to start written by mark hayward – a successful business owner, activist, and blogging coach – the guide takes readers step by step through how to set up a blog, thinking through goals for a blog, developing a content strategy, finding readers and growing traffic, establishing and growing a social media footprint and much more. practical tasks at the end of each of the 12 chapters let you implement mark’s mentoring in a way that suits your business, and your customers. learn more about problogger’s guide to blogging for your business. blog wise: how to do more with less if you have a blog and understand the basics but are struggling to find time, motivation or focus – blog wise is for you. one of the most common obstacles to successful blogging among our readers is simply finding time – so we sat down with 9 prolific and successful bloggers to find out how they not only blog successfully – but balance that with busy work, family and social lives. bloggers interviewed include heather armstrong from dooce, brian clark from copyblogger, abby larson from style me pretty, leo babauta from zen habits, gretchen rubin from the happiness project, darren rowse from problogger and digital photography school – and more. these bloggers juggle a lot – but they get things done and will give you insight into what it takes to run a successful blog but also how to use your time effectively. learn more about this powerful ebook here. copywriting scorecard for bloggers this ebook is designed to help you take the content featured on your blog up a notch. your blog posts are the cornerstone of your blog and will be the difference between you reaching your goals or not. this scorecard resource is designed to help you analyze the most important elements of your content to make sure they’re engaging, readable, professional and optimized for search engines. it’s the ideal resource for all bloggers who are just starting out and want to learn the basics of seo or those who’ve been at it a while but want to grow their search engine traffic. discover more about the copywriting scorecard for bloggers. the blogger’s guide to online marketing this kit is all about helping you to turn your blog into a business. the blogger’s guide to online marketing—31 steps to a profitable blog is a comprehensive, 31 chapter blueprint for your blog’s ongoing profitability – right from the ground up. the kit’s ebook is backed by an extensive library of practical templates, printable worksheets, and in-practice example documents, this kit delivers all you need to make your blog turn a profit now and over the long term. this kit was developed by experienced online marketer – shayne tilley (the web marketing ninja) – the guy who does marketing on problogger products and those at darren’s other blog – digital photography school. discover more about the blogger’s guide to online marketing. get the full library at with a 47% discount if you prefer to grab the full problogger library it is available today for $109, a 47% discount off the normal price of $200. every week we'll send you blogging advice, tips and in-depth tutorials join our community of 300,000+ bloggers! name name website subscribe recently at the job board email marketer - reach a big audience and make a positive impact expert tech blog writer finance or seo specialist writer wanted fitness & lifestyle bloggers wanted! [european] content writer for adult toy website problogger top articles how to start a blog how to create great blog content how to find readers for your blog 7 strategies to build community on your blog how to make money blogging 5 ways to make your blogging life easier top resources 31 days to build a better blog problogger’s guide to your first week of blogging problogger’s guide to blogging for your business blog wise: how to do more with less the blogger’s guide to online marketing recommended blogging resources about blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses speaking privacy terms contact copyright © 2020 problogger.com · all rights reserved