english 日本語 deutsch english español português français contact sales log in get hubspot free home software software free hubspot crm all your contacts and companies, 100% free. marketing hub all-in-one marketing software, starting at $0/month. sales hub all-in-one sales software, starting at $0/month. service hub all-in-one customer service software, starting at $0/month. app marketplace find hubspot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business. pricing resources resources blog read marketing, sales, agency, and customer success blog content. customer stories hear from the businesses that use hubspot to grow better every day. developers create apps and custom integrations for businesses using hubspot. ebooks, guides & more get access to hubspot’s most popular marketing resources. onboarding & services find training and consulting services to help you thrive with hubspot. research & reports get up-to-date research and data on hot business trends. free courses & certifications take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts. what is inbound? get a primer on how inbound helps your business grow better. customer support get help if you have questions about using hubspot software. partners partners hire a partner find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow. partner with us explore our sales, agency, and app partnership programs. about about company about us contact us management team board of directors careers news hubspot news press resources speakers investors investor relations get hubspot free log in marketing sales service website subscribe subscribe to our blog stay up to date with the latest marketing, sales, and service tips and news. subscribe via email subscribe on slack subscribe via email marketing sales service website email address we're committed to your privacy. hubspot uses the information you provide to us to contact you about our relevant content, products, and services. you may unsubscribe from these communications at any time. for more information, check out our privacy policy. back to other options thank you! you have been subscribed. get hubspot free marketing | 9 min read 6 social media calendars, tools, & templates to plan your content written by sophia bernazzani @soph_bern hubspot also recommends this free social media calendar template.get the template what do cross-country road trips, wedding speeches, and social media marketing have in common? you could improvise all three, but it's better to have a plan for what direction you're heading -- especially when developing your social media content strategy. by now, most marketers recognize that social media plays an integral role in an effective inbound marketing strategy. and with so many social networks to manage and publish on, it's important to stay organized and have a plan for when and what you're going to share on these platforms. in this post, we've rounded up some of the most helpful tools and templates for building out an effective social media content plan. check them out below. the benefits of using a social media content calendar we're all busy. and when we're busy without a plan in place for the tasks we have to get done, things inevitably slip through the cracks. social media content is no exception. just like with blogging, a successful social media strategy requires regular publishing and engaging with followers to see positive results -- whether that be in terms of seo, brand recognition, lead generation, or all three. so, if you're not already using a social media content calendar, hear me out: calendars help you get organized to avoid the dreaded scramble when things come up. with a social media calendar, marketers can plan out posts for entire weeks or months in advance, which frees up working hours to strategize for the future -- and to dash off any posts about breaking news in your industry. otherwise, you'll spend valuable time each day searching the internet for that day's content to share, which is a known productivity killer. a calendar helps you plan for each social network to customize posts instead of spamming all platforms with the same message. social media marketers should take the time to craft custom messages for each network, and doing this in advance will save time throughout the week and ensure you're being thoughtful and intentional when you do post. calendars can help you track performance and plan for future posts. without a calendar, social media marketers are publishing content into the void and are unable to track big-picture and past performance. with a calendar, marketers can look back and analyze which content performed best so they can adjust their strategy accordingly. with the help of a calendar, marketers can plan for holidays and observance days, such as national cat day, when they can tailor their content and engage with a wider audience. social media calendars improve efficiency. according to content marketing institute, 72% of b2b marketers attribute the success (which has increased annually) of their content to the development of a formal content strategy. now that you understand the merits of having a social media content calendar in place, check out our list of top tools to stay organized and on top of your game. 4 social media content calendar tools to plan your messaging 1. trello trello is another organizational tool that's highly effective for team collaboration. more specifically, social media managers can use trello's flexible assignment “cards” and customizable “boards” and “lists” to map out to-do lists, manage a content calendar, plan a campaign, and house ideas from a brainstorm. here's an example of a trello board a social media marketing team might use to plan posts for the upcoming week: but you're not limited to just one structure: users can customize boards according to their needs. for example, a team could create a board to organize social media posts for a given week, on a specific platform, or post ideas around a topic, such as a campaign or awareness day. trello cards allow for a ton of customization as well. here's a fictitious social media editorial calendar card with twitter copy options around a piece of blog content. note that you can track progress toward completing a checklist, which could be useful for social media marketers looking to track campaign progress. additionally, trello cards can be assigned to different team members, marked with due dates, and commented on. users can even customize the labels (as in the image below) with different publication statuses so the entire team can see the progress of their social media posts and when they're due on the calendar. the labels could also indicate different social networks that content is being published on. source: blueglass trello also offers a full calendar view (shown below) which makes it easy to visualize what content is going out, and when. source: blueglass 2. microsoft excel marketers might already use excel for different types of reports and data analysis in their roles, but it's a highly useful tool for social media content calendar organization, too. excel can be customized according to whatever priorities or metrics a team is focused on, so it's a great tool for planning ahead. the good news? we've already done the heavy lifting for you by creating a free, downloadable social media content calendar template using microsoft excel. marketers can use this template to easily plan out individual social media posts -- monthly or annually -- while keeping an eye on bigger picture events, holidays, publications, and partnerships. for more on how to use the templates, check out this in-depth guide from my colleague lindsay kolowich. use the monthly planning calendar tab above to get a bird's-eye view of what's coming down their content pipeline in a given month. in the content repository tab, users can record the content they're publishing on this tab to keep track of which pieces have been promoted and to easily recall older content that can be re-promoted on social media. on the social network update tabs, users can draft and plan out social media posts in advance. these tabs are for organizational purposes, and the content of the posts themselves must be uploaded into a social media publisher. this free resource can be used to draft social media posts, or it can be bulk-uploaded into a publishing app to maximize efficiency. (hubspot customers: you can use this spreadsheet to organize content and upload it directly into social inbox. for instructions on how to do so, check out the template's cover sheet here.) 3. evernote evernote is a note-taking app that marketers can use to keep track of all the moving parts that comprise a social media campaign. the tool also features yearly, monthly, weekly, and hourly logs, which make it easy to keep track of when you're publishing content on social media, when you're producing blog content, and other team-wide priorities. (evernote offers customizable templates for each of these that can be downloaded into the app.) another useful feature? evernote's web clipper extension for chrome. marketers can use this tool to easily save links to their evernote notebook for sharing later on. the evernote mobile app also boasts some interesting features to help marketers keep their social content ideas straight. for example, you can easily snap a photo and save it to your evernote files for review later. source: evernote this feature is of particular valuable for social content creators looking to maintain a backlog of photos to publish on instagram. 4. google drive google drive has several helpful features that make it easy for social media marketers to build out an effective content calendar. here's an example of how a team might use google calendar to track both their editorial and social media calendars to make sure they're aligning posts with new blog content. these calendars can be easily shared with multiple teams to avoid scheduling conflicts and ensure that campaigns are aligned. marketers can also use shared google sheets to schedule posts on social media, track the status of different pieces of content, and assign tasks to team members -- all on the same platform as their calendar. with the help of google docs, users can keep comments all in one place and can collaborate on different projects without emailing back-and-forth or having to schedule a meeting. this is a particularly useful feature when editing content for social media, which may need to be drafted and approved quickly. (hubspot customers: you can link your google drive account to your hubspot portal to easily upload files from drive into your hubspot software.) social media templates hubspot's social media calendar template if you're new to setting up social media calendars, hubspot offers a pre-made, free, and downloadable template that you can use to schedule out full weeks of posts. hubspot's social media content calendar template for startups this template is very similar to the one seen above, but also has tabs that work as a repository for content ideas. the template also includes helpful tips for posting on specific social media networks. if you're aiming to get all of your ideas down in order to develop a big-picture plan for your social assets, we recommend starting with this template. getting started on your social media schedule now that we've reviewed a few helpful tools to kick your social media strategy into high gear, experiment with them. every social media team is different, and it could be a combination of these tools that helps you execute your strategy efficiently to drive roi. editor's note: this post was originally published in 2017 and has been updated for comprehensiveness. originally published oct 1, 2019 5:48:00 pm, updated october 23 2019 topics: social media publishing don't forget to share this post! related articles the social media content calendar template every marketer needs [free template] marketing | 11 min read the best time to post on instagram, facebook, twitter, linkedin, & pinterest marketing | 4 min read a marketer's guide to nailing the timing & frequency of social media updates here's the thing: social media timing matters. in 2011, hubspot's dan zarrella conducted extensive research on the topic of social media timing . he examined a database of more than 100,000 accounts to determine what timing and frequency re... marketing | 8 min read download for later increase your traffic ad software blog software seo software social media software content management system connect with leads find new prospects email tracking sales email templates click to call your leads email marketing close and manage leads document tracking tool meeting schedule tool sales automation tool lead management tool pipeline management tool support and tools hubspot partners join a local user group piesync integrations free tools & generators get a free website report invoice template generator email signature generator marketing plan template generator blog ideas generator make my persona business templates hubspot templates contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium english deutsch 日本語 español português français copyright © 2019 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy