home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros be productive tips for writers by derek ralston editor’s note: if you want to be a successful writer, you need to build writing focus. but how? well, maybe donuts, dogs and tomatoes can provide the answer… mmm. the smell of a freshly baked donut. it almost makes you drool just thinking about it. ivan pavlov, a russian physiologist from the late 1800’s, was interested in studying this drool phenomenon, in order to see how digestion works in mammals. he began studying dogs to see what triggers them to salivate. pavlov had lab assistants, who wore identical lab coats, feed dogs, and noticed that the dogs soon began to salivate when they saw lab coats. he later reproduced this by ringing a bell each time the dogs were fed—the dogs started salivating after hearing the bell. the sound of the bell followed by food led the dogs to associate the two, through what pavlov called conditioning. as a writer, i wondered, how could i use conditioning to help me build writing focus? an italian university student had an answer for me. pavlov’s bell for writers wouldn’t it be great if you could condition yourself to be in a flow state on cue? writers, researchers, students, and programmers could stay focused on their work and free themselves from distractions. i imagine that francesco cirillo was thinking along these lines when he developed the pomodoro technique. as a university student in italy, cirillo was looking for a way to get more studying done. cirillo had a tomato-shaped kitchen timer (pomodoro means tomato in italian) which he used to fully focus on studying. he’d wind the timer to 25 minutes (which is equal to 1 “pomodoro”), and after the bell rang, take a 5-minute break. like pavlov’s dogs, as a writer using this technique, you’ll begin associating the ticking of the tomato timer as focus time. the bell at the end cues your break. (good doggy, you get a treat.) the science behind the pomodoro technique besides its connection to pavlovian theory, the pomodoro technique is research-backed as being helpful with memory and attention. research published in cognition shows that taking short breaks can significantly improve your ability to focus on a task for long periods. these short breaks also help prevent work burnout. the short breaks give your mind a chance to assimilate what you just wrote and your body a chance to do something healthy, like getting up and taking a short walk. the key to using the technique effectively is to actually take the break. when you hear the timer go off, stop your writing, allow your mind to wander, and your body to move. the exact 25 minutes focus followed by 5 minutes break that the pomodoro technique prescribes is not set in stone. it’s best to find what works for you, based on your attention span and constraints. will one pomodoro a day get your writing project anywhere? this technique may work for university students crunching for their next exam, but can a writer really use it to complete a book project? what about a busy writer that can only allot time for one pomodoro per day? kat loterzo used the pomodoro technique to draft her book on the subject of insomnia in just three weeks. she drafted six chapters, simply by focusing for 25 minutes per day. using the pomodoro technique effectively every morning, i sit at my desk and focus totally on what i’m writing. i don’t see anything else, i don’t think about anything else. -haruki murakami like murakami, you’ll need to concentrate completely on your writing task, uninterrupted, until your timer alerts you. here are tips for achieving that: predictable schedule? set boundaries around your pomodoros: let loved ones know about your writing time. create a shared calendar with recurring notifications so that everyone gets alerted before your session. if you have a dedicated writing space, put a do not disturb sign on the door. (for many writers, early morning sessions tend to work best due to less distractions.) unpredictable schedule? plan pomodoros for the upcoming week: when planning the upcoming week, look for free blocks of 30-90 minutes, and schedule them for writing time. for some writers, this may be less effective than having a set schedule, as it’s not always easy to “flip the switch” to writing mode. that being said, it may be your only option if your schedule varies week-to-week. upgrade your headphones: get high-end noise cancelling headphones (e.g. bose) if your writing space gets noisy. you’ll be amazed at how this improves your ability to focus while writing. turn off phone notifications: most phones have a do not disturb mode. turn it on during your writing time. some phones even allow you to schedule it (e.g. iphone), so if you know you’ll be writing from 6:00 – 7:00 am every weekday, you can set your phone to automatically go into do not disturb. listen to focus music: the pomodoro technique prescribes listening to a kitchen timer ticking for 25 minutes, but some writers get more focus when listening to music, especially music chosen for this task. mary jaksch uses music to improve her concentration when writing. use a focus app: if you don’t want to use a kitchen timer, here are the best apps i’ve found to increase focus. the benefit of using an app versus a kitchen timer is that you can use it with headphones. (so when you decide to start your writing session at 5 am, and the bell goes off, you don’t wake up your loved ones). focus keeper is based on the pomodoro technique. it sets 25-minute focus boxes, followed by 5-minute breaks. you can adjust the bell tone, as well as timer and break length. forest is not specific to the pomodoro technique, but provides a similar way to gamify your focus time. set a focus goal in terms of minutes (e.g. 25 minutes). as long as you keep the app open during your focus time, a tree will grow. if you close the app and break your goal, your tree will die. what makes you tick? like pavlov, you’ll want to conduct your own experiments, and you may uncover strange results. see what makes your bell ring—maybe your pomodoros will be 58 minutes long, and your breaks will be 9 minutes. my writing practice has me completing four 25-minute pomodoros every morning. to get my blood flowing, i do a set of ten push-ups during my five minute breaks. how do you stay focused? please share in the comments. tweet pin101 share13 114 shares related posts how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous by laura tong 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson about the author derek ralston derek ralston blogs about productivity for writers at derekralston.com. grab his free daily writing habit printable to try the jerry seinfeld technique for building a writing habit. derek has published 5 nonfiction books, 1 of which became top in its category on amazon. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here make real money from your blogging – today, not in three year’s time the blogger's guides - complete four pack grab your guides here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >