home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know how to write copy promotion by jeanne if you’re a writer with a goal of attracting and converting more clients, it’s important that you craft your message in a way that does exactly that. one way to do this is to use copywriting techniques on your website and marketing message. an amazing copy can do wonders for your brand and will help you sound genuine and helpful—without resorting to timeworn marketing buzzwords! 1. avoid buzzwords at all cost writing can be a tricky process. one minute you’re full of different ideas and the next moment, you can’t seem to write a word to jumpstart things. and that’s where we’re usually tempted to use marketing drivel. they’re easy, effortless, and requires no challenge because you’re just repeating something you’ve read numerous times. although they’re uncomplicated to use, they deprive your message of any meaningful significance that will position you as someone who can do the job competently. here are some examples of marketing claptrap to avoid: client-centric value-added revolutionary innovative disruptive using any of the above often results in a redundant message or dilutes what you have to say by making you sound like everybody else. after all, services should really have value and geared towards a client’s needs, among others. for example, rather than say that you’re offering an innovative service, why not extol the results that your service can help them achieve? compare the two: “i offer innovative services writing for tech companies who want to succeed.” “i offer comprehensive writing services that will help your brand stand out and get you heard no matter how crowded your space is.” 2. use specific and trustworthy statistics online, it’s easy to sound like you’re exaggerating the truth. anyone can spout off claims like, “i’ve helped hundreds of clients earn millions of sales from their businesses.” to grab the right attention and make yourself more credible, get specific in your claims. you can stay instead, “i’ve helped more than 220 clients in the past eight years net 2.5 million dollars in business sales.” this makes you more credible because you’re basing off of specific statistics and not just some random claim. 3. add a killer call-to-action no matter how awe-inspiring your brand message is, you’re missing out on converting your newly enamored readers if you don’t compel them to act on your message. although most people are wary of being too direct, being subtle with your call-to-action can easily backfire on you since you’re giving your website visitors an excuse not to take the next step you want them to. ctas make for a powerful addition to any copy or content because it’s what helps prompt an instant response from your readers. some examples are “get your free quote,” “learn more” or “send me a message.” 4. always include a compelling reason a powerful way to persuade your readers is to give them a reason to follow your recommendations. want them to sign up to your list? or want them to inquire about your services? let them know what they could miss out on if they pass on the chance! and better yet, use the word “because” while you’re at it. this was proven in a foundational psych study that surveyed students who want to get ahead in a long line on a copy machine. participants who used the word “because” had a compliance rate of as high as 94% even when the outlined reason doesn’t make any sense. 5. preempt buying concerns one amazing benefit that copywriting can do for you is that it helps you overcome barriers to purchase so you can convert more customers. but to do this, it’s important to not be afraid to discuss the important things. objections aren’t usually settled by themselves. either you talk it out with your prospects beforehand or wonder why you aren’t converting anyone. for example, if you often get complaints that your services are priced too high, explain the results that you can help them achieve. you can let them know how you can increase their sales by 25% or double their brand engagement through your services. it’s really all about making sure that you prove the value of your services. 6. always make it about your clients first have you ever visited a company’s website and left feeling like they just bulldozed you with a laundry list of everything that’s about them and none about you? they’ve listed their awards, their clients, their history, but nothing about what they can do for you. don’t make the same mistake because you’re essentially turning away new business. most customers want to know how you can help them solve a problem or achieve a result. so rather than say… “i’m an award-winning writer with 12-years of experience in the it industry” you can say instead… “i help it start-ups create a clear, compelling message that instantly appeals to their target audience.” now that’s an improvement! leveling up your copy with the above tips if you’ve ever wondered what’s a copywriter, the above are just some of the techniques that we employ. even if you aren’t one, you can definitely use the same methods to make sure your brand is conveying the right message that will appeal to your dream audience! tweet pin share related posts how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? by laura tong about the author jeanne combining her love for writing and psychology, jeanne writes attention-grabbing copy that helps your brand convey your best message and why you’re the only choice for your target customers! find out more at the copypsychologist ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >