start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on july 30, 2019 60 things to be thankful for in life amy morin a psychotherapist, psychology instructor, keynote speaker, and the author of the bestselling book 13 things mentally strong people don't do read full profile share pin it tweet share email sometimes, it’s easier to focus on what we don’t have, rather than what we do have. it’s important to take time out and remember all of the things to be thankful for that many of us take for granted. here you’ll find 60 very solid things to be thankful for in your everyday life. these are great reminders for you to treasure everything you have. 1. good health even if your health isn’t great, it could be worse and you likely still have some working parts to be thankful for. 2. money in the bank having just a few coins makes you richer than most people on earth. 3. good friends often, it’s the quality of friendships, not the quantity. 4. freedom of religion being able to worship whomever and however you want is something many people don’t ever experience. 5. your parents even if they’re dysfunctional, they gave you life. 6. weekends there’s something magical about weekends. 7. having a partner being in a romantic relationship can teach you so much about the world and yourself. 8. pets pets offer one of the best examples of unconditional love. 9. learning from mistakes if we never made mistakes, we wouldn’t learn much so it is one of those things we should be thankful for. 10. opportunity to get an education the opportunity to attend school is something many people don’t have. advertising 11. having a home whether you live in an apartment, a mansion, or a tent, having a place to call home is something to be thankful for. 12. an ability to read if you’re reading this right now, you have a lot to be thankful for. 13. breathing fresh air being able to step outside to breathe in fresh air is a good reminder how many little things we should be thankful for. 14. a bed to sleep a bed is one of those things that’s easy to take for granted, until you don’t have one. 15. laughter without laughter, the world would be a sad place. 16. safety and security being able to wake up without immense fear frees us up to really live life. 17. cars without cars, it would take a lot longer to get our activities done. 18. sunshine the sun’s warmth can brighten any day. 19. time although we often don’t think there’s enough of it, time is something we shouldn’t take for granted. 20. clean water many people on earth lack access to clean water. 21. cell phones cell phones make talking to loved ones easy. 22. love the world sure would be a different place if we lacked the ability to love. 23. books books provide an opportunity to enter another world all from the comfort of your own home. advertising 24. kindness of strangers never take the kindness of a stranger for granted. 25. campfires the simplicity of a campfire creates lifelong memories. 26. pain without pain, it would be difficulty to appreciate life’s joys. 27. art the world would be less beautiful if art didn’t exist. 28. holidays any reason to celebrate is something we should be thankful for. 29. freedom of speech being able to express your thoughts and feelings freely should never be taken for granted. 30. rainbows the beauty of a rainbow is unmatched. 31. tears sometimes when there are no words to say, tears express how we feel for us. 32. waking up today simply waking up today means you have things to be thankful for. 33. indoor plumbing indoor plumbing not only provides convenience, it spares us from disease. 34. wisdom that comes with age thankfully, we grow smarter over time. 35. mountains mountains provide us with beauty and recreation. 36. eyesight being able to see allows us to view the world’s beauty. advertising 37. grocery stores grocery stores mean we don’t have to spend all of our time getting our own food. 38. sunsets sunsets are a reminder that we should enjoy the simple things in life. 39. entertainment entertainment gives us a way to relax and enjoy life. 40. your mind being able to think, remember, and solve problems sure makes life easier. 41. employment even if you don’t like your job, being employed means someone thought you were special enough to hire. 42. diversity the world would be a boring place without diversity. 43. moon and stars the moon and stars encourage us to dream. 44. electricity electricity makes most of our chores efficient. 45. air conditioning staying cool on a hot day is something people wouldn’t have dreamed about in past centuries. 46. hearing being able to hear your loved one’s voice is something that not everyone gets to do. 47. children watching children laugh, grow, and dream can keep things in perspective. 48. ability to learn the ability to learn new things means we have endless potential. 49. people willing to teach whether it’s your grandmother teaching you to knit or your plumber showing you how to prevent future problems, be grateful that others are willing to use their time and talents to teach you something new. advertising 50. oceans the sea creatures in the ocean almost seem too mystical to be real. 51. modern medicine without advances in modern medicine, many of us wouldn’t be alive. 52. music music brings out new emotions. 53. entrepreneurs and inventors some of life’s best inventions resulted from an entrepreneur who was willing to take a risk. 54. warm clothing on a cold day, there’s nothing more important than warm clothing. 55. freedom to vote being able to have a say in the laws should never be taken for granted. 56. an internet connection it’s hard to believe how easy it is to take the internet for granted, seeing how none of us had just a couple of decades ago. 57. challenges without challenges in life, we wouldn’t be the people we are now. 58. hiking trails hiking trails give us the chance to enjoy mother’s nature beauty. 59. vaccines many of us wouldn’t be alive without today’s vaccinations. 60. armed forces our lives would likely be very different if we didn’t have protection from the armed forces. realizing all the things you should be thankful for is the first step, practicing gratitude is what you should start doing: 40 simple ways to practice gratitude how a gratitude journal and positive affirmations can change your life 6 ways to implement more gratitude in your life featured photo credit: unsplash via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life 6 ways to implement more gratitude in your life what is resilience and why is it important? advertising advertising more by this author amy morin a psychotherapist, psychology instructor, keynote speaker, and the author of the bestselling book 13 things mentally strong people don't do how to think positive thoughts when feeling negative 12 ways to improve social skills and make you sociable anytime 6 mistakes that keep you struggling in life and stuck 13 things mentally strong people don’t do 60 things to be thankful for in life advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness more by this author amy morin a psychotherapist, psychology instructor, keynote speaker, and the author of the bestselling book 13 things mentally strong people don't do how to think positive thoughts when feeling negative 12 ways to improve social skills and make you sociable anytime 6 mistakes that keep you struggling in life and stuck 13 things mentally strong people don’t do 60 things to be thankful for in life trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void you are not your thoughts: 10 ways to get rid of unhealthy thoughts advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.