we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk gifts like follow heads up: all products featured here are selected by mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. if you buy something, mashable may earn an affiliate commission. 60+ unique gifts for under $50: gift ideas for absolutely everyone share tweet share share by mashable shopping2019-10-12 12:42:22 utc gift-giving on a budget is an art. think about the "christmas party" episode of the office where michael insists on doing the yankee swap with everyone's secret santa gifts — you don't want to pull a michael and go way over the agreed price limit, but you also don't want to get a gift that no one actually wants — like phyllis' oven mitt. you've got to ride the line of cool gift at an appropriate cost. some people possess an innate talent for thoughtful gift-giving on a budget. no matter the occasion (anniversary, valentine's day, mother's day) or recipient (wife, boyfriend, teens, in-laws), they somehow nail their gift selections, cementing their rank in the gift exchange pecking order. see also: the best gifts to get your parents for any occasion on the other end of the spectrum, we all know that one misguided friend or family member who gifts the same scented lotion for every special occasion regardless of budget constraints. their go-to presents are boring at best, cringe-worthy at worst, and almost always end up relegated to the back of the closet or worse, the re-gift pile. for those who aren’t naturally gifted at the art of giving, we've done the heavy lifting for you. below are more than 60 unique options under $50 that people will actually be happy to receive. sponsored quip for self-care quip electric toothbrush quip is an electric toothbrush without all the bells and whistles. it looks very similar to a standard toothbrush, but it has amazing vibration power that provides a deep, thorough yet sensitive clean. you can either make a one-time purchase or set up a monthly plan for brush head replacements. from quip $35 see details urban outfitters for the photographer underwater 35mm camera this little camera is ready for any adventure whether it's an underwater shoot with friends or capturing ocean life on vacation. the camera takes 35 millimeter film (so retro!), so whoever you gift this to can use it again and again. (heads up, film is sold separately.) from urban outfitters $20 see details iuga for the active type yoga mat yoga is a great way to be active and practice mindfulness at the same time, and people can practice anywhere they can find the space. get the yogi in your life a nonslip mat to give them a solid foundation for their practice. they deserve to have their own mat instead of using the sweaty, foot-covered ones at the yoga studio. from amazon $27.95 see details homesick for the person who moved homesick candle moving away from your home state is fun and exciting, but eventually the homesickness sinks in, no matter how much you're loving the new digs. homesick candles are designed to smell like a place so that locals are transported back whenever they catch a whiff. it's a thoughtful gift that will also make a room smell nice. that's a win-win. from uncommongoods $30 see details foreo for self-care foreo luna facial cleansing brush enhance someone's skincare routine by gifting them one of these silicone cleansing brushes designed to leave skin looking and feeling flawless. it uses sonic technology to deep clean and scrub dirt and oil out of pores, which in turn brightens and refines complexion. from amazon $49 see details sponsored s'well for staying hydrated s'well bottle s'well bottles come in a few different sizes and shapes and tons of pattern and color varieties. they keep beverages cold for up to 24 hours or hot up to 12 and won't have any of that annoying condensation on the outside. from s'well $35 see details urban outfitters for the curious type fun fact ticket box learn something new every day with this cute little ticket dispenser. the gift recipient will be a total trivia whiz from these 100 tickets each displaying a fact about art, cats, and more. this little box is a great gift for the naturally curious. from urban outfitters $16 see details oster for foodies oster personal blender give someone the gift of delicious, fresh smoothies at their ready. this little blender is the perfect size for a single serving for someone on the go. they can blend drinks directly in the travel bottle and take it with them wherever. from amazon $25.89 see details anker for the tech-obsessed anker portable charger keep your gift recipient's phone and other devices charged up all the time by giving them this portable power bank. it charges super quickly and can fully power a phone up to three times before needing a recharge itself. from amazon $27.99 see details urban outfitters for the home fruit magnets add some fun to the gift recipient's fridge by decking it out with these cute ceramic magnets. they're inexpensive and add a colorful touch, even if the bananas do look a bit like corn on the cob. from urban outfitters $12 see details jic gem for the home agate coaster set these agate accessories add a pop of color to any room, and make the ideal gift for your roommate who has been using the same stack of magazines as coasters for the past six months. at under $30, this set of four is a steal. from amazon $28.90 see details aluratek for the home digital photo frame we carry around cameras in our pockets all day long, so it's no surprise if we have more photos than ever before. this digital frame uses a flash drive or sd card to upload pictures to cycle through. it has programmable slideshow settings for a bit of customization. from amazon $39.99 see details lbell for the home sunrise alarm clock this clock uses sunrise simulation to wake sleepers up gently and gradually like they would with natural sunlight pouring in their windows. it also imitates the sunset at night to ease into sleep. brightness, timing, and alarm volume are all adjustable for the best morning experience. from amazon $45.99 see details shutterfly for getting sentimental photo book sometimes a sentimental gift is the best way to go (especially if you're shopping for your parents or significant other). shutterfly lets you design a whole physical book full of your own pictures and text. it's like a modern version of scrapbooking and is a gift that the recipient can cherish for years. from shutterfly $15.99 see details soligt for crafters candle making kit everything someone needs to make their own scented candles is included in this kit. the gift recipient will have fun concocting different scents and colors. plus, the kit includes cute tins that people will love to display around the home. the price is really not bad when you consider how much individual candles can cost and this kit includes supplies for multiple candles. from amazon $49.99 see details dash for foodies dash mini waffle maker this fun-sized waffle maker is ideal for anyone who takes breakfast seriously — or really, for anyone who likes to get creative in the kitchen. a recipe book that outlines how to make everything from fluffy belgian waffles to grilled sandwiches to flavorful fajitas is included with purchase, and a non-stick surface makes cooking easy and cleanup painless. from amazon $29.99 see details prepara for foodies prepara herb savor regardless of which side of the cilantro debate you’re on, we can all agree that stale herbs are the pits. the herb savor can help you prolong the life of an array of kitchen herbs by up to three weeks, and it’s specially designed to fit in a fridge door for easy storage. from amazon $30.24 see details hamilton beach for foodies breakfast sandwich maker forget about braving mind-boggling brunch lines for a savory breakfast. this ingenious device lets you whip up pro-level brekkie sandwiches — complete with eggs, cheese, veggies, or whatever inventive ingredients you care to include — in five minutes flat. from amazon $39.99 see details barbuzzo for foodies dinosaur taco holder take your fiestas up a notch with this adorable taco holder that’s shaped like a tyrannosaurus (also available in other dino-species). perfect for kids or fun-loving adults, this unique utensil is the kitchen accessory you never knew you were missing in your life. from amazon $14.99 see details nostalgia for foodies hot dog toaster nostalgia electronics’ retro-style hot dog toaster will revolutionize your indoor bbq game. the machine makes two hot dogs at a time while simultaneously toasting the buns — and it’s sure to be a hit with the whole family. from amazon $19.95 see details nutrichef for foodies crêpe maker gift this nutrichef electric crepe maker & griddle to your friends with creative culinary inclinations. from crepes and blintzes to home-style pancakes, this gadget will be a welcome addition to any brunch-lover’s kitchen collection. from amazon $32.96 see details zicome for go getters magnetic hourglass need a time out? there’s something truly mesmerizing about this futuristic-looking hourglass. its wooden stand includes a strong magnet that molds magnetic sand into intriguing patterns at the base. a great gift idea for that friend who is known office-wide for their quirky desk tchotchkes. from amazon $9.98 see details htx for caffeine fiends self-stirring camera lens mug there are casual coffee drinkers, and then there are those who can’t see colors in the morning before they’ve had their cup of joe. for the latter, this self-stirring mug will be a much-appreciated gift they’ll get use out of daily. from amazon $12.99 see details hyperchiller for caffeine fiends hyperchiller iced coffee maker the hyperchiller is the perfect present for the iced coffee aficionado in your life. it chills hot coffee in under a minute without diluting flavor, and is dishwasher safe for easy cleaning. from amazon $29.99 see details tile for go getters tile mate it's hard to keep track of little things like keys (and phones and wallets...) which is why the tile mate makes a great gift. loop the tile mate through any keychain or attach it to anything you don't want to lose. then, when something's nearby but out of sight, you can make the tile ring to find it. can’t find your phone? the tile can make it ring — even if it’s on silent. from amazon $49.99 / four see details ovalware for caffeine fiends cold brew maker go ahead and hit that snooze button — this cold brew iced coffee maker lets you create cold brew at home, so you can skip the morning shuffle through that outrageous line at the corner café. from amazon $29.99 see details innogear for people who need to chill essential oil diffuser this aromatherapy oil diffuser is great for anyone who can use a calming presence in their life. the diffuser features seven color settings and a lovely wood-grain look that will subtly complement any home’s aesthetic. from amazon $19.99 see details waowoo for people who need to chill weighted blanket you can't always be there to hug the people you love, but you can give them a weighted blanket that makes them feel like they're wrapped in a big bear hug. the blanket helps people relax and sleep better and reduces feelings of stress and anxiety. from amazon $40.99 see details toysmith for people who need to chill mini zen garden for your friend or family member who has been trying to “get into” meditation for the past three years, this miniature zen garden is a solid first step. the 9-inch by 9-inch rosewood frame makes a handsome addition to any desk, coffee table, or bookshelf. from amazon $29.99 see details hemingweigh for people who need to chill himalayan salt lamp these cool-looking lamps are more than just soothing to look at. it is believed that himalayan salt lamps have a purifying effect on the air and emit calming vibes via ionization. each of these lamps is uniquely crafted by hand and comes with a hand-carved wooden base. (comes with two lamps!) from amazon $27.49 see details artnaturals for people who need to chill bath bomb gift set get mom up to speed on the bath bomb trend with this set by artnaturals. the kit includes 12 essential oil bath bombs with scents like coconut, lavender, aloe vera, seagrass, and green tea — and it’s perfect for a diy spa day. from amazon $22.99 see details tp-link for the tech-obsessed multicolor smart light bulb smart lights add such a nice touch to a home, and this one is especially great because it's both multicolor and dimmable. the user can choose from a broad spectrum of colors (including tunable white) and decide how bright they want the bulb to shine. from amazon $29.99 see details zochoose for the tech-obsessed wi-fi smart plugs for those interested in dabbling in the world of smart home accessories, a great place to start is with these easy-to-install smart outlets. use these wi-fi outlets for tasks like brewing morning coffee from bed, putting nightlights on a timer, and monitoring household data. from amazon $17.99 see details amazon for the tech-obsessed the echo dot a smart home isn't complete without an echo — and the newest dot makes it easier than ever to add the convenience of alexa to any room. the third generation dot is the cutest yet, complete with better sound and microphones than earlier ones. they can control smart devices like lights or blinds, become a household intercom, order pizza or an uber, and more. you're basically gifting an easier (lazier) life, and who wouldn't want that? from amazon $49.99 see details smarttech for the tech-obsessed bamboo wireless keyboard this beautiful keyboard lends an island aesthetic to any home office. both the keyboard and accompanying mouse wirelessly connect to your computer or gaming system, so you can keep your work station clear from cords and clutter. from amazon $46.99 see details makeymakey for the tech-obsessed makey makey invention kit this kit lets kids virtually connect with the world around them by turning everyday objects into connected keyboards. there are thousands of possibilities for the future engineer, inventor, or programmer to fiddle with — and it’s also a fun twist on family game night. from amazon $31.78 see details eufy for the tech-obsessed eufy genie smart speaker this speaker integrates with home voice-assistant technologies to bring you a fusion of smart-home seamlessness and high-tech tunes. it makes the perfect gift for your buddies on a first-name basis with siri, alexa, cortana, and the whole ai gang. from amazon $19.99 see details bodum for travelers french press travel mug you can’t book a parisian vacay for under $50, but you can gift this wonderful device that lets you take your french press coffee on the go. this durable mug holds 15 ounces of caffeinated goodness, is safe for dishwasher use, and comes with a spill-resistant lid. from amazon $18 see details ostrich pillow for travelers ostrich pillow travel pillow okay, so it looks a little silly — but who wouldn't love this? made from high quality eiderdown cotton, the ostrich pillow works wonders as a neck pillow or eye mask for folks who are always on the go. the pillow is filled with coated microbeads and is perfectly adjustable. in addition, the travel pillow's materials are breathable, so it's never too hot when you're wearing it around your neck or on your eyes. from amazon $45 see details giantex for pet parents pet backpack everyone has that one friend who talks about their pet as if it were a human child. these backpack cases make an incredible gift for such loved ones. with a hard-sided, semi-sphere outer shell, these carrier cases are a fun way to blast off about town with your furry companions. from amazon $39.99 see details luckiesoflondon for travelers scratch-off world map scratching new countries off this map will prove deeply satisfying for the world traveler in your life. these maps make the ultimate tagalong companion for any journey, and they’re a beautiful piece of wall art when you return home from your travels. from amazon $35.95 see details eddiebauer for travelers packable backpack frequent travelers know that less is more when it comes to packing sensibly. gift this packable backpack to your friend who swears by the carry-on-only approach to globetrotting. from amazon $24 see details w&p for travelers carry on cocktail kit sometimes a little liquid courage is necessary to make the whole hurtling-through-the-air-in-an-oversized-sardine-can thing a little more tolerable. the carry on cocktail kit is a classy addition to any traveler’s arsenal, and easily fits into a dopp kit. from amazon $18.99 see details karusale for travelers solar-powered charger for your outdoorsy friends or family members who want to stay connected while they commune with mother nature, this solar-powered charging bank is the perfect present. it features a durable design, high-capacity, and an led flashlight to boot. from amazon $26.99 see details charles good-man for writers magnetic notebook there's something so satisfying about writing in a notebook — until you realize your thoughts are all over the place and out of order. this book is filled with magnetic pages that you can pull out and rearrange. they attach back in with ease, making organization a breeze. from uncommongoods $30 see details explodingkittens just for fun exploding kittens cutthroat competition meets strategic reasoning in this popular game, illustrated by the cartoonist behind webcomic site the oatmeal. this family-friendly version of the game comes complete with an illustrated set of cards, instructions, and hours of entertainment. from amazon $19.99 see details sagaform for the home bar glass wine carafe up your bar cart accessory game with this sagaform wine carafe. the hand-blown glass container holds 67 ounces, is dishwasher safe, and looks simply lovely as a centerpiece. this classic glassware may look expensive, but won’t break the bank. from amazon $36.99 see details uncommongoods for the home bar geo cocktail glasses this geometric cocktail set is made from hand-blown soda glass and pulls inspiration from terrarium design. they add a level of modernism and sophistication to whatever your drink of choice. from uncommongoods $30 see details wllrun for the home bar death star ice mold whisky stones are so last year. this ice mold is perfect for the whisky or scotch enthusiast who frequently brings up the force in casual conversation. in addition to ice, this silicone mold lets you get creative with homemade chocolates or other death-star-shaped delicacies. from amazon $11.79 see details uncommongoods for the decorator color-changing lightbox this sign adds a blockbuster quality to any room. it comes with interchangeable letters which allow for customizable words and phrases. like a real marquee, this mini lightbox is back-lit and cycles through colors or stops on your hue of choice. from uncommongoods $35 see details obol just for fun an anti-soggy cereal bowl we'll state the obvious: soggy cereal is nasty, bro. if the person you're gifting to is a cereal-every-morning person (or just doesn't like their food to touch), this compartment bowl is a simple life hack. the spiral slide design is good to keep milk separate from cereal to keep it crunchy, and makes snacks like chips and salsa way easier. from amazon $14.95 see details schylling just for fun gumball machine this retro gumball machine is a dose of childhood nostalgia, and makes a great gift for that coworker with a sense of humor and a sweet tooth. the mini machine really works — it accepts coins and holds up to 50 gumballs. from amazon $21.99 see details dash just for fun dash popcorn maker there's never a bad time for popcorn and freshly popped over microwaved is always a good idea. this little popcorn maker is compact and can be stored super easily in kitchens or dorm rooms and produces hot, fresh popcorn in minutes. from amazon $29.99 see details 4dmaster just for fun gummi bear skeleton model perfect for your cousin getting a phd in high-fructose-corn-syrup studies, this gift is guaranteed to make an intriguing conversation piece, if nothing else. this skeletal model of one of the world’s most beloved gelatinous candies comes with instructions for easy assembly. from amazon $36.78 see details nostalgia for foodies grilled cheese sandwich toaster grilled cheese feels like a sandwich that should be quick and easy, but in reality you have to fire up the stove and dirty a pan. this grilled cheese toaster takes the grunt work out of making a crispy, golden sandwich. just assemble the grilled cheese as you normally would (including the butter) and pop it in the toaster and it's ready in minutes. from amazon $24.99 see details whatdoyoumeme just for fun what do you meme? bring your favorite memes from the internet into the living room with this trendy game. it makes the ideal gift for your friend who incessantly tags you in memes on every imaginable form of social media. from amazon $29.99 see details uncommongoods just for fun tabletop cornhole if you have a friend or relative who loves cornhole but lives in a place with seasons, get them this miniature tabletop version of the classic yard game. rather than throwing bags at the boards, you catapult them, which adds a fun twist to the game. with this smaller version, cornhole fanatics can play all year round. from uncommongoods $48 see details pooch selfie for pet parents a selfie stick for dogs for girls who like dogs more than they like people, pooch selfie is the selfie stick alternative made specifically for taking pictures with doggos. clip it to your phone and show fido the tennis ball on top. pooch selfie gets him or her to do the impossible: actually look at the camera, basically guaranteeing money shot after money shot. (there's also one with a little bell for cats.) from amazon $14.95 see details these cards will get you drunk just for fun these cards will get you drunk the name of this card game tells you exactly what it's about. this adult drinking game involves competing, voting, and screwing over your friends. there is no point system — just follow the cards' instructions and try not to be the one taking the most drinks. from amazon $15.99 see details dash just for fun dash shaved ice machine this shaved ice machine in an inexpensive way to enjoy frozen treats like snow cones and margaritas at home. it's a great gift for both kids and adults. from amazon $29.99 see details vanenjoy for green thumbs dinosaur planter make plant care more fun with a planter in the shape of a triceratops or stegosaurus. these little pots are ideal for succulents or small flowers, but can also be used to hold pencils, jewelry, or other small items. in addition to having two dino choices, the planter also comes in either red, white, or blue. from amazon $14.39 see details huabei for green thumbs plant terrarium for plant parents, this cute terrarium is a stylish place to house their greenery. the three bulb terrariums are made of heat resistant glass that's not easily broken. this gift will look great in a home or an office. from amazon $18.99 see details royal craft wood for people who need to chill bathtub tray do you know someone who could spend hours soaking in the tub? get them this bath tray so they can have entertainment on hand. the caddy has spaces for drink glasses, phones, tablets, and candles. it can also be used outside of the tub for working on the couch or having breakfast in bed. from walmart $28.75 see details jen sincero for the awesome people in your life 'you are a badass' remind someone just how awesome they are by gifting them this book. you are a badass is chock-full of stories, advice, and exercises to bring the reader to an understanding of how to love what they can't change and change what they don't love. from amazon $8.99 see details uncommongoods for the baker macaron kit anyone can feel like they're working in a beautiful french patisserie with this at-home macaron kit. this diy set comes with a nonstick silicone baking mat, refillable icing/batter pen, and six decorating tips. plus, it includes a recipe book, so this is even a great gift for beginners. from uncommongoods $30 see details topics: culture, gadgets, gift guides, mashable deals, money masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.