wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 61 best free wordpress blog themes for 2020 61 best free wordpress blog themes for 2020 last updated on february 28th, 2020 by editorial staff 1.1k shares share tweet share pin are you looking for a free wordpress blog theme for your website? there are thousands of free blog themes for wordpress making it harder for beginners to choose one for their sites. these blog themes are further divided into different niches and categories. in this article, we have hand-picked some of the best free wordpress blog themes that you can use on your new blog. getting started with wordpress first, you need to make sure that you are using the right platform. self hosted wordpress.org site is the perfect platform to start your blog because it gives you more freedom, flexibility, and control. it is open source and comes with support for thousands of free templates and extensions that help you grow your blog faster. see our guide on why you should use wordpress for more details. you can use our step by step beginner’s guide on how to start a wordpress blog for full instructions. once you are up and running, it is time to choose a theme for your website. you can choose a theme from our expert selection below and then follow the instructions in our how to install a wordpress theme guide to set it up properly. having said that, let’s take a look at some of the best free wordpress blog themes that you can install on your website. 1. astra astra is a fully customizable and free wordpress blog theme. it’s well suited for personal blogs, portfolios, business blogs, and even ecommerce websites. it works perfectly with all the popular page builders, including beaver builder, divi, elementor, etc. it comes with built-in support for woocommerce to easily add an online store to your blog if needed. it is also translation-ready and can be used to make blogs in any language. it is a lightweight theme with tons of colors options and fonts. you can find the theme options in the wordpress customizer with live preview. 2. oceanwp oceanwp is one of the most popular free wordpress themes with tons of premium-like features. it has its own companion plugin and recommends installing a free page builder plugin upon activation. it can be used for any kind of website, including blogs, magazines, business website, or an ecommerce store. it includes multiple layout choices, fullwidth pages, 2 navigation menus on the top, custom logo support, multiple sidebar areas, beautiful image galleries, and more. it is super flexible but still very easy to set up with live customizer support. 3. hestia hestia is a highly flexible free wordpress theme for all types of websites. it comes with an easy setup wizard and a companion plugin which adds testimonials and services section to your website. it can be used with popular page builder plugins and is ready for woocommerce out of the box. the homepage can be easily set up using the live theme customizer where you can just add sections and rearrange them with drag and drop. 4. bento bento is a powerful multi-purpose wordpress blog theme with tons of features. it works great with the most page builder plugins and even recommends installing one upon activation. for a free wordpress theme, bento comes packed with great customization options. all of them can be accessed using the wordpress theme customizer. 5. go need a blog theme with a minimalist approach to design? checkout go. it is a simple wordpress blog theme with a welcome message and call-to-action buttons in the header. designed to improve readability it uses clean typography and elegantly handles featured images. 6. ribosome ribosome is a magazine-style free wordpress blog theme. it comes with a custom header, custom background, and unlimited colors. it has a single navigation menu and a social menu on the top. it comes with a 2-column layout with a sidebar on the right. ribosome has six different google fonts, round or square thumbnails, 2 widgets areas at beginning and end of posts, perfect for displaying ads or related posts. 7. poseidon poseidon is a free multi-purpose wordpress blog theme. featuring a spacious layout, it comes with a full-width slider, homepage layout, and multiple page templates. the homepage layout can be easily set up using widgets. 8. siteorigin unwind siteorigin unwind is a free multi-purpose wordpress theme with full woocommerce support. designed with a minimalist style, unwind is highly customizable using siteorigin page builder plugin. it comes with multiple layouts, custom header, background, and color support. 9. hemingway hemingway is a clean wordpress blog theme featuring a 2-column layout and a full-width header image area with parallax effect. it supports custom accent color, custom logo upload, custom widgets (video, flickr, and dribbble), page templates, etc. all theme options are quick and easy to set up. 10. maxwell maxwell is a minimalistic and elegant wordpress theme. it features a clean magazine-style layout with beautiful typography. other notable features include various post layouts and a gorgeous featured posts slideshow. 11. writee writee is a free wordpress theme suitable for personal websites, adventure, and travel blogs. it features a large slider on top using featured images from blog posts. it also comes with multiple templates and custom widgets among many other features. 12. fascinate fascinate is a beautiful wordpress blog theme designed specifically for professional writers, personal portfolios, lifestyle blogs, and fashion businesses. it uses beautiful typography, elegant color schemes, and an eye-catching featured slider. 13. moderne moderne is an elegantly crafted wordpress blog theme. it is designed with readability in mind and creates a visual appearance that puts your content at the center. it comes with a featured content carousel slider on the homepage, and a 2-columns layout showing your content beautifully. 14. kent kent is a modern wordpress blog theme with a 2-column layout. it comes with a collapsible navigation menu, custom logo, custom background, and header support. all theme options are quite easy to set up using the live wordpress customizer. 15. lovecraft lovecraft is a clean and simple free wordpress blogging theme. it features a full-width custom header at the top and uses bold headlines for post titles. it comes with a left sidebar and one navigation menu at the top. 16. baskerville baskerville is a modern and stylish wordpress blog theme. it features a large full-width header image followed by your posts presented as a grid on the homepage. it comes with gorgeous templates for single posts and pages. 17. admiral admiral is a magazine-style wordpress theme suitable for sports blogs, magazines, and news websites. it features a three-column layout with 2 sidebars on both sides and the content column in the middle. it comes with a featured posts slideshow, a magazine homepage template, a widgetized header area, 2 different post layouts, and support for infinite scroll. 18. shapely if you are looking for a wordpress blog theme with a fullscreen background, then try shapely. it comes in a 1-column layout with several homepage widgets, parallax sections, and call-to-action buttons. the theme supports popular wordpress plugins that you need to maximize the functionality of your blog. it’s fully optimized for seo. 19. ashe ashe is a beautiful free blog theme for wordpress. it has a magazine-style layout with a large header image and a featured content slider. it integrates with popular page builders like beaver builder, elementor, and more for easy customization. 20. hiero hiero is a free wordpress blog theme with a magazine layout. it uses bold colors for header and accent. it features a 2-column layout and has a clear navigation menu on top. the homepage displays your latest posts with excerpts and featured images. 21. tracks tracks is a thoughtfully designed wordpress blog theme for personal, magazines, and photography websites. it includes a logo uploader, social media icons, search bar, widget-ready areas, and crisp typography. the homepage features a grid layout of your posts with featured images. 22. mesmerize mesmerize is a colorful wordpress blog theme. it is highly flexible and uses over 30 content sections to showcase your blog content. it supports video background, slideshow background, header content types, and gradient overlay on the homepage. 23. the columnist the columnist is a free wordpress blog theme featuring a magazine-style look. it comes with different layouts for homepage, archives, single pages, bbpress, and buddypress. it also includes a responsive customizable slider and four color schemes. 24. satori satori is a highly customizable wordpress theme for blogs and personal websites. it features a full-width header on the homepage and comes with different page templates, including support for woocommerce, multiple widget-ready areas, and post formats. 25. phlox phlox is a highly customizable free wordpress blog theme. it has a beautiful homepage layout with a fullscreen header background image on top and featured content below. it comes with multiple widget-ready areas, page templates, custom headers, backgrounds, social icons, and color schemes. 26. illdy illdy is a multi-purpose wordpress theme suitable for business, personal, and magazine websites. it is built on bootstrap framework, features large header images, 2-column or full-width layout, custom background, and color selection. 27. primer primer is a simple and clean wordpress blog theme. it features a classic blog layout with a content column and a right sidebar. it has a fullscreen header image with a custom logo, a navigation menu, and a call-to-action button to redirect users to your landing page. 28. blog diary blog diary is a multi-purpose wordpress blog theme featuring a beautiful black and white layout. it has unlimited color choices, crisp typography, and custom widgets. the theme supports the gutenberg block editor out of the box. 29. garfunkel garfunkel is a stylish wordpress blog theme featuring a grid layout on the homepage. it supports custom headers, custom backgrounds, six post formats (including a gallery slideshow), six custom widgets, a social menu, and 2 page templates. 30. author author is a beautiful wordpress blog theme for authors and writers. it features a simple 2-column layout with a sidebar and navigation menu in the left column while content on the right. it supports custom colors, background, and multiple post formats. it is optimized for accessibility and performance. 31. tempo tempo is a modern wordpress blogging theme that can be easily used as a business website as well. it features clean crisp typography with a bright breezy layout. it supports custom header, parallax, header buttons, custom logo, custom colors, custom background, social links, left and right sidebar, and custom widgets. 32. hueman hueman is one of the most popular free wordpress themes. it comes with a multi-column layout and can be easily used on any kind of content-rich blog or magazine website. you also get support for custom headers, 2-column layout, full-width layout, and tons of easy customization options. 33. ifeature ifeature is a modern and stylish wordpress theme suitable for magazines, business, personal, and portfolio websites. it features a full-width background image and a slider on top followed by your content. it includes features like sticky headers, author bio box, multiple widget areas, and page templates. the theme options can be easily set up using drag and drop in the live customizer. 34. natural lite natural lite is a simple blogging theme with earthy tones. it uses large featured images, supports custom header, and background. it comes with multi-column layouts and easy customization options. 35. responsive responsive is a beautiful wordpress theme designed for flexibility. it is suitable for authors, personal websites, photography, and even business websites. it comes with 9 page templates, 11 widget areas, 6 template layouts, 4 menu positions, and more. responsive is woocommerce compatible, multilingual ready, and supports all rtl-languages. 36. virtue virtue is a beautiful and free wordpress blog theme. it has a clean layout with 2 navigation menus and a large full-width header image. all the theme options are easily customizable using the live theme customizer. it also comes with multiple post formats for videos, gallery, audio, chat, aside, quote, etc. 37. otography otography is a classic wordpress free blog theme. it has a beautiful large size image slider with social icons, navigation menu, and eye-catching colors. it includes typography options and easier theme setup with drag and drop settings under live customizer. it is an ideal theme for personal, blog, magazine, photography, and fashion websites. 38. ignite ignite is a stylish wordpress blog theme featuring a classic blog look. it comes with a 2-column layout, a compact top bar used for navigation menus, site title, and description. it uses medium size featured images before post titles and utilizes crisp typography for better reading experience on your blog. 39. avant avant is a highly customizable and free wordpress theme suitable for all kind of websites. it is ready for ecommerce with full woocommerce support and can be easily used to create content-rich websites as well. it includes 7 header layouts, 5 blog layouts, 3 footer layouts, unlimited color choices, and lots more settings all built neatly into the wordpress customizer. it is tested to work with all popular page builders and other essential wordpress plugins. 40. responsive mobile as the name suggests, responsive mobile is a wordpress theme designed with a mobile-first approach. it looks equally great on all devices and screen sizes. this theme features 9 page templates, 11 widget areas, 6 template layouts, 4 menu positions, call-out section with a call to action button, custom fonts, custom background image, and more. suitable for business websites, it is very easy to use and can be quickly set up. 41. vogue vogue is a stylish wordpress theme designed specifically for fashion, lifestyle, and ecommerce websites. it comes with full woocommerce support and allows you to set up an online store easily. it offers multiple header layouts, custom woocommerce design, multiple footer layouts, multiple blog layouts, and a bunch of extra layout customization. it has unlimited color settings all built neatly into the wordpress customizer. 42. magbook magbook is a beautifully designed wordpress theme for content-rich websites, including magazines, newspapers, blogs, and more. it features a clean minimalist design with multiple layout choices and a quick 1-click demo installer. it comes with ready-to-use templates for contact us, gallery, and magazine pages. tested with all popular wordpress plugins, magbook can also be used to create an online store or a multilingual wordpress site. 43. panoramic panoramic is another excellent free wordpress theme suitable for all kinds of blogs, websites, and online stores. it comes with flexible customization options and a beautiful homepage slider. it is very easy to use even for absolute beginners. you can find the theme options under live customizer which allows you to make changes to your site with a live preview. 44. conica conica is a super-flexible wordpress multi-purpose theme that can be used to build almost any kind of website. it includes 2 site layouts, 2 color schemes, 4 header layouts, 5 blog layouts, 3 footer layouts, multiple page templates, and a bunch of theme options to customize your colors and layouts settings. 45. citylogic citylogic is a premium-like free wordpress theme suitable for all kinds of sites, including small business websites. it features a modern design with a large header on the homepage, a transparent navigation menu, a welcome message, and your most important content. it also comes with a built-in slider and can be used with other slide plugins as well. it is woocommerce ready and can be used to create beautiful online stores. all the theme options are quite easy to follow and allow you to easily customize it to your requirements. 46. agama agama is a clean and spacious free wordpress theme suitable for all kind of websites. it is super-flexible and comes with simpler theme options allowing you to quickly set it up. it is built on bootstrap with parallax support, responsive design, and minimal layout. it is woocommerce ready and can also be used to create multilingual websites. 47. fury fury is a simple wordpress theme with a minimal design and layout. it works out of the box and has very easy to use theme options. it is built on bootstrap with responsive design and fast performance. it includes a sticky header, unlimited colors, blog page template, a smooth scroll effect, and more. it is woocommerce ready and can be easily used with any wordpress page builder. 48. ascend ascend is a beautiful wordpress multi-purpose theme. it comes with support for the upcoming gutenberg feature which adds drag and drop block editing features to wordpress. it also supports all popular page builder plugins. inside you will find tons of useful options all of which are neatly organized under theme customizer. it also includes a transparent header, multiple navigation menus, sidebars, color options, and more. 49. wisteria wisteria is a simple wordpress blog theme with a focus on beautiful typography and content. it comes with a custom background, custom colors, custom header, and a left sidebar. wisteria also has a single navigation menu on top and beautiful homepage design that shows your posts with custom excerpts and featured image. 50. blogasm blogasm is a simple free blog theme for wordpress. it features a minimalist and clean design with a focus on your blog posts. this theme can be used to create a personal, fashion, lifestyle, and photography blog. it comes with a header social menu, header search icon, column layout, custom header, and sidebar. all the theme options are easy to set up using the live theme customizer. 51. the writers blog the writers blog is a free multi-purpose wordpress theme designed specifically for writers, bloggers, journalists, authors, and content-savvy blogs. it comes with an image slider to impress the visitors in the first look. it allows you to select a color scheme of your choice. it is easy to set up, responsive, and fully customizable wordpress theme. 52. blogstart blogstart is the perfect theme to start your blog right away. it is free to download with a clean and simple layout design that can engage your users with its features. it lets you display featured posts alongside the navigation menu. blogstart is optimized for page load speed and performance. 53. creativ creativ is a modern free wordpress blog theme. it has a full-width boxed frame layout for the header with an image slider, navigation menu, search bar, and social menu. it features a custom logo in the middle of the header section. it has blurbs for landing pages on the homepage. 54. blogger era blogger era is a well-thought free blog theme for wordpress. it is suited for an online magazine, personal blog, publisher, news, or portfolio site. it has an about section for you to add an image and excerpt in the sidebar. it offers a centralized layout to post your content. this theme is fully responsive and translation ready to create a multilingual website. 55. queens magazine queens magazine is a user-friendly free wordpress blog theme built for bloggers and online magazines. it has a lot of space for your content. with the 3-column layout, you can display multiple featured posts in the first fold of your blog. it comes with custom settings for logo and tagline. queens magazine theme offers multiple sidebars and footers to give you a layout variety. 56. balanced balanced is a clean and responsive wordpress blog theme. it has a custom logo with a full-width header background on the top. the theme has 2-column layout and cross style for posts. you can use the wordpress widgets in the sidebar. it is seo optimized and supports wpml for translations. 57. infinity infinity is a minimalist and free blog theme. it has bold colors for borders and background well-suited for small businesses, creative agencies, etc. the homepage follows a navigation menu on top with social icons. it allows you to add a custom logo with a tagline. 58. interserver interserver is a beautiful free mommy blogger theme for wordpress. it is fully customizable with many options at the admin backend for blog layout and landing pages. you can add the image slider and categories on the homepage. it has beautiful colors and design for the entire blog. 59. journal journal is a stylish free wordpress blog theme for personal journals and all types of bloggers. it has stunning typography and beautiful layout design. it offers a space to add your short bio on the homepage. journal is a fully responsive and search engine friendly theme. 60. bold photography bold photography is a modern and free blog theme for photographers, writers, and authors. the homepage has a fullscreen background image slider that you can replace with your most popular or featured photos. it has custom widgets, color choices, parallax sections, and more. bold photography has a fast page load time and lazy load images to perform better than usual. 61. sparker sparker is a lightweight free wordpress blog theme. this theme can also be used to create small business websites and online stores. it features custom widgets, beautiful slider section, featured post column, footer options, and ad spaces. it is easy to use and optimized for seo. we hope this list helped you find the best free wordpress blog themes for your website. you may also want to check out this guide on why you must avoid nulled wordpress themes and plugins and our pick on the best email marketing services. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 1.1k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to start your own podcast (step by step) revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 86 commentsleave a reply john denver says: feb 28, 2020 at 6:58 pm live this! i work for a lot of different companies so having this comprehensive list is perfect for really any industry. thank you for sharing! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 2, 2020 at 11:09 am you’re welcome reply daniel waduka says: nov 11, 2019 at 4:18 am this is surely a comprehensive list. i have shortlisted 5 themes, from which i am going to choose my best pick. thanks so much!! reply wpbeginner support says: nov 11, 2019 at 10:54 am glad our list could help you find some great themes to choose from reply mark on the moon says: oct 7, 2019 at 2:57 pm great list. i love it. what is the best for speed? thanks a lot mg reply wpbeginner support says: oct 8, 2019 at 9:50 am you would want the theme to be the design of your wordpress site. for speeding up your site you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wordpress-performance-speed/ reply debbie says: sep 18, 2019 at 12:35 pm hi. i would like to start with a blog, then eventually (many months down the road) have an on-line store. would it be safe to say that i could choose any theme that says, ‘woo commerce’ ready? thanks for all the suggestions! reply wpbeginner support says: sep 19, 2019 at 10:05 am yes, you certainly can choose a theme for that reply ukasha says: sep 4, 2019 at 3:45 am your all themes are amazing specially hueman . but i just want to know is it have any limitations? like if i use it and then apply some adds on web by adsans is it make any problems? earning and other reply wpbeginner support says: sep 4, 2019 at 10:28 am unless we hear otherwise, none of these themes should have an issue with that. reply juvy sebial says: aug 19, 2019 at 8:28 pm hello… i just need advice on which free theme that is best for my blog and which web hosting is the best. juvy reply wpbeginner support says: aug 20, 2019 at 10:29 am themes are, in large part, personal preference. for choosing hosting, you would want to take a look at our page here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/hosting/ reply tom low says: aug 19, 2019 at 2:35 am is the free version of astra actually any good for blogging? i can’t find any astra starter sites that are good for blogging. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 19, 2019 at 11:21 am yes, we feel that astra is a good theme for blogging reply ani says: aug 18, 2019 at 2:01 pm thanks so much. its really hard choosing one!!! i love it reply wpbeginner support says: aug 19, 2019 at 11:44 am glad you like our list reply shivansh says: jul 11, 2019 at 12:53 pm you can tell me your theme name? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 12, 2019 at 11:27 am our theme is a custom theme we created, for what we use on wpbeginner you would want to take a look at our blueprint page here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/blueprint/ reply jay mark says: jul 1, 2019 at 2:12 pm i need a free family site theme compatible with a family tree plug in. i don’t want any trials for payment or surprises. thank you reply wpbeginner support says: jul 2, 2019 at 11:40 am for a few options, you could take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/showcase/best-wordpress-themes-for-family-blogs/ reply mojury says: jun 27, 2019 at 3:40 am thanks! really nice theme. thanks for sharing this information. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 27, 2019 at 10:57 am glad you like our themes list reply ajay goyal says: jun 18, 2019 at 5:41 am great article, nice collection. thanks for sharing. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 18, 2019 at 10:45 am thanks for reading our list reply j says: may 13, 2019 at 9:51 pm most of these themes are ancient. you’re kidding, right? reply wpbeginner support says: may 14, 2019 at 11:17 am some of the themes have been around for some time but that does not mean they aren’t a good fit, we’ll certainly take a look at replacing any themes that are no longer working. reply danish says: apr 20, 2019 at 10:10 pm can you help me choose between illdy and ascend theme, which is better for a science blog? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 22, 2019 at 11:56 am either should work for a science blog, it would mainly be your preference on how you would like the content displayed that would determine which you should use reply thomas altobias says: apr 7, 2019 at 10:21 am i did not even think before coming here that i could read such a great topic. how can a person communicate so nicely? i want to come here again because i do not want to miss such a good post. there is nothing to say. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 8, 2019 at 1:06 pm glad you like our content reply john says: mar 30, 2019 at 10:39 am first i thank you for all your stuff ive also watched your youtube videos really helpful!. but some are fake themes pictures attracted me but they were fake!everything else goodjob! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 1, 2019 at 12:04 pm some themes have demo content, if you reach out to the theme’s support they can let you know if the demo content is available. reply brahmi abdelouahed says: jan 17, 2019 at 10:40 am i really like this formation, you have motivated and encouraged more people to make them personnal blogs reply wpbeginner support says: jan 17, 2019 at 11:24 am thank you for your kind words reply faizan yasin says: jan 15, 2019 at 3:52 am i am glad to find the right place at least. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 15, 2019 at 2:37 pm glad our articles are what you were looking for reply elaine ness says: sep 1, 2018 at 5:22 pm hi, quite some time ago i set up a blog on wp using a free theme, “magnolia” something or other. it was offered in two colors:a plum/pink and blue. i can’t locate it now. poof and it was gone. did you discontinue it? and other options of similar designs? i want an illustrated theme like rendered decorative art design, not photography of any kind in the theme. i had not made the blog go live because i was still choosing categories. i would like to be able to pick up where i was and activate my blog. can you direct me or give me any help? thanks! elaine reply sam says: jul 25, 2018 at 12:43 am great content, loving all the designs and stuff. hope to see more of this! reply jany says: jun 17, 2018 at 8:04 am i have started with using the theme modernize, which looks fine. but there is only one area for widgets, sidebar. it is not possible to deactivate widgets on certain pages, for example on “home”. now am looking for a similar theme which has the specs of “modernize”: – one column page – usage of page builder – set a one column page to front page and has the specs which i miss with “modernize”: – more widget areas, footer area – easy integration of social buttons via sharing faciity thanks a lot for your help. reply joan b. lima says: mar 23, 2018 at 9:16 pm i am sorry but almost none of those themes look like a food blog theme. that’s not really a list that is helpful for the food bloggers. there are better options on wordpress.org alone and your list doesn’t include even one of them? did you get paid to advertise these themes? or did the author of the article didn’t bother to do a little research? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2018 at 3:56 pm hi joan, these are just best free wordpress themes for general blogs. please see our wordpress themes for recipe blogs it has both free and paid themes. reply caroline rodriguez says: mar 23, 2018 at 2:57 pm i love poseidon theme. it comes with wordpress by default if you install the cms via softaculous. reply hoffmann says: mar 23, 2018 at 8:11 am after going through all these themes, i decided to try heuman theme, this is the 3th wordpress theme i am changing for my site and this heuman is the best. thank you wp beginner, thumps up for this great site. reply janey says: mar 14, 2018 at 1:42 am i am a complete novice and am tsking everything one step at a time using your site as a guide. my wordpress site is for building my own crowdfunding platform for a documentary film i am making. i want the front page to show the youtube trailer. then their will be another clip featusing the filmmaker. i also want to include 5 profiles of characters (with a paragraph ) in the film. oh and add a donate button ive been looking at the free themes for days and still have no idea which i should use. i want it to look less like a go fund me page. is their anyway you can give me a steer as to which theme would be suitable? ithe seems none will let me show a trailer and a clip. i could be wrong here . i have spoken to stripe the payment management people and i guess they will help me too reply bijay says: mar 6, 2018 at 8:42 pm thank you for a very good article which is really awesome. choosing themes and plugins from wordpress.org is more confusing to like bento, eggnews, miteri etc. so, this article is very helpful to choose best one. reply terence says: mar 2, 2018 at 12:10 pm i am brand new to web site building. i am starting a blog to attach to my youtube channel. my question concerns plugins. i have no issues paying for themes or using any free templates. i just want to make sure that i have any plugins i want now or in the future. i am thinking that i might be better of paying for a theme now as the plugins will just add up in price and cost me more in the long run. also are these paid themes all created equal? i have visited their sites but will admit i am more of a noob than i expected, lol. i have read a ton of your articles and they are most helpful. i do appreciate your efforts thank you very much in advance for your help! terence reply wpbeginner support says: mar 5, 2018 at 9:23 am hi terrence, themes in wordpress are supposed to control the appearance of your website. plugins on the other hand are used to add functionality. some paid themes often blur this difference by stepping into the plugin territory by offering functionality you would normally find in plugins. we will recommend you to start with a free theme and then use plugins to add features you need. reply ayesha khan says: feb 28, 2018 at 2:06 am hi there, hope you have a nice day. i’m new to wordpress and wants to start my own blog as a writer. please suggest me some good, attractive themes. also i want free themes because it’s my start. thank you reply wpbeginner support says: feb 28, 2018 at 4:20 pm hi ayesha, all themes mentioned in this article above are free and are made specifically for blogging and writing. reply vijaya says: feb 24, 2018 at 4:10 am thanks for listing the themes. i have chosen hiero for my blog. can we integrate adsense with this. do you suggest any other theme. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 25, 2018 at 6:37 pm hi vijaya, yes you can use adsense with any standard compliant wordpress theme. reply kelsey says: feb 20, 2018 at 12:34 pm i love this post it has helped me so much to find a new theme for my blog! reply katrina says: feb 10, 2018 at 3:12 am many thanks for this post! very helpful, and in fact, i found the best theme for my website. reply vaibhav kulkarni says: jan 14, 2018 at 5:03 am nice and very helpful article i selected some as my favourite which i will buy later. reply veronica dsouza says: jan 4, 2018 at 5:19 am thanks for the awesome themes here for beginners. i have a question though… this is my first wp blog… i intend to monetize my blog later. themes like juno, unwind or hestia seems fine. i also intend to deploy adsense to my blog… is it fine to proceed with any of the themes mentioned above or do you suggest any other? please reply reply wpbeginner support says: jan 7, 2018 at 5:49 pm hi veronica, you can use any standard compliant wordpress theme along with adsense. reply mathukutty p. v. says: dec 5, 2017 at 1:10 am i am using nisarag. responsive and good. but adsense skyscraper not showing full..which theme is suitable and fast for my site about motivation. happiness and success articles and videos reply scott says: nov 23, 2017 at 1:31 pm hello, i’m currently using a twentyeleven 3 column layout theme to my website with some small customizing. my website though is wp plugin heavy. i am contemplating a theme update but do not know which one, without a lot more work to it, which i want to avoid. what do you recommend as a seamless update to replace my current theme edition. thoughts? reply wpbeginner support says: nov 23, 2017 at 4:00 pm hi scott, you will need to take precautions to make sure that your theme update goes smoothly. checkout our guide on how to properly switch wordpress theme on your site reply luna m says: oct 19, 2017 at 1:53 am thanks very much, i will look at it closely ! reply luna m says: oct 17, 2017 at 6:46 am hello, thank you so much for this list, it is very helpful ! i have a question please.. how can one know if a theme is “safe” before buying it ? i have run a few names found on wp registry through theme check and it scores poorly. is there a way to know how safe they are ? thanks so much ! reply wpbeginner support says: oct 18, 2017 at 2:31 pm hi luna, please see our guide on how to select the perfect wordpress theme. reply anoop vaish says: oct 11, 2017 at 4:11 am wow good collection reply sirjohntml says: oct 6, 2017 at 5:20 am thanks mate for doing all this. and especially the giveaway ,hopefully the rng may favor me lol x”d once again, thanks. imma go with libreto. looks clean, minimalistic. reply keshu rai says: oct 5, 2017 at 1:48 pm thanks to wpbeginner. you guyz have motivated many people to start thr own blog and whenevr i am in a trouble wiith my blog i can find its solution on your website. please have a look at my blog reply wpbeginner support says: oct 5, 2017 at 2:33 pm hi keshu, we are glad you find wpbeginner useful. good luck with your blog reply sachin says: sep 21, 2017 at 11:04 pm which theme do you use for wpbeginner ? yesterday i hosted my first wordpress blog and i want a good theme for it. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 21, 2017 at 11:18 pm hi sachin, we are using a custom theme made specifically for wpbeginner. good luck with your new wordpress blog. reply ehtisham says: sep 21, 2017 at 11:53 am your collection is just marvelous bro.keep it up.no doubt you’re doing fantastic job reply ahad arzi says: sep 12, 2017 at 1:48 am thanks for the great collection. am more confused to pick the theme for my personal website. so, in this time, your list is very very useful for me to pick the right one. regards, ahad arzi reply janet spelman says: sep 2, 2017 at 11:38 am are there any free themes that are designed for realtors/real estate? i know i would have to get an idx plug in for search capabilities. also, if i have a certain font that i want to use and it is not a default font, how would i be able to use it? thank you! reply nicole louise says: jul 28, 2017 at 1:56 am awesome themes! i mostly used free themes for my experience but for professional work i prefer premium wordpress theme such as magup. reply palashtd says: jul 23, 2017 at 9:49 am hello i want to create a spa care website. i tried hard to find any theme for it but couldn’t. kindly tell me about any free or premium themes for home tuition site thank you reply caroline t lewin says: jul 5, 2017 at 1:43 pm i have a family history site which was done in frontpage, updated with sharepoint, not hosted by me and want to change to another host. suggested themes? reply sheraun says: may 23, 2017 at 2:56 pm also needs to be free. thanks reply sheraun says: may 23, 2017 at 2:55 pm whats the best theme that has: social media icons on top, is responsive, modern, clean & crisp, seo friendly, with large center hero image for personal blog on marketing and travel? thanks so much reply claudia says: may 22, 2017 at 3:19 pm thanks for the list, but i still need some advice. i need a free theme that can do blog posts and can handle songs(audio), and that is woo commerce compatible. i like the look of nisarg, but i am not sure if woo commerce compatible. please kindly advise? reply wpbeginner support says: may 23, 2017 at 12:05 am hey claudia, you can try juno, unwind, or hestia. reply « 1 2 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) wpeka coupon get 25% off on wpeka premium wordpress plugins and themes. oio publisher coupon get $10 off on oio publisher, a robust ad management plugin for wordpress. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.