wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 2k shares share tweet share pin is email marketing a priority for your business in 2020? are you looking for the best email marketing software? choosing the right email marketing service can have a significant impact on the success of your marketing campaign. in this article, we will review the 7 best email marketing services for small businesses. why choosing the best email marketing service is important? email marketing is one of the most cost-effective marketing tools for small businesses. according to the direct marketing association, email marketing on average sees a 4300 percent return on investment (roi) for businesses in the united states. this is because email marketing is easy to manage, gives you full control, and allows you to establish a direct contact with your customers. not convinced on email marketing? see these 6 reasons why building an email list is so important today. it’s important to understand that a lot of your success with email marketing depends entirely on the email marketing software you choose because they are responsible for making sure that your emails actually get delivered. if you aren’t careful, then you will end up paying a lot more money for fewer features and terrible email deliverability rates (which causes you to lose even more money). what to look for in a good email marketing tool? a good email marketing service should enable you to create highly engaging email newsletters with an easy user interface (ideally drag & drop). you should be able to easily send bulk emails that are actually personalized and targeted without a lot of work. this is also known as marketing automation. aside from that, your email marketing service must make it easy to manage your contacts, segment users into groups, and track the performance of your email marketing campaigns. most importantly, a good email marketing service ensures that your emails do not end up in the spam folder. having said that, let’s take a look at some of the most popular email marketing service providers and how they stack up against each other. 1. constant contact constant contact is one of the largest and fastest growing email marketing service in the world. it is also the most easy to use and beginner friendly email marketing service. you can easily manage your email lists, contacts, email templates, marketing calendar, and more. each account gives you access to easy tracking and reporting, built-in social media sharing tools, free image library, list segmentation, facebook ads integration, and a powerful ecommerce integration for shopify stores. their email plus accounts also come with powerful features like email automation, surveys & polls, coupons, online donations, and subject line a/b testing which helps you send targeted emails to maximize your open rate. constant contact offers unmatched support with live chat, phone calls, email, community support, and a vast library of helpful resources. aside from online training, they also offer in-person live seminars across the united states. this allows small businesses to quickly learn the basics of email marketing and start using it to grow their business like a pro. for all the reasons above, we rate constant contact the best email marketing service for small businesses. constant contact has a 60-day free trial (no credit-card required). after that their pricing starts as low as $20/month. wpbeginner users can use our constant contact coupon code to get an additional 20% off. 2. sendinblue sendinblue is a complete sms and email marketing software for businesses. they are one of the fastest growing email marketing platforms in europe. it is an extremely easy to use platform with excellent tools to create beautiful and highly engaging emails. their simple drag and drop tools are perfect for beginners with no experience in email marketing. sendinblue includes beginner-friendly automation tools that allow you to send transactional emails, create workflows, and segment users. it can also select the best time to send bulk emails using their ai algorithms to ensure maximum email deliverability. sendinblue offer a completely free email marketing plan that lets you send up to 300 emails per day, but all your emails will have their branding. paid plans start from $25 per month. you can also include sms to your account, but the pricing will vary based on your sending requirements. they have improved their premium plan to recently include more advanced features like landing page builder, live chat, crm, and facebook ads integration. this means users now get more value for the same price. sendinblue also offers a separate smtp bulk email marketing service which you can use to power automated or transactional emails from your wordpress site. you do not need this for email marketing campaigns, but it’s a nice to have feature if you have a large website, and you want automatic content based emails. 3. drip drip is a powerful email marketing platform for ecommerce, bloggers, and digital marketers. they offer a wide range of tools to make marketing automation, sales funnels, and personalization easy. they offer seamless integration for all popular website builders including wordpress and woocommerce. this allows you to easily add sign up forms to your website and capture more leads. what sets drip apart from the competition like campaign monitor is their intelligent marketing automation tools, smarter email segmenting, list groups, and a visual workflow builder. these features allow you to reach targeted customers in your email list to get more sales. support options at drip include live chat support, webinars, automation training, detailed courses, free guides and excellent documentation. we use drip for several of our businesses because it allows us to send bulk emails while connecting and engaging with every customer on a personal level using their smart ecommerce marketing automation. even though it’s a bit pricey, we believe drip is the best email marketing software for ecommerce websites and business owners who want more advanced features. drip offers a free trial, and their plans starts from $49 / month which includes all their features. 4. convertkit convertkit is a robust email marketing platform for professional bloggers, authors, and marketers. it is extremely easy to use and incredibly powerful. convertkit’s unique feature is that allows you to easily offer content upgrades and incentives with email signup forms. it also comes with easy to manage auto-responders allowing you to send drip emails from their emailing service. with convertkit, you can easily segment subscribers into those who are interested and those who have already purchased. this helps you increase conversions with automated emails that feel more personal. in marketing terms, this is called targeted email marketing. convertkit offers email based support and have extensive knowledge base with great learning material. a lot of convertkit features are specifically designed for creators and professional bloggers that’s why we rate them the best email marketing service for professional bloggers. convertkit offers a 14-day free trial, and their pricing starts from $29/month. they also offer a 30-day refund policy. 5. aweber aweber is one of oldest and most popular email marketing service providers in the world. they offer a wide-range of tools for small and medium sized businesses to manage their email marketing. getting started with aweber is easy. it connects seamlessly to most platforms including wordpress. for detailed instructions, see our ultimate guide on how to connect aweber to wordpress. you get access to ready to use email templates, list management, autoresponders, and email tracking with detailed insights. support options include live chat, phone support, email support, live webinars, and a vast library of how-tos and tutorials. aweber offers a 30-day free trial. after that, their pricing starts from $19/month. you can also signup for quarterly or annual plans to save even more. 6. getresponse getresponse is another very popular email marketing solution. it is extremely easy to use and simplifies email marketing for small businesses. it comes with some amazing marketing automation tools which allow you to create smart automated campaigns. with their drag and drop builder, you can create campaigns, segment contacts, and send content designed for specific groups. these tools help you create effective campaigns to boost your profits. getresponse comes with beautiful responsive forms, landing pages, a/b testing, tracking, and autoresponders. it also integrates with third party lead generation software like optinmonster, salesforce, google docs, zendesk, etc. support is provided by phone, live chat, and email. their help section is full of free learning material including videos, webinars, how-tos, guides, etc. getresponse offers a 30-day free trial. their pricing starts at $15/month. 7. mailchimp mailchimp is one of the most popular email marketing service providers in the world primarily because they offer a forever free email marketing service plan. mailchimp comes with an easy email builder, autoresponders, segmenting contacts into groups, and simple tracking for analytics. it also allows you to setup delivery times based on user’s timezones, and you can setup segmenting based on geolocation. you can easily integrate mailchimp with wordpress, magento, shopify, and many other platforms. if you are using wordpress, then see our ultimate guide to using mailchimp and wordpress for detailed instructions. when it comes to marketing automation features, mailchimp platform is quite limited when compared to other providers in our list such as drip or convertkit. in the recent years, mailchimp has attempted to add many of the “advanced” features, but having tested many of these, they’re not truly advanced. mailchimp support is offered by email, live chat, and a large tutorials knowledge-base. however their support is often slow and no match to the quality of service that you get from constant contact. mailchimp offers a forever free plan which allows you to send 12,000 emails for up to 2,000 subscribers. this plan is fairly limited because you don’t get features like send-time optimization, advanced segmentation, multi-variate testing, etc. you are also required to display their branding in your email. last but not least, support is restricted to email only which is fine if you’re a hobbyist but as a serious business, you need reliable support that you can count on. their paid plans start from $10/month for up to 500 subscribers, and the pricing increases in the increment of 500 subscribers. final thoughts: the best email marketing service there are dozens of email marketing services out there, and we want to make sure you choose the right one for your business needs. below is our expert pick: if you’re a small business, non-profit, or a new blogger, then we recommend using constant contact. their pricing is great, and the support team is absolutely top-notch. their onboarding team will help you find success with email marketing right away. if you run an online store / ecommerce website, then we recommend using drip because its the best ecommerce email marketing software. their personalization and automation features are extremely powerful. a lot of our own business websites use drip. if you’re a professional blogger or content creator, then we recommend using convertkit. they offer an easy to use platform with advanced segmentation and funnels that will help you take your blogging business to the next level. if you’re a business owner who wants a powerful marketing automation tool that combines email marketing, smtp bulk emails, and sms messages, then we recommend using sendinblue. their platform is easy to use, and they allow you to manage both email and sms from a single interface. they also offer a fairly generous forever free plan which makes them the best free email marketing software. pro tip: get more email subscribers, faster! once you have picked an email marketing service for your business, you’ll likely want to start getting more email subscribers. we use and recommend optinmonster. it is a powerful conversion optimization toolkit that helps you turn abandoning website visitors into email subscribers and customers. optinmonster seamlessly integrates with all the best email marketing service that we mentioned above and dozens more. wpbeginner founder, syed balkhi, is also the co-founder of optinmonster. he initially built optinmonster to help grow our own email list. after the launch in 2013, it has tremendously grown in popularity. today optinmonster is being used by some of the largest brands in the world including mcafee, experian, tripadvisor, pinterest, harvard university, pateron, and more. bonus tip: improve your email deliverability all the email newsletter tools that we have shared in this article have great email deliverability rates. however there are few things you can do to make sure that your marketing emails always get delivered. 1. use a professional email address email platforms like gmail, outlook, and others have algorithms that look for spammy behavior. one of them is the sender email address. as a business, it’s important that you use a professional business email address (like yourname@yourcompany.com) and not a generic hotmail or gmail address. this will help make sure that your email deliverability rate is higher than industry average. 2. send targeted emails based on interests it’s very important that you personalize your emails based on user segments. email marketing software like constant contact allows you to easily group your subscribers into segments such as most active, not-active, interested in specific topics, custom segments, etc. this will help your email marketing campaigns have the highest open rate and click through rate which is a big factor in future email deliverability. for more tips, see this ultimate step-by-step email marketing guide with examples to help you create a successful email marketing campaign. email marketing software faqs having helped thousands of users pick the best email marketing software, we have answered quite a lot of questions. below are some of the answers to the most frequently asked questions about email marketing platforms. can i do bulk email marketing from my gmail or outlook? in theory, yes. but this will quickly get your email accounts suspended. g suite and outlook are not made for bulk email sending. they are great solution professional business emails. which is the best free email marketing service? a lot of email marketing services will offer free tiers for limited use. the best free email marketing service is sendinblue because their free plan doesn’t have a limit on the number of subscribers. mailerlite and mailchimp also offer free email marketing service plans. how much does email marketing cost? your email marketing cost will entirely depend on the number of subscribers you have, the number of total emails you send per month, and the email platform you use. on average, a small business email marketing costs is around $20 – $300 per month on email marketing given that they manage their own campaign. if you use an email marketing agency, then your cost might be closer to $500 per month or higher. are there other email marketing platforms that are not listed here? yes, there are literally hundreds of email marketing services out there, but we have not listed them all here. we believe that creating a full email platforms list would create more confusion and cause choice paralysis for non-techy readers. we have tried all the top major email marketing service including many that are not in our email platform lists above such as: mailerlite, activecampaign, hubspot, ontraport, mailjet, campaign monitor, infusionsoft (now keap), klaviyo, marketo, eloqua, pardot by salesforce, sendloop, icontact, emma, totalsend, sharpspring, mailpoet, and more. the top email marketing services that we have chose to include in our list provide the best features for the best price. which are the best email marketing services in your opinion? our top 3 choices for the best email marketing services are: constant contact – best email marketing services for small business. sendinblue – best email and sms marketing platform. drip – best email marketing platform for ecommerce. we hope this article gave you a good overview of the best email marketing services for your business. you may also want to see our list of 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 2k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 140 commentsleave a reply stefan ch says: feb 22, 2020 at 4:08 pm i’d say that regardless of which esp one picks we should always make sure that deliverability is ok. i.e. spf, dkim, dmarc records set up correctly, and blacklists are checked upon regularly. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 24, 2020 at 11:40 am thanks for sharing your recommendations reply pschool says: jan 3, 2020 at 8:56 am thank you for providing email marketing tools and software provider for email marketing. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 3, 2020 at 10:13 am you’re welcome, glad our recommendations could be helpful reply ranojit kumar says: oct 2, 2019 at 12:58 pm i used mailchimp for my tiny startup e-commerce website. i think it’s best. i think it best for those who are looking for a lower price. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 3, 2019 at 9:13 am thanks for sharing your recommendation reply jochen says: sep 26, 2019 at 9:01 am optinmonster is a nice tool for collecting leads and mails. i am just playing around with it on a e-commerce page. the great thing is, that i can use it on every blog or shop system. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 26, 2019 at 11:47 am thanks for sharing your recommendation reply dilraj gurjar says: sep 26, 2019 at 7:13 am sir can you please tell me some strategy to grow my email list because it’s no growing fastely. it is running slow like per day 2 or 3 subscriber reply wpbeginner support says: sep 26, 2019 at 11:39 am for growing your email list, you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/12-tested-and-easy-ways-to-grow-your-email-list-faster/ reply mark jc says: sep 25, 2019 at 8:59 pm thanks for the article. there are two departments in my company which uses constant contact whole tho other uses mailchimp. i find mailchimp better for a bigger campaign. great article and thanks for the comparisons. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 26, 2019 at 11:07 am thanks for sharing your experience with the services reply vitus says: sep 25, 2019 at 5:27 pm thanks for the wonderful comparison. still new in email list building. would come handy. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 26, 2019 at 11:11 am you’re welcome, glad our article could be helpful reply melvin adame says: sep 25, 2019 at 4:44 pm i ended up going with drip after being with mailchimp for 3 years and it has been the best decision i could make. i have to thank the author of this article!! thank you reply wpbeginner support says: sep 26, 2019 at 11:12 am you’re welcome, glad we could recommend more options to you reply karen tooker says: aug 31, 2019 at 2:37 pm great comparison article. i’ve heard great things about aweber and wordpress sites and auto responders. nice to be able to compare in one place. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 4, 2019 at 9:31 am glad our article could be helpful reply thomas says: aug 30, 2019 at 11:57 am while i hear alot of good things about sendinblue and convertkit, i heartily recommend mailchimp to small businesses, email marketing entrepeneurs just starting out or if you just don’t have a clue, are new to email marketing but want to find something affordable where you can start out. then mailchimp is for you. they miss some functions that other companies offer but the easiness and the “free up to 2 000 contacts” makes it e great starting point. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 30, 2019 at 3:27 pm thanks for sharing your recommendation reply kerry hunt says: aug 27, 2019 at 3:48 pm thank you for this excellent article. i’m looking for an esp that is easy to use and allows affiliate links. i understand some esps don’t allow affiliate marketing in your emails. i’d love to hear which do or don’t. thank you! reply wpbeginner support says: aug 28, 2019 at 9:14 am most if not all email service providers should allow for affiliate links. they just do not allow affiliate marketing and by that, it means emails only for recommending products rather than keeping up a relationship with your subscribers for your content reply shakeel anjum says: aug 27, 2019 at 2:44 am thank you wpb for providing the details of best email marketing services. i’m currently using mailchimp and i’m currently happy with it. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 10:03 am you’re welcome, glad you’re happy with mailchimp reply kevin norberg says: aug 26, 2019 at 10:23 pm hey, thanks for supporting us out here! really appreciate the quality training and content. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 9:39 am you’re welcome, glad out tutorials can be helpful reply adi rainbow says: aug 26, 2019 at 1:44 pm nice blog for the email marketing! reply wpbeginner support says: aug 26, 2019 at 1:48 pm thank you reply trent w says: jul 30, 2019 at 1:10 am nice page really helpful and i have a question 1st ) if you choose a service and decide to change do you keep your list or have to start over reply wpbeginner support says: jul 30, 2019 at 10:18 am most if not all of the email marketing services give you the ability to export your list of users to transfer to the new platform. reply naum says: jul 17, 2019 at 11:52 am can u guys check the maijet link because when i click it doesnt take me to the maijet website, i think the link is at the forth paragraph. but thanks for the article it is very helpuful reply wpbeginner support says: jul 18, 2019 at 9:59 am from testing the link appears to be working but we will be sure to keep an eye out should the links have any trouble reply okereke divine says: jul 5, 2019 at 11:01 am wpbiginner – this is the first blog that i learnt how to create wordpress back then in 2016. today, i have also learnt a lot about the email marketing. i really appreciate you guys existence and yes, happy birthday reply wpbeginner support says: jul 8, 2019 at 1:10 pm thank you, glad we could be helpful over such a long time reply kashyap says: jul 3, 2019 at 5:30 am nice blog for the email marketing reply wpbeginner support says: jul 3, 2019 at 11:44 am thank you reply sikha mishra says: jun 25, 2019 at 7:02 am very good list, added to my favorites. i like that you broke down the questions by topics. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 26, 2019 at 10:40 am thank you, glad you like how we broke down our article reply david says: jun 22, 2019 at 12:44 pm mailchimp does seem to be peeling back what it offers, and over time is restricting their plans more and more… however i do believe they announced they were adding automation to the free plan a while back. i’m not sure your report on them is accurate in that sense. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 24, 2019 at 11:46 am we will certainly keep an eye on any product in our articles and update the article should our opinion change reply donna says: jun 7, 2019 at 4:09 pm please i need a email provider that could drop gmail spamming to inbox…… reply wpbeginner support says: jun 10, 2019 at 11:30 am if you mean you don’t want your messages being sent to the spam in gmail’s inbox then any of these services can help with that and if you reach out, also have recommendations to help prevent your message from being sent to spam. reply sanjay sajeev says: jun 6, 2019 at 8:12 am very informative list. i am planning to buy any of convert kit, aweber, or constant contact. but i need to know whether these email services provide landing pages and a/b testing tools? since i am completely new in email marketing, i have no idea. kindly reply on this. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 6, 2019 at 10:41 am there are different implementations for each email marketing provider. if you reach out to their support with what you would like to set up, they should be able to let you know if that is available with their platform. reply alian says: apr 5, 2019 at 11:50 am i used mailchimp for some time and then switched to tabellarius. both give you very powerful tools under your belt if you know how to use them correctly. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 8, 2019 at 11:04 am thank you for sharing the service you’re currently using reply doug graver says: mar 8, 2019 at 6:27 pm i send bulk emails to existing customers about three times per year. usually 250-1500 at a time. what service would you recommend? i currently use myemma and am charged monthly whether i use the service or not. thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 11, 2019 at 11:16 am you may want to start by looking at mailchimp and drip depending on your specific needs. reply janet says: jun 4, 2019 at 3:36 pm i switched from emma too, and am stuck paying their monthly bill regardless of giving 30 days notice. i missed cancelling by the auto renewal, for which no notice was given. reply kesha lazenby says: mar 4, 2019 at 9:16 am besides mailchimp does any of these amazing platforms have a ba agreement or will be able to sign one? this is for a foot and ankle clinic. thanks for any feedback reply wpbeginner support says: mar 4, 2019 at 1:53 pm yes, however, you would want to reach out to them for specifics on if it is still available. reply mikhil says: feb 23, 2019 at 2:44 am great work syed balkhi. thank you for giving those great ideas. keep up going reply wpbeginner support says: feb 25, 2019 at 2:56 pm glad you like our articles, we’ll continue to make them reply scott webb says: feb 13, 2019 at 8:19 am the biggest issue i have yet to resolve is the majority of clients i work with have customer lists in the the thousands, but have never embraced email marketing. through personal experience with several of the platforms listed here they will not let you load your current customer list and start emailing. even if the lists are validated and cleaned through a source like neverbounce. with the new gdpr rules, they only want emails that have current, ongoing engagement. so in other words, even though you have been in business for years and have a list of current emails from current and past customers, you cannot load them in to these platforms with any success. this makes it very difficult for legacy businesses that now want to start communicating with all their prospects and customers. reply editorial staff says: feb 15, 2019 at 12:04 pm hi scott, yes that is correct. most platforms will not let you upload large customer lists if you do not have specific opt-in dates. however if you can provide the data when the user opted in to receive email notifications from you, then you would be able to import the list. these rules may vary based on different providers, but this is exactly the process for switching email service providers (you have to import customer list in the new provider). reply biplab mahanta says: feb 9, 2019 at 3:30 am great your post on successful email marketing campaign. it helps me a lot to understand successful email marketing. keep up the good work. excited to see your upcoming posts. thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 11, 2019 at 2:40 pm thank you, glad our post could help reply a. harris says: jan 23, 2019 at 10:24 pm great list of providers for permission based email marketing. if you are a small business who incorporates purchased email lists into your strategy? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 24, 2019 at 11:05 am we don’t recommend purchasing email list as that would be spamming the users who did not consent to be added to your email list and many other negatives against it. reply kwabena okyire appianing says: jan 22, 2019 at 9:55 am this is a great list currently, i am deciding which one i should go considering covertkit, mailchimp and mailerlite reply wpbeginner support says: jan 23, 2019 at 1:27 pm thanks, hope our article can help you choose the best one for you reply noel guilford says: jan 15, 2019 at 8:27 am interested to know why you haven’t reviewed active campaign which i use for one of my businesses and find to be very good. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 15, 2019 at 2:46 pm we had to restrict the list to 7 providers, so it’s easy for people to choose. activecampaign is a powerful solution and so is pardot or hubspot. but those are bit more advanced solutions than what a small business would need in our opinion. reply david says: jan 14, 2019 at 6:51 pm hi, when i go to the drip website, i don’t see an option for drip offers a free account for up to 100 subscribers? reply editorial staff says: jan 15, 2019 at 7:28 am hey david, if you go on their website and type in the quote calculator that you have 100 subscribers, it’ll show you the option for free signup. reply wouter says: jan 14, 2019 at 4:57 pm i am surprised that you didn’t include activecampaign in the list. reply editorial staff says: jan 15, 2019 at 7:29 am hi wouter, yes, we had to restrict the list to 7 providers, so it’s easy for people to choose. activecampaign is a powerful solution and so is pardot or hubspot. but those are bit more advanced solutions than what a small business would need in our opinion. reply david says: jan 14, 2019 at 9:59 am i recently switched from mailchimp to mailerlite and have been pleased with the results. i ran into a small problem and the customer service was excellent and responded very quickly (i’m using the free plan). reply editorial staff says: jan 14, 2019 at 2:03 pm thanks for sharing your experience david reply tahid uzun says: jan 8, 2019 at 6:48 am basically, all the email marketing service which improves our business so thanks for your of your post reply wpbeginner support says: jan 8, 2019 at 10:56 am glad our article was helpful reply giuseppe says: jan 7, 2019 at 9:07 am very useful information, tx a lot but the main question is kinda not answered : i know that depending these companies have their servers, i.e. states or asia , the emails tend to end faster in the spam folder . well at least it was the case a couple of years back. can someone confirm/help ? thanks a mil! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 7, 2019 at 11:56 pm hi, location of the mail server has no effect on whether your email ends up in spam or not. reply abhinandan sharma bhardwaj says: dec 3, 2018 at 4:47 am great blog about email marketing. worth reading this. really useful reply allan mantaring says: nov 5, 2018 at 8:01 pm this article is help me to decide what will i used for long term. as a marketer building a list is very important. thank you. reply easysandesh says: oct 24, 2018 at 5:28 am really good information. thanks for sharing this information. these days peoples are using an email marketing service for business purpose. reply cerebrum awomude says: sep 11, 2018 at 1:30 am great article here. pls. i’m a little bit confused. all i just need is a vendor that has a landing page feature, allows for autoresponder, allows for promotion of genuine mlm and affiliate business, and cost effective for beginner. i tried mailchimp but got suspended just within two weeks with them, and the customer care pretty bad and arrogant. please advice reply meethu sharma says: sep 4, 2018 at 5:43 am thank you for giving good infromation reply gary carlos says: sep 3, 2018 at 9:27 am really good information, thanks for the comparison these days we are using aweber and mailchimp for our campaign process but your list make us thought again. reply paul odekirk says: jul 23, 2018 at 10:00 am i’m not happy at all with mailchimp. has anyone found the same problems with mailchimp as i have? i find that many of my list members unsubscribe from my list daily. i know these people ands contact them and they say they have not unsubscribed. twice i even found my own email taken off the list. when i look into the mailchimp list spam is the reason for the person’s unsubscription. over the years i’ve been on mailchimp i’ve contacted support and i’ve done everything i can but nothing has changed. i’m now looking to move to another company. reply suzanne carter says: jun 20, 2018 at 4:48 pm hi. thank you for the great information. i currently have mail chimp and it is set up to sync between my wordpress site and mail chimp. the problem is it isn’t and new subscribers to my blog are not being updated onto the list on the mail chimp end. i have tried several fixes and nothing is working. i am unsure what to do now after endless googling it may be time to quit mail chimp. seems others are having this problem also. reply kartik sharma says: jun 14, 2018 at 12:25 am hi, thanks for sharing the best email marketing services available in the market right now. i will love to begin with mail chimp. reply kristen says: jun 9, 2018 at 2:25 pm i also had a similar experience with get response when sending out my 1st email using a direct sales list i had from my past job… banned me on the spot and poor customer service. they made me feel like a spammer when my email i crafted in no way was!!!! reply getresponse says: may 31, 2018 at 3:16 pm thank you for listing us! we hope you’re satisfied with our platform. reply mary says: may 19, 2018 at 8:12 pm which one of these lets you filter eu and non eu subscribers in order to segment the list? the gdpr goes into effect in a few days and aweber has no means of segmenting the list that way. reply raj kapadia says: mar 8, 2018 at 12:00 pm i’v used mailchimp but my emails go in promotion box of users whereas when i use getresponse the same email lands in primary. what could be the solution? reply john leavy says: jan 25, 2018 at 4:15 pm we’ve used mailchimp for years and are very satisfied. they continue to enhance the product beyond our needs. glad they’re always ahead of the curve. reply « 1 2 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) churnly coupon get 30% off on churnly wordpress automated churn-busting plugin. gator website builder coupon get 55% off on gator drag & drop website builder by hostgator. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.