wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 7 best platforms to easily sell digital products (compared) 7 best platforms to easily sell digital products (compared) last updated on march 18th, 2020 by editorial staff 105 shares share tweet share pin do you want to sell digital products online? perhaps you’re planning to create ebooks, online courses, software, or something else entirely. regardless of which type of digital product you create, you will need an easy to use platform to sell your digital products and deliver them to your customers. in this article, we will share the best platforms to sell digital products online. as we go through them, we’ll explain their pros and cons to help you choose the best option for your needs. why you need a platform to sell digital products if you are selling a single product, then you can probably create a contact form and accept credit card payments using stripe or paypal. however, if you are selling multiple products and need an efficient way for users to access downloads, then you need a proper platform to sell digital products. these platforms provide you with all the features you’ll need to grow your online business, including: easy ways to accept payments using multiple payment methods deliver product downloads to the customers you can provide an account management area for customers you can sell subscriptions based access to downloads you can offer courses, lessons, quizzes, etc. built-in tools to display and promote products on your website that being said, let’s take a look at some of the best platforms to sell digital and downloadable products online. 1. memberpress memberpress is the best wordpress membership plugin. it allows you to sell subscriptions and easily control access to different parts of your website. you can create subscriptions for your digital or downloadable products, so customers can access them from their accounts after purchasing the membership. pros memberpress integrates with major payment gateways like paypal, stripe, and authorize.net. it also integrates with email marketing services like constant contact, convertkit, and others. you can use memberpress to create as many members only pages or sections on your site. you could deliver your paid content in the form of posts, pages, or downloads that are accessed through a protected “members only” page. there’s no limit to how many different membership levels you can set up in memberpress. you can define these however you like. most people find memberpress fairly easy to use. if you get stuck, just check out the step by step instructions in our ultimate guide to creating a wordpress membership site. memberpress allows for one-off payments or recurring memberships. you can even set up a free trial membership, create coupon codes to offer discounts, or release drip content to convert more sales. there are loads of reports available, so you can see which products and membership levels are selling well. you can use memberpress with any wordpress theme, but we recommend the following wordpress membership themes since they look beautiful. it can also be easily integrated with other wordpress plugins. cons memberpress is geared towards sellings subscriptions and memberships and may not be well-suited for businesses that just want to sell one-off downloads. memberpress is incredibly powerful and flexible. you may need to read their getting started tutorials to familiarize yourself with all the features. pricing memberpress costs $149 at the basic level which is enough for most users who’re just getting started. you can upgrade to their plus or pro plan unlock other powerful features. 2. woocommerce woocommerce is the best ecommerce platform in the world. it’s a free wordpress plugin, and you can use it to sell both physical and digital products. pros woocommerce itself is free, but you’ll need a wordpress website which requires a domain name and web hosting. you can use it to sell both physical goods as well as digital products. there are lots of woocommerce plugins and extensions that you can use and many of them are free, or have a free version. there are plenty of beautiful woocommerce templates that will make your store look professional and boost sales. woocommerce has dozens of payment gateways available as add-ons including all the top payment services. cons woocommerce can seem a little overwhelming at times as there are so many options. additional paid plugins or tools can increase your ecommerce website costs. however, you can easily control it by using free options whenever possible. pricing although woocommerce itself is free, you might want to pay to add extra functionality. that might mean buying some premium plugins or a premium woocommerce theme. we recommend using either bluehost or siteground because they offer the best woocommerce hosting at affordable rates. after that you can follow our complete woocommerce tutorial to get started. 3. learndash learndash is the best lms (learning management system) plugin for wordpress plugin. it allows you to easily sell online courses on your website. pros learndash supports a huge range of pricing models. these include one time sales, subscriptions, memberships, bundles, and more. there’s lots of help available, including video tutorials, community forums, and documentation. there’s also a support team. if you’re running an online course, you’ll find loads of helpful features. these include certificates and badges that you can use as incentives for your students. you can create your own forums, specific to your courses, so that students can interact with one another. there’s a 30-day money-back guarantee, so you can get a refund if you decide that learndash isn’t the right option for you. cons you can only contact the support team by submitting a ticket. there’s no live chat or phone option. there’s no free version or trial period available. pricing the basic plan costs $199 at full price. you’ll almost certainly find that it’s on sale for $159 when you visit the site, though. if you want to use learndash on several site, the plus packet lets you install it on up to 10 sites. that costs $229 full price, though it’s normally on sale for $189. for more details, see our guide on how to create and sell online courses with learndash. often users use learndash in combination with memberpress to get the most value. 4. easy digital downloads easy digital downloads does what you might expect from the name. it lets you sell digital downloads from your site. again, it’s a wordpress plugin, so you’ll need a domain name and web hosting. pros you can use easy digital downloads for free, just like you can with woocommerce. if you want extra features, there are lots of free and paid extensions available. easy digital downloads is specifically designed for selling digital products. if you have no intention of selling physical products, then it could be a great fit for you. there’s plenty of support available. this includes support forums, videos, and tutorials. if you’re a premium user, you can get priority support. you can use the easy digital downloads shortcodes to display your products anywhere you want, such as in a blog post. cons there aren’t all that many wordpress themes out there that are designed specifically for use with easy digital downloads. easy digital downloads is free but you may need paid extensions to add extra features. this may increase your costs. pricing the basic version of easy digital downloads is free. if you want more features, then you will need their extensions. some of them are free and others are paid addons. you can also opt for one of the pricing plans, which are billed yearly. these give access to email support and various extras through included extensions. they start at $99/year. 5. restrict content pro restrict content pro is the paid version of the restrict content plugin. it’s a wordpress membership plugin produced by the same team that’s behind easy digital downloads. pros restrict content pro is really easy to get started with. even if you’ve had little experience of wordpress, you should find it fairly straightforward. restrict content pro works seamlessly with easy digital downloads. if you want to use both plugins on your site, it’s easy to do so. it comes with a lot of built-in integrations, like stripe, paypal, mailchimp, woocommerce, and more. you can create as many different membership levels as you want, including free and trial memberships. your customers can move between subscription levels and only pay the difference. this happens automatically and could save you a lot of admin time. you can easily view reports on your earnings, membership numbers, and more. there’s an “unlimited” plan available which includes lifetime updates and supports for a single one-off fee. cons the free version of the plugin doesn’t handle payments. you’ll need to upgrade to pro if you want people to pay to register. some of the most useful addons aren’t included in the personal or plus plans. these include the ability to drip content, which most membership plugins include as a basic feature. there’s no phone or live chat support, even at the higher pricing tiers. you have to submit a support ticket instead. although there’s a 30 day refund period, you can only get a refund if you can explain why the plugin won’t work for you. pricing there’s a free version of the plugin available, called restrict content. the restrict content pro plugin costs from $99/year, which comes with 13 free add-ons. 6. shopify shopify is an all in one platform for ecommerce. this means it handles everything for you such as your site hosting, updates, and security. you just pay a single monthly fee. pros shopify is really easy to get started with. you don’t need to buy hosting or even a domain name. you just sign up for an account with shopify and start creating your store. you can sell both physical and digital products using shopify. this could be useful if you might want to offer physical products in the future. there are loads of apps available for shopify. these add functionality to your store. most of these will cost you money, but some are free integrations with other software that you might be paying for, such as optinmonster. you can pick from lots of different shopify themes (templates) for your site, or even buy a premium theme from the shopify themes store. there’s 24/7 support available through live chat, phone, email, and twitter. there’s also lots of documentation, plus video tutorials and support forums. cons you can’t easily integrate shopify with wordpress, so it’s not a good option if you want to sell directly from your existing website. shopify has a built-in payment system called shopify payments. if you want to use third-party payment gateways, like paypal or amazon payments, shopify charges an extra 2% fee on these transactions. pricing shopify costs $29/month for the basic plan. this gives you access to the majority of features that you’re likely to want, apart from reports and gift cards. those are available on the next tier up, at $79/month. 7. teachable teachable is a platform where you can create your own online courses. it hosts your course for you, so you don’t need a website in order to use it. pros teachable is easy to get started with. it has a straightforward dashboard to guide you through the process. there’s a generous free plan available, so you can get started without paying anything. this plan lets you have unlimited courses and students, and you can have a discussion forum and basic quizzes too. it’s easy to arrange and organize your content in teachable using the drag and drop interface. you can upload your own logo, images, text, colors, and so on to customize how your teachable sales pages looks. teachable can handle lots of different file types. it does a particularly good job of dealing with videos, which should look great whatever device your student is using. there are great analytics that can show you how your students are doing. you can even track individual students’ progress. you can communicate with students directly from your teachable platform. cons if you want to customize your course homepage using the power editor, you’ll need to understand html and css code. teachable is designed for courses. it’s not really going to work for you if you want to sell something like an ebook or software. pricing teachable’s free plan doesn’t cost anything. however, you will pay $1 plus 10% for every paid course that you sell. that means that if you have a course costing $200, you’ll pay teachable $21 on each sale. the cheapest plan is $29/month. if you’re on this plan, you’ll also be charged an additional 5% on each sale. to avoid paying any commission at all, you’ll need to be on the professional plan for $79/month. choosing the best platform for your needs the best platform to sell digital products depends entirely on your needs. if you want to sell subscription-based digital products, premium content, or pay-per-view website, then memberpress is the best option. if your products include ebooks, music, or software, then easy digital downloads might well be all you need. if you want to sell an online course, pick a platform like learndash or teachable. these are specifically designed for online course creators, and it’s easy to use them to create a professional looking course. finally, if you’re also selling physical products, or might want to do so in the future, go with woocommerce or shopify. both of these options make it easy to sell both digital and physical goods. we hope this article has helped you compare the best platforms to sell digital products. you may also want to see our guide on the best wordpress plugins and our proven tips to grow your website traffic. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 105 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. comments congratulations, you have the opportunity to be the first commenter on this article. have a question or suggestion? please leave a comment to start the discussion. leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) aweber coupon get 100% off for your first month with aweber. start your first month for free. designevo coupon get 25% off on designevo premium logo making service. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.