home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo become a top blogger non-fiction by kristel staci how video content has revolutionized the marketing of products and services is for everyone to see. videos are not a recent invention, but they have today increased in their power to attract and engage more than ever before. according to a recent article by blogging.org, 63% of businesses have begun to use video content marketing, and up to 57% of all u.s. traffic online comes from smartphones and mobile tablet devices — which is also where and how most video content is being consumed. whether you’re a big corporation or a small mom and pop business, you should definitely include video content to propel your marketing. using video content in your marketing is a surefire you to boost engagement and seo of your website. if you run a blog, videos can help you drive more engagement to it and increase lead generation as a result. given below are seven benefits to get you started to create video content for increasing blog engagement and improving seo. #1. search engines love video search engine algorithms function in a way that ranks videos higher in search results. all major search engines like to serve users with content which has higher engagement. a website which has videos embedded into its content is more likely to show up in search engine results than those that are completely text-based. videos can quickly increase the time spent on site by a substantial margin. apart from publishing videos on your website, you can share them via youtube as well as promote them through various social media channels. all of this together will take the seo of your website to the next level. #2. video can explain every topic or idea you must have seen explainer videos on the homepage of numerous websites. businesses use these videos to show people how they can use a specific product or services. even if the topic is a difficult one, you can use videos to explain it in a simple and effective manner. animated videos can easily squeeze new life into a boring or complex topic and make it easy for people to understand. if you have a well-structured process in place for video production, you can create quality video content that will quickly attract and engage people. #3. video builds trust what video does best is that it humanizes your business. no matter what industry you operate in, you need to understand the fact that people want to see a genuine version of your business. and video is a tool that you can use to communicate with the audience on a deeper level and earn their trust. people may listen to what you have to say, but they’ll act on your advice only if they trust you. if you plan to build credibility among your target audience, you should not forget to create video content. just let your personality come out naturally in your videos. #4. video and mobile are made for each other check out some of the mobile video marketing statistics and you’ll know how mobile and video go hand in hand. over 50% of all video content is viewed on mobile. according to invodo, 92% of mobile video viewers pass on videos to others. of all the video views that twitter gets, 90% comes from a mobile device. over the last few years, the number of smartphone users has gone up considerably and people have a habit of watching videos on the go. by investing in video content, you can tap into this ever-growing audience and maximize results from your marketing. #5. video is super easy to consume least effort is required to absorb video content. today, people are pressed for time more than ever, busy fulfilling all kinds of obligations in their lives. reading and comprehension takes up a lot of time, more so when the content is regarding the use of a product or service. video content offers businesses and marketers an excellent way to display a product in action. and viewers find it super easy to consume all the content because it doesn’t require them to go through long pieces of text word for word. this adds more effectiveness to video marketing. #6. video is exploding on social media all popular social media platforms have specifically designed their features to push for video content. facebook has launched many new video-centric features like 360 video and live video whereas instagram has instagram stories. twitter has periscope to help users create live videos. if you are a video creator, social media is definitely your best playground. all you need to keep in mind is to pack your videos with real value, fun elements and emotion. videos generate a lot of social shares. the more times your video is shared, the more traffic you can generate for your website. #7. videos can expand your online visibility having a website and a blog to represent your business isn’t enough. you need to use multiple marketing techniques to get the word about your business out there and attract more customers as a result. whether it’s search engines or social media, you need to increase the visibility of your business as much as you can. thankfully, video marketing offers you an excellent way to actually show the world who you are and what you do and that too in an interesting way. among other popular social networks, you have youtube, the world’s second most popular social network, as well to share your videos with your audience at large. use video content to amplify the reach of your business and engage your audience on a deeper level to succeed. if you plan to drive engagement to your blog and enhance the seo of your website, you should definitely use videos. video marketing isn’t just for big companies to benefit from. it’s now affordable and within each reach of small businesses. equipped with a couple of basic resources, you can easily create professional-looking videos to attract and engage your target audience. tweet pin share related posts how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer by vartika kashyap about the author kristel staci ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here make real money from your blogging – today, not in three year’s time the blogger's guides - complete four pack grab your guides here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >