wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 2.2k shares share tweet share pin creating regular wordpress backups is the best thing you can do for your website security. backups give you peace of mind and can save you in catastrophic situations such as when your site gets hacked or you accidentally lock yourself out. there are several free and paid wordpress backup plugins and most of them are fairly easy to use. in this article, we will share the 7 best backup plugins for wordpress. important: while many wordpress hosting providers offer limited backup services, we always recommend our users to not rely solely on them. at the end of the day, it is your responsibility to keep regular backups of your website. if you are not already backing up your wordpress website, then you should pick one of these 7 best wordpress backup plugins and start using it right away. 1. updraftplus updraftplus is the most popular free wordpress backup plugin available on the internet. it is used by more than 2 million websites. updraftplus allows you to create a complete backup of your wordpress site and store it on the cloud or download to your computer. the plugin supports scheduled backups as well as on-demand backups. you also have the option to choose which files you want to backup. it can automatically upload your backups to dropbox, google drive, s3, rackspace, ftp, sftp, email, and several other cloud storage services (see our step by step guide on how to backup & restore your wordpress site with updraftplus). besides backing up each wordpress website, updraftplus also allows you to easily restore backups directly from your wordpress admin panel. updraftplus also has a premium version with add-ons to migrate or clone websites, database search and replace, multisite support, and several other features. the premium version also gets you access to priority support. pricing: free (updraftpremium personal for $70) review: updratplus is the most loved wordpress backup plugin in the market. it has over 2 million active installs and 4.9 out of 5 star rating average. while the free version has a lot of features, we recommend upgrading to updraftplus premium to unlock all powerful backup features. 2. vaultpress (jetpack backups) at wpbeginner, we use vaultpress to back up our website. vaultpress was founded by matt mullenweg (wordpress co-founder) and his team at automattic. although it started as an independent plugin, vaultpress is now a part of automattic’s another product called jetpack. you will need a jetpack subscription plan to use vaultpress. there are multiple pricing plans with different set of features. vaultpress plugin offers automated real-time cloud backup solution starting at $3.50 per month. you can easily setup vaultpress backups and restore from backups within few clicks. the higher plans of jetpack also offer security scans and several other powerful features. there are a few downsides of using vaultpress. first, it is a recurring expense that can add up if you have multiple wordpress sites because you pay per site. second, you will have to subscribe to jetpack, get a wordpress.com account, and install the jetpack plugin on your site. lastly, backups are stored for only 30-days on the lower plans. if you want an unlimited backup archive, then you would have to pay the $29 per month per website which is significantly more expensive for beginners when compared to other solutions listed here. we are still using vaultpress because we got grandfathered in at their older pricing which was a lot more favorable. even at the higher price, vaultpress is completely worth it due to the stellar reputation of automattic. pricing: from $39 per year for jetpack personal plan review: vaultpress as part of the popular jetpack plugin gives good value for money. if you’re already using jetpack for other features like jetpack cdn for photos, social media promotion, etc, then it’s an easy pick for you. 3. backupbuddy backupbuddy is one of the most popular premium wordpress backup plugins used by over half a million wordpress sites. it allows you to easily schedule daily, weekly, and monthly backups. with backupbuddy, you can automatically store your backups in cloud storage services like dropbox, amazon s3, rackspace cloud, ftp, stash (their cloud service), and even email it to yourself. if you use their stash service, then you also have the ability to do real-time backups. the biggest advantage of using backupbuddy is that it is not a subscription-based service, so there is no monthly fee. you can use the plugin on the number of websites mentioned in your plan. you also get access to premium support forums, regular updates, and 1gb of backupbuddy stash storage to store your backups. in addition, their ithemes sync feature lets you manage up to 10 wordpress site from a single dashboard. you can even use backupbuddy to duplicate, migrate and restore websites. pricing: $52 for blogger plan (1 site license) review: backupbuddy is a cost-effective premium wordpress backup solution for you. it has full set of features you’ll need to backup, restore and move a wordpress site. in the nutshell, it’s a powerful updraftplus and vaultpress alternative that you can use. 4. boldgrid backup boldgrid backup is an automated wordpress backup solution by boldgrid, which is a website builder powered by wordpress. it allows you to easily create your website backups, restore your site after it crashes, and you can even use it to move your site when switching hosts. you can set up automated backups or manually create backups with one-click. boldgrid backup comes with an automated fault protection feature which automatically creates a backup of your site before it updates. if an update fails, it automatically rolls back your wordpress site to the last backup. it’s a great feature which protects you against update errors. with boldgrid backup, you can store up to 10 backup archives on your dashboard and more in a remote storage locations like amazon s3, ftp or sftp. pricing: $60 per year (includes all of boldgrid premium tools & services) review: boldgrid backup is a simple wordpress backup plugin that you can use to create your website backups. the advantage of using this plugin is the bundle of other powerful tools you’ll get with the purchase of this plugin. 5. blogvault blogvault is another popular wordpress backup service for wordpress. it’s a software as a service (saas) solution rather than just a wordpress plugin. it creates offsite backups independently on blogvault servers, so there will be a zero load on your server. blogvault creates automatic backup of your website on a daily basis and also allows you to manually create unlimited on-demand backups. it features smart incremental backups that sync only incremental changes for minimal server load. this ensures optimal performance for your site. besides backups, it helps you to recover your website easily. you can store 90 days backup archive, so you can recover your site from any mishap. it also has a built-in staging site feature to let you test your website easily. plus, it provides an easy option to migrate your website to another host. blogvault features seem promising however pricing seems a bit expensive when compared to other plugins above. you’ll need to pay $89 for the basic plan which offers a 1 site license. pricing: $89 per year for personal plan (1 site license) review: blogvault is an easy to use wordpress backup solution. it creates offsite backups, so your website server will not be loaded with your backups. the pricing seems a bit high for small businesses. 6. backwpup backwpup is a free plugin that allows you to create complete wordpress backups for free and store it on the cloud (dropbox, amazon s3, rackspace, etc), ftp, email, or on your computer. it is extremely easy to use and allows you to schedule automatic backups according to your site’s update frequency. restoring a wordpress site from backup is also very simple. the backwpup pro version comes with priority support, ability to store backups on google drive, and some other cool features. pricing: free (premium plan is also available) review: used by over 600,000 websites, backwpup is a great alternative to other backup plugins in the list. the premium version of the plugin adds more powerful features including easy and quick website restoration from the backend with a standalone app. 7. duplicator as the name suggests, duplicator is a popular wordpress plugin used to migrate wordpress sites. however it also has backup features. it does not allow you to create automated scheduled backups which makes it less than ideal primary wordpress backup solution for a regularly maintained site. pricing: free review: duplicator lets you create manual backups of your wordpress site easily. if your web host creates regular backups, you can use this plugin to create backups to use on staging environment. it’s a great site migration plugin. final thoughts each wordpress backup plugin in our list has their pros and cons, but all of them offer complete wordpress file backup as well as full database backup features. we use vaultpress for two main reasons. it is extremely easy to use, and it offers real-time incremental backups. what this means is that instead of backing up all of your files every day or every hour, it only creates a backup of what has been updated literally within minutes of the update. this is ideal for a large website like ours because it allows us to use our server resources efficiently. however, if you run a small to medium size website and hate paying monthly fees, then we recommend the popular updraftplus plugin. it comes with all the powerful features like backup encryption, encrypted backup transport, and tons of cloud storage options. whichever wordpress backup plugin you end up choosing, please do not store your backups on the same server as your website. by doing that, you are putting all of your eggs in one basket. if your server’s hardware fails or worst you get hacked, then you don’t have a backup which defeats the purpose of setting up regular backups. this is why we highly recommend storing your backups on a third-party storage service like dropbox, amazon s3, google drive, etc. that’s all. we hope that this list helped you pick the best wordpress backup plugin for your site. you may also want to see our step by step wordpress security guide for beginners. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 2.2k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to start your own podcast (step by step) revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 165 commentsleave a reply scott washburn says: nov 9, 2019 at 11:33 am thank you! great stuff! reply wpbeginner support says: nov 11, 2019 at 10:16 am you’re welcome reply k. luu says: oct 18, 2019 at 4:31 am i am sunsetting my website hence i would like to save all the pages & posts in one go and access my content later on my computer. is this possible to do with these plugins e.g. updraftplus? reply wpbeginner support says: oct 18, 2019 at 10:32 am yes as long as you back up both your content and your database reply karen a. traer says: feb 12, 2019 at 9:59 am thank you; this is exactly the type of information i look for from wpbegginer. much appreciation for those who share their stories and insights, as well. i am on a shoestring budget so understanding how powerful free alternatives are is a godsend. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 12, 2019 at 12:58 pm glad our recommendations can help reply josef dalal says: feb 11, 2019 at 7:49 am hi, thanks for the info. must say that i use updraftplus on most websites. also, these days moved for maintained hosting and found that creating backups from the server it’s also a good idea. for people with the paranoia of losing data. thanks again josef reply wpbeginner support says: feb 12, 2019 at 11:28 am glad you like our article and thanks for sharing your recommendation for other users. reply glenn topping says: jan 22, 2019 at 2:40 pm thanks for this list and, in actual fact, for all your other very helpful lists. i seem to have found this a bit late though. i’ve been using all-in-one wp migration for the past year and i’ve been very impressed with it. i first used it as i needed to migrate from one host to another, which it was perfect for, but i now use it for my regular backups. works pretty well. thanks again for all of your valuable advice. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 23, 2019 at 1:41 pm glad our guide could help and thanks for sharing your method reply jargal says: jan 21, 2019 at 9:18 pm i am creating backups for my wordpress site with updraftplus. it really saved my life a few times. in my opinion, it is the best backup plugin for wordpress. accidentally, i found a new free backup plugin called wpvivid backup/restore (from wordpress plugin directory) and installed it on my site. surprisingly, it works very well on my site. many wordpress blogs have posted the articles about the popular backup plugins. being an audience, sometimes we want something new. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 23, 2019 at 1:14 pm thanks for sharing the plugin that you found reply rory nevin says: jan 21, 2019 at 8:34 am hi – i’ve been using updraft plus for a while now – backing up onto server and downloaded to local hard drive. however recently it won’t complete a backup – takes ages goes around in circles. i contacted my web host – they say because it’s on an apache server it won’t complete cron jobs and that i should switch to professional hosting – and i need a backup before doing so. is this correct? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 23, 2019 at 11:46 am you would want to reach out to updraft plus for issues with their plugin. reply linas says: jan 19, 2019 at 11:09 am i use updraft back up. now, a recent update came with an incremental update. i have “a talent” to mess up my websites so this plugin saves my a?? every time reply wpbeginner support says: jan 22, 2019 at 3:10 pm glad the plugin helps reply aaditya says: jan 19, 2019 at 1:12 am which one is best between – backwpup or duplicator reply wpbeginner support says: jan 19, 2019 at 8:09 am hey aditya, please see our analysis of both. it actually depends on your needs. duplicator is excellent but it lacks certain features of other backup plugins like storing backups to cloud, automated scheduled backups, and more. reply patty says: nov 24, 2018 at 11:07 am note: backupbuddy can no longer reliably back up to rackspace. i’m using rackspace only because it was an option that ithemes promoted; i had never heard of it before and would not be using it if not for ithemes. so i have a big problem. i’m currently spending a huge amount of time figuring out how to continue backing up. reply priyanshu says: nov 13, 2018 at 11:44 pm i want to migrate my wordpress site but i have no idea how to migrate on another hostinng. reply wpbeginner support says: nov 22, 2018 at 9:48 am hi priyanshu, most wordpress hosting companies offer website migration, some even do that for free. reply bryan f says: jan 19, 2019 at 12:08 pm i use backup buddy for backups and site migration, with great success. reply carl says: nov 4, 2018 at 11:52 am fyi looks like backupbuddy is not free anymore, i searched for the plugin and could not find it then searched google and found their page with their new pricing plans. reply wpbeginner support says: nov 5, 2018 at 11:32 am hi carl, it is not a free plugin. it is a premium wordpress plugin, which means you need to pay for the license to get support and updates. reply rubul smith says: sep 23, 2018 at 12:39 am i am new wpbeginner here. i dont understand which is better for me. can you help me ? give some advice . reply wpbeginner support says: oct 2, 2018 at 8:19 pm hi rubul, all of them are good options. if you want a free plugin, then we recommend updraftplus. reply melanie says: sep 20, 2018 at 12:25 pm thanks for this. it’s on my to-do list. reply august p says: aug 26, 2018 at 1:51 pm updraft plus is garbage! there’s some random javascript or jquery problem error that the updraft team is dismissing. it appears as an error in the wordpress dashboard of your site. it says: “warning: if you can still read these words after the page finishes loading, then there is a javascript or jquery problem in the site.” it makes the updraft plugin unusable (it will not perform backups, won’t even do a migration if you purchase the premium addon). the proposed fixes don’t work, and the updraft support response was basically, “sucks to be you.” i will never use that plugin again! the lack of concern by the support team was disgraceful! reply updraftplus support says: sep 24, 2018 at 6:42 am hi, our apologies for your experience with our support team. it is very important to us that we resolve all support requests. the ‘javascript or jquery error’ message indicates that there is a conflict or other issue on the site that is preventing updraftplus from loading its own javascript. i’m afraid that i cannot find a support request in our system that matches your name here, but if you can open a new support ticket via our support form and ask for the ticket to be assigned to ‘dn’, we can attempt to resolve the conflict (or provide a refund for any add-ons if we cannot). reply mathukutty p. v. says: dec 12, 2018 at 9:42 pm i tried it earlier on my blog and found memory exhaust problem. increased php memory to 256. not success. so stopped using. again installed a week back and found same problem. i am on linux shared 512 m. uninstalled yesterday. found it backup everything database, images, plugins which is really not necessary on daily or weekly. reply janus says: aug 23, 2018 at 2:06 am backupbuddy and duplicator are my favorites but started with a year license for updraft and when i should use it the server was down. and the backup was not for beginners. reply james johnson says: jul 26, 2018 at 9:49 am i expect to do some business in europe and need to comply with gdpr. do you is there something in the program that will make that quick and simple? i’m in the early stages of settling up the business and want to build in compliance. i expect something like gdpr will come to pass in the fairly near future, so it can’t hurt to be ready. i appreciate your assistance! regards, jim johnson reply wpbeginner support says: jul 27, 2018 at 12:26 am hi james, you can hire an attorney to help you with legal requirements. you may also want to see our ultimate gdpr guide for some more details. reply faith biete says: jun 13, 2018 at 2:25 am i will use backup buddy as my blog is a small one. reply kenb says: jun 1, 2018 at 4:33 pm i did not have a good experience with backup buddy. i had been making backups for years without having to use a restore. this week i went to move the site to a new host and it failed miserably. problems with the database access. no timely help available. i found all in one migration worked for me. reply cathy says: mar 14, 2018 at 10:39 am i really must choose a backup plan and get it into place. i’m leaning toward vaultpress. i already have jetpack installed on my wordpress.org site. this might be a dumb question, but i’m a little confused by the statement that one needs a wordpress.com website for it to work. does that include my self-hosted website? reply editorial staff says: mar 14, 2018 at 4:31 pm a wordpress.com site requires you to make a site using http://www.wordpress.com, you would want to take a look at https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/self-hosted-wordpress-org-vs-free-wordpress-com-infograph/ reply david says: mar 26, 2018 at 7:32 pm is it possible that you misunderstood cathy’s question? i think she was asking about your statement that “…you will have to subscribe to jetpack, get a wordpress.com account, and install the jetpack…”. i assume that “a wordpress.com account” does not mean “a wordpress.com website”. i did a quick scan of your linked article, and i didn’t see that it explained that. regards, david. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 28, 2018 at 2:43 am hi david, sorry, yes you are right. a wordpress.com account doesn’t mean you need to create a wordpress.com blog or website. shiva says: mar 6, 2018 at 1:14 am hello, we follow wp-beginner from these type of words. “we use vaultpress for two main reasons. it is extremely easy to use, and it offers real-time incremental backups. ” in last year i commented here also, on that time, our website db storage as 250 gb,now 1.5 tb. we following vaultpress with jetpack premium . it is simple & real-time time backup. thanks wp-beginner suggesting best apps in industry. shiva reply wpbeginner support says: mar 6, 2018 at 6:44 pm hi shiva, glad you find wpbeginner helpful thanks for your kind words. reply steve says: apr 18, 2018 at 6:15 am a 1.5tb database in wordpress? reply debra says: feb 28, 2018 at 9:32 am i am looking for a back-up solution for a very large real estate site with mls/rets integration that has a user friendly restore feature. which of these backup solutions mentioned in this article would work. i used duplicator pro, but it failed to restore a site i had created and i had to completely redo the site. the backup that was with the host service was an epic fail! looking for advice so this never happens to me again! thank you. reply tabasko says: feb 28, 2018 at 7:32 am hi there i’m looking into a wp backup plugin able to copy data files to ftp without using zip (or make separate archive file) + able to backup my parent/root folder of the domain (as wp has been installed in its own folder. problem is that my hosting solution returns error message around zip (“too large file”). thanks for any information you can share reply ray says: jan 12, 2018 at 4:18 pm can anyone tell me when updraft free version runs it auto backup? it appears to me from the couple of sites i have installed it on, it runs the auto backup at the sametime each day you installed it. so if you installed it 11am then it will run the next day at 11am? anyone know if this is true? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 13, 2018 at 2:23 pm hi ray, it does. however, you can also set up your own schedule by visiting settings » updraftplus backups page and clicking on the settings tab. reply ray grau says: jan 15, 2018 at 7:44 pm @support – thank you – but that setting section doesn’t allow us to set our own time to run. if i want it to run in the middle of the night using the (free version) i have to stay till then and activate the plugin. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 16, 2018 at 9:55 am hi ray, we took another look and you are right. it allows you to set the frequency of backups like (12 hrs, daily, weekly, etc) but not the exact time when you want backups to run. for that, you will need premium version. mathukutty p. v. says: nov 22, 2017 at 12:46 pm updraft plus memory exhaust problem. tried adding 256m in php.ini and wp-config.fp as advised by wp support but problem not solved. what is another best free plugin? reply joe miles says: nov 24, 2017 at 6:48 am perhaps you have a site that’s very big on a server with low resources? or somehow your server is already overloaded. updraftplus chunks the backup to make it unlikely to run out of server resources. so i’d expect you’ll also get the problems with other plugins. keep trying to resolve it with updraftplus support. reply m says: nov 24, 2017 at 10:49 pm my site is very small and newly started in sep. with other plugins not facing that problem. contacted updraftplus support on wordpress but they could not solve the problem. tthey replied on twitter to make 256 or 512m in wp_config.fp. i did that in wp_config.fp and php.ini but not success. which free version plugin is alternative and best? reply tyrion says: nov 18, 2017 at 3:41 pm there is a much greater chance that backup buddy will abort than it will run. any little thing will prevent it from running, like if the cat sneezes too loudly. reply john says: feb 4, 2018 at 8:03 am funny but misleading… i’ve used it for years on hundreds of websites without the slightest problem. reply mathukutty p.v. says: nov 4, 2017 at 7:05 am after installing updraftplus resource exhausted. i tried 2/3 times installing. reply mathukutty p. v. says: oct 4, 2017 at 10:27 am updraftplus or wp-dbmanager is better choice? is it necessary to use plugin for backup when cpanel backup is available? reply wpbeginner support says: oct 8, 2017 at 3:34 pm hi mathukutty, with cpanel you will have to manually create the backup. these backup plugins will allow you to automate the process and save backups on cloud storage. reply natalie says: sep 1, 2017 at 8:48 am i have repeatedly tried to back up my blog, using backwpup 3.4.1; a project of inpsyde gmbh [info] wordpress but i always get this email, please can you help and advice error: backup archive too big to be sent by email! [01-sep-2017 04:01:44] error: job has ended with errors in 3164 seconds. you must resolve the errors for correct execution. thanks natalie reply frank says: sep 5, 2017 at 11:01 am the backup it creates is too big to email to you. you’ll need to store and then download it if you want a copy on your computer. reply rob bock says: jun 28, 2017 at 9:51 pm backup buddy or the win. i’ve been developing a new site for a client for 3 months now. it’s a big site, with hundreds of hours invested and countless customizations. come to find out one of my developers updated the theme files instead of applying customizations to the child theme so when we upgraded to wp 4.8 all customizations were lost. thankfully, i was able to use the importbuddy tool that comes with backup buddy and had the site restored back to its previous state in less than 10 minutes using a local backup. i was able to sync the offsite backups to my amazon s3 storage as well. this won’t replace ftp folder backups or database backups through cpanel, but i’ve never felt more confident in a backup tool, and restoring from this was definitely a faster, easier experience than doing so from a manual ftp backup. reply johnsie says: jun 16, 2017 at 10:36 am just backup the wordpress folder and dump the database using a cron job and shell script. i wouldn’t trust a plugin for this sort of thing. reply mark says: jun 13, 2017 at 4:21 pm you said that jetpack is required to use vaultpress. i’ve been using vaultpress for a couple years now and i do not have jetpack installed, nor have i ever heard about this before. and it’s backing me up every day. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 14, 2017 at 12:37 pm hi mark, all customers who signed up before december 2016, can continue using vaultpress without jetpack. as a new customer, you can’t buy vaultpress without jetpack. reply katie says: may 12, 2017 at 3:13 pm thank you for these suggestions! i am attempting backwpup on my brand new blog! we’ll see how it goes… appreciate so many options listed! hoping to backup to my email but really i don’t know whether thats the best idea. anyone have a suggestion for the best place to back up a brand new site? reply andre says: may 31, 2017 at 2:04 am after trying many and getting frustrated with the complex processes i’ve settled on updraft for free and then if you really want super easy and quick then try managewp’s backup and clone service. for $2 i reckon it’s a smashing good service to migrate a site or for off site backups. i have no affiliation to managewp. they just have the easiest backup solution out of all we’ve ever tried. it’s backup or migrat migration takes a few minutes after clicking one or two buttons in the dashboard. but having said that, we’ve not tried securi. reply garth says: apr 1, 2017 at 12:31 am ha ! i have just done a restore using backupbuddy – the importbuddy section. what rubbish ! it has taken 26 hours, yes 26 hours to restore a simple woocommerce site with 5460 products roughly. and then it crashed !! fatal php error: type => 1 message => maximum execution time of 120 seconds exceeded file => c:\inetpub\vhosts\mysite.com\httpdocs\importbuddy\classes\wp-db.php line => 1823 so no soft-landing or message to say restart or whatever. no mention of how to continue if that is at all possible. but just a fatal termination. after 26 hours ! this would be a joke if it wasn’t so serious. it’s easy to backup, but obviously when it comes to actually needing to do a restore – it’s a big fail to backupbuddy. pathetic !! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 2, 2017 at 6:05 pm hey garth, sorry to hear about your experience. there is a simple fix to increase maximum execution time, give it a try let us know if it helped. reply joy says: mar 31, 2017 at 11:32 am i installed the free updraftplus plugin on wordpress. i followed the instructions to connect it with my dropbox, but when i clicked on the link that should have taken me to dropbox to log in, i got a blank screen. when i went back, that link was gone. according to the updraft plus website, that link should still be there in case i ever need to re-authenticate, but it isn’t there. the “store at:” field isn’t there either. any ideas? (i tried using backwpup instead, but the setup was a bit too complicated for me.) reply wpbeginner support says: apr 2, 2017 at 6:41 pm hi joy, please contact plugin support, they will be able to help you better. reply bill hibbler says: apr 20, 2017 at 11:22 am updraft hasn’t been updated in six years. i think this article is based on info from a long time ago. maybe it’s time to completely rewrite it. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 20, 2017 at 12:45 pm hey bill, the plugin’s name is updraft plus not updraft. there is a totally different plugin with the name updraft which hasn’t been updated in a while, you probably mistook it for updraft plus. reply mauro says: mar 23, 2017 at 11:07 am the question is…. have you ever tried to do a restore mauro reply shiva says: mar 7, 2017 at 2:38 pm hello bro, my website is loaded with windows,android,ios apps with an storage of 250gb , i want to purchase premium vaultpress i.e 9$ . that is enough. or i want to buy 29$ plan. please suggest this . reply travis says: mar 2, 2017 at 12:58 pm i used to love backup buddy but in the past year it has gone way down hill. i can’t get it to work now on any of my 15+ wordpress sites. and their stash live service is a joke. it hasn’t worked since day one. the support at backup buddy isn’t that great either. it takes them a couple days to get back to you and when they do they just tell you to contact your web host to have various things done so the “cron job” can work properly. no thank you. i’ve come to my wits end with backup buddy (which led me to this article for alternatives). i’m going to try updraft plus. thanks! travis reply tanya says: jun 16, 2017 at 4:47 pm thanks for that travis – exactly what i needed to hear. used to use them back in the day and theought id try again as they are doing a 50% off but too many similar user complaints. whats working for you now? reply john says: feb 27, 2018 at 4:16 pm as a long time backupbuddy user, i find myself looking for alternatives. since they were recently acquired by liquidweb, their pricing for subscription renewals no longer supports the generous discounts they provided in the past to loyal customers. i will no longer continue with a company that drops its long-time customers so callously. reply estela says: jan 21, 2019 at 8:38 am oh wow, now i understand why my backupbuddy has been failing lately. i also have used them for over 6 years and have all my sites with them without issues (15+), but the last client just didn’t want to upload. i took it for a plugin conflict and used wpmanage to create backups. my subscription is up in the summer so i will keep my eye open for a better solution reply michael alberga says: feb 21, 2017 at 6:13 pm ok here we are. i accidently deleted some important files from my site. the site no longer worked, but i had no fear until the directory where the backups were stored was deleted. how??? damn now i use duplicator pro i store my backups off site in google drive. duplicator pro was so easy to setup, it great. after rebuilding the entire site, pissed off as hell. i tested the entire process of re-installing a backup. lesson test your backups… duplicator pro is my tested choice. reply richard says: jan 28, 2017 at 7:44 pm i’m in complete agreement with luis (posted jan 20, 2017 at 9:05 pm) ——————————————————————————— after having backupbuddy fail so many times during backups, i gave updraftplus a try and so far i am very happy with it. connecting it to my dropbox was also super easy. ——————————————————————————— the number of settings in backupbuddy will drive you nuts… a better way for any backup plugin would be a drop-down that would let you choose your host from a list hosting companies (at least from the top 20 or 30) and then apply the settings accordingly. backupbuddy in no way should be number 1 in this list… i know and many others know the nightmares that comes with this plugin. how in the world could it be number 1 here? reply luis says: jan 20, 2017 at 9:05 pm after having backupbuddy fail so many times during backups, i gave updraftplus a try and so far i am very happy with it. connecting it to my dropbox was also super easy. reply gail palubiak says: jan 10, 2017 at 12:18 pm i’m afraid there’s nothing “beginner” about using these plugins. i’m trying to use updraft with onedrive but the integration process is way beyond my pay grade. reply murray says: jan 14, 2017 at 3:51 am @gail – yes, i hear you. i have onedrive and google drive, and (for me) they were quite difficult. actually they were virtually impossible (for me) so, what i did was, i connected to dropbox to test it out – wow!! could not be easier or simpler. it was so easy, i have left them all (various clients) at dropbox. i use updraftplus connected with mainwp for complete unattended backup and plugin updates. try it, see how you go. reply mike says: jan 10, 2017 at 9:23 am i’ve used quite a few of these over the years. the best solution in my opinion is updraft premium. it is reliable, restores accurately and is pretty straightforward to use. reply divp says: dec 22, 2016 at 3:50 am if you are not already backing up your site, then you should pick one of these 7 best wordpress bckup plugins which are nicely explained as above and start using it right away.i have been using this plugin on our website. is very good and very spectacular. you can as well add this to your list of plugin for easy backup&restore.thanks reply ray says: jul 10, 2017 at 7:00 pm which one are you recommending? you said, “i have been using this plugin on our website…,” but you don’t say which one. reply kristine says: dec 18, 2016 at 9:24 am what would be the best back up for an small business e-commerce site? reply king rayhan says: dec 26, 2016 at 10:43 pm i think backwpup is the best for all type of website reply asanka says: dec 5, 2016 at 6:39 am hello wpbeginner, i;m a big fan of your blog and have read almost all the posts. i even use most of your plugins on my site. one thing i love about your site is your right side bar. the way each widget looks seperated. i tried many thing like editing css and adding margins. using custom side bar plugins. but nothing worked. could you please tell me how to have those awesome widgets in my side bar as well. thanks in advance. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 5, 2016 at 9:20 pm hi asanka, thanks for the kind words. as for our site’s sidebar, we use a custom made theme. you can study our layout by viewing the source code, or by using inspect tool. reply balu says: nov 30, 2016 at 3:40 am most people using updraft plus. i think it is safe and secure. reply jaswinder kaur says: nov 8, 2016 at 5:40 pm hello, i bought vaultpress subscription starting at $5 / month and now in the setting section, they need hosting credentials. my question is, is it safe to provide, username, password etc? thanks. reply bernhard says: nov 7, 2016 at 10:36 am on their website, ithmes claims that backupbuddy does a “full site restore – backupbuddy handles restoring your entire site back to its original glory, including all uploaded media library files, themes and plugin files.” however, when one of the site’s wordpress authors uses non-ascii-characters (what the ithemes support team calls “international” characters), i.e. characters which are a integral part of most written languages but exceed the 26 characters known to the english speaking world, the backup will not be restored correctly even on the same server where the site worked flawlessly before – images and assets will be missing all over the website because their names are mangled in the process. i learned this the hard way when trying to restore a site, and ended up with a frustrated customer and a lot of extra work diagnosing and then fixing the issue. ithemes support explained to me they are aware of the problem, but blame wordpress and the user for this, they suggest using some third party plugins to fix the issue. what bugs me about this is several things: (a) it’s so easy to issue a warning on either the ithemes website, on the plugin page, or when restoring the site, but they chose not to do that, even though they are aware of the issue. (b) there’s a way to detect actual or potential issues and warn the user, either when the site’s language is one that contains “international” characters (i’m not aware of any european language with the exception of english and italian, let alone asian and african languages), or when a backup actually contains a file with those characters in the filename. (c) there’s a way of fixing this in the background when restoring the site. (d) my support ticket was put on hold, my answer to ithemes’ reply was never addressed. so i cannot recommend backupbuddy to anyone who runs a site in any other language than english (or italian). to the rest of the world, i’d also hesitate to recommend it, because i think that not addressing problems right away when there’s the potential of disastrous consequences for your customers (i.e. a restored site not working properly, which might not even be obvious on first sight) is not building trust on my part. disclaimer: i own a lifetime (gold) license for backupbuddy, host quite a few wordpress sites for myself, and for customers, and i have a bit of experience developing web applications. reply jaswinder kaur says: nov 1, 2016 at 4:37 pm right now i don’t have any backup plan and planning to go for pro. as you suggested, vaultpress plugin, going to buy that plan for one site. i have one question, is it necessary to use akismet or any other wordpress free plugin to use vaultpress? thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: nov 2, 2016 at 12:10 am nope. you will need to install a connector plugin that hooks up your wordpress site to vaultpress reply « 1 2 3 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.