wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 7 best wordpress portfolio plugins for designers & photographers 7 best wordpress portfolio plugins for designers & photographers last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 11k shares share tweet share pin are you a designer or photographer looking for the easiest way to build a portfolio website in wordpress? there are plenty of wordpress portfolio plugins that allow you to easily build beautiful portfolio websites. however, finding the perfect portfolio plugin can be difficult for beginners. you will need to find a plugin that makes your work stand out, loads fast, and looks good on mobile devices. in this article, we have hand-picked some of the best wordpress portfolio plugins for designers and photographers. choosing between wordpress portfolio themes vs wordpress portfolio plugins many wordpress portfolio themes come with built-in functionality to create a portfolio website. this makes many beginners wonder why would anyone want to choose a plugin when themes can do the job? themes in wordpress are only supposed to handle the visual appearance of your website. this includes colors, styles, layouts, and presentation of your content. plugins on the other hand are the proper way to add functionality to your wordpress site such as slider, contact form, and more. adding a portfolio comes under functionality, which is why we recommend using a plugin. using a theme for functionality ties your website with that theme. if you change the theme, then you will lose your portfolio data. on the other hand, if you decide to use a portfolio plugin, then you are free to use it with any theme you want. having said that, let’s take a look at some of the top wordpress portfolio plugins. 1. wp portfolio wp portfolio is the best wordpress portfolio plugin for photographers, freelancers, developers, and agencies. it allows you to instantly create portfolio websites from 40+ professionally designed portfolio templates. it is made by the creators of astra theme, which is one of the best wordpress themes of all times. wp portfolio brings the same ease of use to portfolios. it comes with multiple style choices, layouts, supports all types of media, and can be easily customized without writing any code or css. most importantly, all portfolio layouts look equally great on mobile devices and work as elegantly as they do on laptops. 2. envira gallery envira gallery is a premium wordpress gallery plugin. it allows you to create beautiful image galleries and albums. already used by thousands, envira gallery is the best wordpress plugin for photographers and designers. creating a portfolio with envira gallery is quite easy. simply create galleries containing your portfolio items with optional description and details. you can also group galleries into albums or make filterable portfolio. the plugin also makes it easy to add your portfolio anywhere on your wordpress site with the click of a button. for detailed instructions, take a look at our guide on how to add a portfolio to your wordpress site. 3. nextgen gallery nextgen gallery is a popular wordpress plugin for creating image galleries, albums, and photography portfolios. loved by beginners and expert photographers alike, nextgen comes with an intuitive user interface to create galleries. it includes multiple styles and layout choices with support for albums, filterable portfolio, columns, and more. you can also create portfolio carousel/slider, compact portfolio albums, and list or timeline style layouts. 4. visual portfolio visual portfolio is an elegant wordpress portfolio plugin that allows you to create beautiful portfolio galleries. it comes with multiple layout styles including masonry, grid, justified, tiles, and carousel. the plugin also includes a gutenberg block which makes it even easier to add a portfolio anywhere you like. your users can also sort portfolio items using filters, which offers a beautiful browsing experience. 5. gridkit portfolio gallery gridkit portfolio gallery is a simple wordpress photo gallery and portfolio plugin. it allows you to manage portfolio items in projects and make them sortable. it comes with support for new wordpress block editor with shortcode support for older editor. the base plugin is very with limited layout styles and features. you’ll need the premium version to get access more styles and features. 6. meow gallery meow gallery is a free wordpress gallery plugin with full gutenberg block editor support. it allows you to organize your portfolio items in beautiful image galleries. it ships with support for multiple layouts including masonry, grid, tile, and justified. you can select the number of columns you want to display. it also comes with several add-on plugins that can be used for additional functionality like lightbox, audio commentary, external links, and more. 7. genesis portfolio pro if you are using a studiopress theme or any theme made for the genesis theme framework, then you would want to try genesis portfolio pro plugin. it is made specifically for genesis framework and provides a custom post type to create your portfolio items. it also comes with templates to display the featured image you set as the portfolio item in a grid layout. it is a simple plugin and does not include many features of several other portfolio plugins. however, if you are looking for something minimalist, then it would get the job done nicely. that’s all we hope this article helped you find the best wordpress portfolio plugins for designers and photographers. you may also want to see our list of 41 best free photography themes for wordpress. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 11k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to start your own podcast (step by step) revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 2 commentsleave a reply santanu laskar says: dec 29, 2019 at 12:57 am i am as a website owner, these plugins are best for every designers or photographers,it is a helpful content for us. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 30, 2019 at 11:33 am glad you’ve found our recommendations helpful reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) aweber coupon get 100% off for your first month with aweber. start your first month for free. designevo coupon get 25% off on designevo premium logo making service. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.