wordpress websites managed hosting digital marketing portfolio contact free website audit photo credits wordpress 7 common blogging mistakes every small business owner makes as a business owner, you might want to start a blog for many reasons. the first is, of course, to build your brand by promoting and selling your products. you might also want to use the blog to reach clients and get feedback on your goods and services. whatever your reasons are for blogging, it works. business websites which have a blog register up to 55% more traffic than those which do not. but blogging is difficult and time consuming. and chances are that you last did any serious writing in high school or college. you are then more likely to make mistakes such as the seven outlined below. 1) grammatical errors and spelling mistakes errors in grammar and spelling are unacceptable in blogging. they lower your credibility and make your content harder to read. considering the number of word processors that are available, you have no excuse for making such errors. 2) writing uninformative posts to keep a business afloat is a demanding job. and business owners rarely have time for anything else but their work. yet they need to write for their business blogs on a regular basis. so, most end up writing short uninformative posts which add no value to their business blog. even when pressed for time, ensure that your blog is at least 500 words long. web crawlers do not bother with anything shorter than that. in fact, the highest ranked blog posts are up to 2000 words long. but do not fill your post with fluff to increase the word count. focus on providing informative content instead. 3) over-promoting your products a blog should provide its readers with information before anything else. readers find aggressive promotion tactics irritating and a turn off. but you still need to promote your brand. try toning down your sales pitch first. next, offer your readers an expert opinion on matters of interest to them. you will come off as an authority and gain your reader’s trust and attention. if you find balancing the two tricky, use the services of a digital marketing agency. 4) writing too broadly as mentioned earlier, a blog should be informative. unfortunately, some business bloggers go overboard and write too much. to avoid falling into this trap, do not try to appease everyone or write on every topic you can think of. instead, have a target audience. you can write for the youth, seniors, women, men, and so on. next, write on something which touches on their interests and be specific. 5) forgetting to use visual aids regardless of how informative a blog is, readers will ignore it if it lacks visual aids. your content will look like you are giving a lecture. so, try using some interesting graphics and photos. you can also increase a blog’s visual appeal by embedding informative videos. 6) using large text blocks even with visual aids, be careful how you arrange your text. using massive blocks of text that have long sentences and paragraphs will intimidate your readers. keep in mind that the modern audience has a short attention span. so, keep your sentences and paragraphs short. if possible, also throw in bullet points and lists. 7) not optimising content for mobile devices more people are using smartphones and tablets to access the internet than ever before. if you optimise content for mobile devices, you make your content more accessible. therefore, be careful with the text and image size you use for they affect a page’s loading speed. blogging is beneficial to your business. it allows you to advertise or sell your products and services. but to be effective, you must avoid making spelling and grammar errors. do not write uninformative posts or over-sell your products. also, write for a target audience, use visual aids, and small text blocks. finally, optimise your content for mobile devices. previouswhy wordpress is the best cms for small businesses nextadvertising easiest way to make profit website design, managed wordpress hosting and digital marketing services. search recent articles barter community gaming how to find the right wordpress plugin top positioning in google search results how to improve your youtube channel contact rubber dragon limited 01793 626927 info@rubberdragon.com supporting charity as wordpress website experts, we support business against poverty. search menu home wordpress website design managed wordpress hosting digital marketing copyright © rubber dragon limited site map