content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip by megan mahoney published march 24, 2020 high-level strategy / blogging / examples / idea generation / research 7 free ways to get original data for your content i knew creating content from original data was one of the best ways to attract links and exposure with little promotion. but i always thought it was expensive … until i had a chat with andy crestodina from orbit media. a guest on my podcast, andy shared how he used original data that cost nothing to create content that generated thousands of backlinks. the catch? you have to be clever. so i asked a group of clever marketers to suggest how to generate original data on a budget and use the resulting insights to create effective content. here’s what they have to say (and they all work even when you have no extra dollars to spend). the trick to doing no-cost original #research for #content? be clever, says @mmahoney587 via @cmicontent. click to tweet handpicked related content: 5 research options you may never have considered for your content scrape public data website life span andy wanted to know the average life span for a website. but the statistic didn’t exist then. in true clever content marketing fashion, he set out to calculate the statistic. with the help of a virtual assistant, he pulled the list of the top 200 marketing websites according to alexa. then they checked the wayback machine to find how often each website was redesigned. the assistant completed a spreadsheet that showed the average life span was two years, seven months. .@orbiteers used @waybackmachine to #research web page life span. the post he wrote on the finding drew 376 backlinks, says @crestodina via @cmicontent. click to tweet that stat resulted in an orbit media blog post, what is the average website lifespan. that one-stat post generated 376 backlinks from over 130 referring domains. it also ranks for nearly 300 keywords. salary project andy had another data-driven idea – how much money do marketers make. he went to publicly available data on two sites – payscale.com and glassdoor.com. from payscale, he captured the salaries for the top seven marketing job descriptions/titles. next, he went to glassdoor and collected the data from the same categories. using two independent sources made the data more credible. using both site’s figures, he calculated the median salaries for each position and published it in the blog post, 7 marketing job descriptions and salaries: how much do marketers make? handpicked related content: 7 things successful marketers do with original research how to plan a year’s worth of content with one original research survey find a relevant partner when mantis research launched, michele linn, co-founder and chief strategy officer, wanted to conduct a study about research (yes, meta), but she didn’t yet have an audience to survey. she solved the problem with collaboration. she found a partner with a sizable audience that shared her curiosity about research – buzzsumo. mantis research created, programmed, and tested the survey, buzzsumo distributed it. mantis then analyzed the results and crafted the final report: the state of original research for marketing. don’t have access to audience to do a survey? partner with a brand that does, says @michelelinn via @cmicontent. click to tweet both mantis and buzzsumo distributed the results, which was worthwhile for both parties. “it was a great way for us to get visibility for our brand – and learn a ton in the process,” michele says. “even though our brand was new, we were able to get backlinks to our study. and, it’s common for potential clients to mention that they learned about us by reading the study.” handpicked related content: thinking of creating original research? 8 things to consider 5 ways to create the most valuable content for your audience 10 (mostly) quick wins to steal for your original research project organize public data a lot of data is just waiting for a clever marketer to turn it into a valuable resource. scott brinker and his chief marketing technologist blog makes a lot of data available through its marketing technology landscape: velocity partners’ doug kessler and agu rejon took that data and enriched it using the marketing data engine software clearbit. the result was the creation of a new content product – martechbase, a free tool for marketing technologists and operations people. ask google analytics if your website has a lot of visitors, you have good data waiting in your google analytics. fortunately, you don’t have to be an analytics whiz to take advantage of it. christoph trappe of authentic storytelling says his favorite way to gather original data is using the voice feature in google analytics. when he was writing a post and wanted to know which social network drove the most traffic to his website, he asked google analytics, “what social network drives the most traffic to the site?” my favorite way to gather original data is using the voice feature in @googleanalytics, says @ctrappe via @cmicontent. click to tweet he then incorporated that data into the article, what’s the easiest way to check metrics in google analytics? here it is … handpicked related content: stop wasting time: review your website analytics how to visualize data with google data studio leverage customer data your customers are providing original data in almost every interaction they have with your company. a great example of this is a call-to-action study done by wistia. they wanted to know which ctas performed the best. the team at animalz, led by jimmy daly, took on the project. they scrutinized the over 480,000 ctas from almost 325,000 videos the result? the wistia guide to calls to action in video marketing, which has attracted almost 500 backlinks and ranks for over 100 keywords. handpicked related content: can’t get that click? 5 simple strategies for ctas that convert [examples] analyze a third party ann handley shares a data-driven content example done by jon burkhart, a reader of her total annarchy newsletter. he scraped the text of her writing- and marketing-focused newsletter to create a word cloud and published it on linkedin. the unique visual presentation not only attracted ann’s attention but several other influencers in the field. tip: think about where your target clients’ audiences get their information and cultivate data from those sites. for example, you could look at the titles of the buzzfeed articles with the most comments to identify popular format frequencies. think about where your target clients’ audiences get their information and cultivate #data from those sites, says @mmahoney587 via @cmicontent. click to tweet handpicked related content: how to match your content to the best distribution channel dataviz: a critical skill for modern marketers get started next time you plan a piece of content, don’t try to find a fresh idea based on already available statistics. create the relevant, recent, and accurate statistics yourself. you don’t need to have a big research budget, let these examples inspire some clever thinking around your industry and content marketing. please note: all tools included in this post are suggested by author. no one post can provide all relevant tools in the space. feel free to include additional tools in the comments (from your company or ones that you have used). when you do your research on the best content marketing conferences, you’ll be ready to sign up for content marketing world this october. register today for the best rates. cover image by joseph kalinowski/content marketing institute author: megan mahoney megan is the ceo and founder of the content marketing agency, ignite my site. she is also the host of a content marketing and seo podcast that breaks down the strategies and tactics of the world's most celebrated content marketers. you can connect with her on linkedin other posts by megan mahoney join over 200,000 of your peers! get daily articles and news delivered to your email inbox and get cmi’s exclusive e-book get inspired: 40 examples that are driving content marketing forward free! ← get an a for accuracy with this fact-checking content checklist 3 stunning examples show visual storytelling at its best → connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree