barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up life 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest hannah sichting writer shares share tweet pin you don’t have to be the parent of a hooman to be celebrate father’s day — dog dads count too! and with father’s day on sunday, what better way to celebrate than with a little recognition for some of the best dog dads around? from celebrities with animal sanctuaries to old men with hilarious ways of transporting their pups, these dog fathers are sure to melt your heart. so here we have it: seven of the best dog dads who’ve ever dog dadded! 1. jon stewart if you’re still missing jon stewart on the daily show, this might ease your pain. stewart and his awesome wife tracey own a 12 acre farm in new jersey that they have transformed into a sanctuary for abused animals. the sanctuary, also known as bufflehead farm, is home to a veritable menagerie. though the animal sanctuary is fairly new, stewart has been an avid dog lover for years. not only did he ensure the daily show office was a dog-friendly space, but he is also a longtime pit bull advocate and proud dog dad to three beautiful pitties…. including one with three legs! 2. roo yori this kick-butt dog dad is a true k9 ninja. roo yori recently dominated a qualifying course on the popular show american ninja warrior while wearing a shirt with a powerful message we love; adopt a dog. yes, yori, we couldn’t agree more! when he’s not wowing the audience, he plans to use his airtime to share the story of his rescue dogs and encourage others to adopt. yori has been one of the best dog dads around long before his ninja warrior debut. he’s worked hard to shatter pit bull stereotypes by founding the wallace the pit bull foundation and turning one of michael vick’s fighting dogs, hector, into a therapy dog. though his beloved pits wallace and hector have passed, you can see from the pic below his life is still filled with lots of happy tail wags and couch snuggles. you go, roo! 3. tito beveridge if you love a strong cocktail as much as you love an adorable cockapoo, than you’ll love dog dad tito from tito’s handmade vodka. creating the world’s smoothest vodka isn’t beveridge’s only mission, he is also committed to rescuing and protecting animals. several of the dogs his company has rescued are happily “employed” at the distillery and office. tito created the vodka for dog people program, which aims to unite friends, fans, and partners to better the lives of pets around them. the company is also a big supporter of emancipet, a nonprofit with the mission to bring high quality spay and neutering solutions to all pet owners. tito’s handmade vodka even sells vodka themed dog-related items with all proceeds going to emancipet. cheers to that! 4. steffen baldwin this former military paratrooper/ dog dad is a hottie with a huge heart! working mostly in rural ohio, baldwin goes above and beyond to end breed discrimination. he is the co-founder of ohioans against breed discrimination, he started a children’s dog safety class in an attempt to lower the amount of dog bite incidents, he created a nonprofit organization that fights animal cruelty in rural areas at no cost to local communities, aaaand he even works with police officers to educate them on dog body language to prevent unnecessary canine shootings! another big accomplishment? he has saved 250 dog reactive dogs from death row simply by spending time with them. baldwin is one truly incredible dog dad! 5. eugene and corky bostick all aboard!! 80-year-old brothers eugene and corky bostick earned their best dog dad titles when they built a train for their beloved strays. living on a dead-end road in rural fort worth, texas, they often have stray dogs dumped on their property. they decided to take the dogs in as their own — but that’s not all! the brothers also used a tractor, some barrels, and their impressive welding skills to build a train for the pups. twice a week these lucky dogs get carted around on a fun-filled hour and a half puppy train ride. 6. steve greig steve grieg dedicates his life to saving animals, particularly senior dogs. there are currently 10 dogs — and one pig that wants to be a dog — living under his roof. sound like a full house? greig says since all the dogs are over the age of 10 they spend most of their days napping, snuggling, and eating treats. which makes them pretty easy companions to keep around! since most the dogs are on special diets, grieg gets up at 5 a.m. each day to prepare each pup’s special breakfast and medication. this all began when he went to a dog shelter and asked for the least adoptable dog they had. talk about a great dog dad!! 7. ed gernon ed gernon adopted and befriended a feral german shepard mix named rex who was a pupsona non grata infamous for fighting dogs and killing cats. but that’s not what makes gernon one of the best dad dogs around. to his surprise, his dog stopped dead in his tracks on a walk one day when he spotted a dying hummingbird. gernon thought the sick hummingbird was surely going to die, but took it in his home when he realized rex wanted to save the it. a year later gernon, rex, and hummer the hummingbird live happily together under one roof. looks like gernon and rex are both great dog dads… one in the literal sense! featured image via @ryangosling_page/instagram comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up hannah sichting writer 16 functions your dog has other than being your bff fridays look a little different when you're a dog parent 10 shirts that totally understand your life as a dog lover 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go