skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us 7 real reasons why your blog is not succeeding alex nerney updated: 12/17/19 • comments: 24 home » create and go blog » make money » 7 real reasons why your blog is not succeeding disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin407 shares407 feeling a bit stuck trying to have success with your blog? i get it. they’re dark times… lauren and i spent many months in what we call the “poop phase“ of online success. during this phase, we made a ton of mistakes. probably just about every one you can make. we had no idea what we were doing. real talk: monetizing a blog is hard. when we were trying to climb out of the trenches, we started driving tons of traffic from pinterest, getting a good amount of email subscribers, and we still weren’t making any money. but thankfully, that traffic did allow us to do one thing that eventually led us out of the trenches… trial and error... for about three solid months, we tried everything. like a throw-everything-at-the-wall-and-see-what-sticks kind of scenario… we tried monetizing with… affiliate products sales funnels webinars product launches email funnels and pretty much anything else you can think of… we bought $1500 courses that didn’t work, purchased software that sucked, and made tons of mistakes. but learning what not to do is still more important than freezing up and not learning anything at all. we paid attention and learned a lot from every mistake that we made, and this became the groundwork for building the strategies that did work. you can read more about how we monetize and see our current and past blogging income in our income reports. disclaimer: the following article is full of some serious tough love. but i don’t want to sugarcoat things for you and give you some fake, fluffy words of encouragement like “keep trying! you’ll never fail if you don’t give up” it’s going to take some serious work to get there, but i want to help you. here is an overview of what we’ll cover: table of contents close open 1. you don’t put in the work. 2. you’re just like everyone else. 3. you don’t take pinterest seriously. 4. you’re not connecting enough with your readers. 5. you get advice from too many “gurus.” 6. you don’t have a list. 7. you are afraid of asking people to buy your product. these are my best tips and advice from my experience in the trenches. if i can help even just one of you get the hell out of there, this article was worth it. 1. you don’t put in the work. when lauren and i decided to start our first blog (and actually try to make a living from it), the amount of initial effort it took was enormous. we spent every night (after our full-time jobs), every weekend, and every other spare moment that we had trying to grow our blog. our social lives took a big hit in the beginning (rip brunch). there were a lot of polite declines for movies, parties, dinners, etc. as young 20-somethings living in the big city of dallas, this was difficult. that being said, you know what was more difficult? working jobs we didn’t like to play it safe, please our families, and chase weekends and vacations that ended way too soon. so… we made a key decision. to go all in… we quit our comfortable, full-time jobs, dipped into our savings, and sold our cars and furniture — all before we were making a dime with our blog. and no, i’m not saying you have to do this or should do this, by any means. you might have a family, children, student loans, or other debt that would make this a very unwise decision. my point is that you must get serious about it. you must put in the work. we made our blog our top priority and we hustled our asses off until we made it happen. this article has been updated a few times, but i originally wrote it from our balcony in bali overlooking the city of ubud after 10 months out of my “real” job. here is the original post from lauren’s instagram: a post shared by lauren mcmanus (@laurenitous) on oct 15, 2016 at 4:32am pdt not a chance in hell. the juice is worth the squeeze, my friends. it’s a squeeze for sure, but it’s worth every delicious drop. 2. you're just like everyone else. what makes you unique? for real though, i’d love to know. the only way to shine through the ever-growing sea of bloggers out there is to be unique. and no, this does not mean that you have to reinvent the wheel... facebook came after myspace peeps, and that idea came from friendster. just taking a good idea and making it better is a really great place to start! here’s how we made our six-figure health and wellness blog stand out from the crowd: best pins on pinterest (for real though -- lauren’s a studette at pinterest) we niched down (we didn't just teach about general weight loss, we taught about fast weight loss specifically, and only for women). we shared our experiences, not our assumptions. ( i was able to draw these from my professional experience working as a personal trainer for years. we taught based on real-life strategies that worked for us -- not just on theories taken from others.) here’s how we are making create and go stand out from the crowd: best pins on pinterest (she's still a studette!) our blogging story starts with earning six figures with our health and wellness blog -- not just from teaching other people how to make money online (this sets us apart from a lot of bloggers just blogging about blogging.) we share our experiences, not our assumptions. (we teach based on real-life strategies that have worked for us -- not just on theories taken from others.) as you can see, we didn't reinvent the wheel anywhere. we don't have ground-breaking technology or wisdom to share. but we have been able to differentiate ourselves enough to create a competitive advantage. just tell your story. teach from personal experience. you can't go wrong if you're doing that. 3. you don't take pinterest seriously. i can't write enough about this subject. if you’re not on pinterest and you're instead trying to do any of these things to grow your blog... beating people with rare, long-tail seo keywords on google spend hours editing simple photos and trying to chase followers on instagram posting anything on your facebook page and trying to get organic traffic good luck with that!!! it's not that google, facebook, or instagram don't matter. or that they aren't worth your time. it's just that there is a platform that is a far better use of your time. and that platform is pinterest. pinterest is one of the best sources of traffic for bloggers, especially new bloggers. our pinterest traffic is what allowed us to build an email list and test out so many different ideas and products when we were first trying to monetize our blog. it's when things really started to turn around for us and it was the first step to getting out of the trenches. but if you really want to learn more about why you should be on pinterest and how you can get started, our article on pinterest for bloggers is your next stop. like anything good worth having, it takes work, but it’s been worth every freakin' penny and every hour invested. take pinterest seriously, people. 4. you're not connecting enough with your readers. people buy coaches, not coaching. i heard this little gem the other day, and it is definitely something to chew one. i'm going to illustrate this with an example from our health and wellness blog and our personal experience. when we first started our health and wellness blog, we hid behind it for a long time. our faces were nowhere to be found and we didn't even have our names on our about page. we were still feeling burned after our first blog failed. but when we started trying to sell products to our audience, we quickly learned that the more personal we got with them, the more likely they were to buy our products. this led us to finally put our names and our faces on our blog. and from there, we actually moved to just lauren's name and face. we made lauren the authority figure or figurehead of the website. i, alex, became more of a distant character, a consultant on the blog, and an occasional participant in the community groups. why? because lauren did a much better job connecting with our target audience than i did. our target audience was women, and they wanted to hear from another woman. she was more relatable to them and she was able to make a better connection with them because of it. sometimes, you need to step up and be the person your audience needs you to be. if you've been hiding, it's time to come out of the shadows and do what you need to do to help make that connection stronger. here are some of the best ways to do this: make sure your face and bio are on your blog (and noticeable) regularly communicate with your audience in your blog comments and especially via email tell your story as often as you can in your content (both free and paid) next up on the list of reasons why your blog isn't making any money is... 5. you get advice from too many "gurus." raise your hand if your facebook newsfeed looks like this every third post: sigh... mine too. and i'm not trying to throw shade on this dude for it. he's hustling, and i have mad respect for that -- from one hustler to another. but i want to throw shade on you if you are following more than a couple of these gurus. here’s what you should be doing instead: find 2-3 brands or people that you really feel like you can connect with that live life how you want to live it, and become a true follower and disciple of them. buy their products, open all of their emails, and absorb everything they say. become a die-hard fan. this will benefit you and your business 100x more than following 10+ people and getting confused by all of the contradictory information out there. would you rather have 3 ride-or-die best friends or 10 friendly acquaintances that will show up if they don't have anything better to do? the problem with following too many people is that you only get surface-level information and you never get deep enough to get to the most valuable information that they have to offer. you'll end up absorbing a lot of free but piecewise information -- never a complete strategy. and it will take you a lot longer to climb out of those trenches. 6. you don't have a list. this is another topic that i could write an entire book on. the money is in the list, my friends. we make considerably more sales from our email list than we do by linking our products in our blog posts. we know because we've used a software called clickmeter to actually track where our traffic and conversions were coming from: trust is everything when it comes to building your audience and making sales, and there is no better way to build trust with your audience than through your emails. that’s all i’m going to say about it in this article. these are our two favorite tools when it comes to email marketing: leadpages - to design high-converting landing pages that get people on your list convertkit - to store your list and send emails to your subscribers if you want another resource on how to do this (or how to do it better), check out our article on how to build an email list. 7. you are afraid of asking people to buy your product. it can be hard to put yourself out there, especially in the beginning. when you are first trying to sell a product or service to your audience, there are often a lot of doubts and fears surrounding it: "why would someone buy this product from me?" "there are so many other products out there. why would someone want mine?" "is my product really good enough??" we get it. lauren and i laid awake many nights in the early days wondering if we were good enough. if our products were good enough. but here’s why you should never shy away from selling a great product, ever: people want and need a solution to their problems. and if you can provide that solution, you should be proud to sell it and market it to your audience! and as far as getting the confidence to know that you have a great product, well... sometimes, you gotta fake it til' you make it. in other words, let the positive customer feedback speak for itself. people will love your product and they will thank you for it! here is a screenshot of someone from our support group that lost 20 lbs in 21 days on our weight loss program: positive feedback like this will start to roll in. and if you get negative feedback, that's okay too! just improve your product to make it better! you will also always come across people who just hate being sold to and will never buy a product from you. ignore these people. they will unsubscribe and they aren't worth your time anyway. they also aren't the majority of people out there. remember that. why spend all of your time trying to convince the jaded customer to buy your stuff when there are customers out there open to new ideas and spending money for their problems? let this process be a learning process for you and a chance for some serious personal growth and experience. learning marketing and how to sell products to your audience will help you build confidence, fast. once you sell a few products and people get results, your confidence to sell more will grow exponentially. with every new product that we created, we got faster, better, smarter, you name it. the selling and marketing experiences that you will learn will take your business to places you never even dreamed of. just remember to always be honest about it. don't let the money make you lose sight of what really matters. what should i be doing to make money? we've talked about a lot of things that you're probably doing wrong while you're trying to make money... but what about the things you should be doing right? our next best resource for you is our comprehensive guide on how to make money blogging. give it a read now if you have the time or save it for later! if you enjoyed this article on blog monetization mistakes or have any questions for us, please leave them in the comment section below! we'd love to hear from you! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin407 shares407 about alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. read this next how to make money blogging [from $1 to $100,000 per month] 2020 edition we had no idea we’d make $103,457.98 our first year blogging. honestly, that number seems so fake just typing it… like something you’d see in a movie or a dream. and that’s exactly why we created this website… because as crazy as it sounds, this is not a dream. this is a reality for many […] keep reading > similar articles make money google adsense for blogs [7 reasons why these ads suck] in 2020 affiliate marketing for bloggers (how we make over $25,000/month) how to create and sell digital products on your blog can blogs make an income without blogging about blogging? see all blog posts 24 leave a reply 12 comment threads 12 thread replies 1 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 16 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest antonio inspiring article, happy i found you guys 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago admin alex and lauren i’m happy you found us too! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago guest tiny hi guys! 2 things, i need help and i need to buy one of your courses. i have a blog that has been stagnant for a while and i want to go back and do the work to make it work. i would like you guys to check through the site so that i know if it has a future or not. if it does, i’d be happy if you recommended one of your courses so that i can finally make progress. honest feedback would be highly appreciated! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago admin alex and lauren hey tiny, send an email to [email protected] you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago guest john do you guys still work on avocadu? it seems it hasn’t been updated in a while? any reason why? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago admin alex and lauren hey john, we are currently working on a plan for avocadu 🙂 create and go has taken a lot of our focus away from the health and wellness blog due to course redesign and updates. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago guest jim perkins good info. i am a part time writer and had a weekly humorous newspaper column for several years. i loves italy and bought a house in sicily. my gf is italian and owned a travel agency and we are starting a blog on vacationing and buying a home in italy. your blogs and info is just what we need. we’ll be taking your courses! thanks! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks, jim! we would love to have you in our blogging community! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest juvenal this is very good alex. thank you !!! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren you are very welcome 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest nicole finally started monitizing my blog and purchased both of your courses. i’m seeing a change in the traffic on pinterest now also. staying optimistic but needing a sales point now. thanks for the helpful article. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren hey nicole! congrats on your beginning traffic success. i look forward to hearing more updates! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest michael and meandy thanks so much for sharing this one! we’re not ready to monetize our blog yet–but you listed some awesome points. points #2 and #4 really hit home with us. funny thing you mention #4 because we recently made a small change on our bio for the very same reasons=traffic increased. it’s pretty amazing how small things like that can make such a big difference. thanks so much! 🙂 our goal for 2020 is to start monetizing our blog, wanted to get traffic/email list first. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren great to hear that little change made a great impact! i can’t wait to see what you accomplish in 2020 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest emily i’ve just stumbled upon your blog on pinterest and i’m officially hooked! this is the kick i’ve needed to persevere in my own poop stage. love love love this content! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks, emily! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest florence hey guys really hope you get this and reply back. you guys are my role models and learning so much for you both. i initially started my blog with parenting, food and pregnancy tips but now i know which direction and audience i am targeting which is entrepreneurship and finance. how do i get around to restricting my blog? so i just delete the old posts or section it somehow to fit in. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren hey florence. that’s definitely a swing in a totally different direction. at the very least, i would set posts in the old niche to private (if you don’t want to delete them) you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest mike awesome post alex, i really love the tip on selecting just a few bloggers and getting the deep stuff. also the books… i never thought of it that way. we defo seem to have a similar book taste though as millionaire fastlane and the slight edge are 2 books (out of about 4) that i’ve read more than once. thanks for sharing! mike you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks, mike! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago admin alex and lauren great to hear! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 8 months ago guest caroline burnett you guys rock. i read a little about you and am sold in you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thanks, caroline!!! welcome to our community!!! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest jennifer ostroski i just discovered you guys (on pinterest of all places) and love how real you are. wish i had discovered you a year ago when i started my blog. i’ve been “monetizing” from the very beginning with affiliate links and ads mostly. a couple $1 izea posts here and there. and my proudest yet was a gift card to buy alcohol for a sponsored post. all said i am still in the hole with my investments and such. i’m extremely stubborn though and absolutely love doing this. thanks for the inspiration! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey jennifer! thanks for sharing your story, and i’m glad that we could be of some help. we are working on our next course on blog monetization (including affiliate marketing), and it should be ready by the end of next month. that may help you out as well, because we will be going into detail about how to get started with everything. make sure you are signed up for our blogging email list to get updates on that! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents 1. you don’t put in the work. 2. you’re just like everyone else. 3. you don’t take pinterest seriously. 4. you’re not connecting enough with your readers. 5. you get advice from too many “gurus.” 6. you don’t have a list. 7. you are afraid of asking people to buy your product. footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz