start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising motivation work advertising last updated on march 17, 2020 7 things that decrease team motivation (without you even noticing) david carpenter lifelong entrepreneur and business owner helping others to realize the american dream of business ownership read full profile share pin it tweet share email economies are cyclical, there’s just no getting around this fact. and while these last several years have seen an abundance of economic growth, we should all remember the wisdom found on king solomon’s ring that said, “this too shall pass.” in fact, for those who joined the workforce only in the last decade, they have never experienced an economic downturn or recession. the last one started in 2007 and lasted until 2009.[1] so, it’s safe to assume that for a significant number of employees and managers, the next economic downturn will be their first time dealing with the stressors of mandatory layoffs, budget cuts and reorganization. motivating teams is never easy; even in good times, team motivation can be difficult to maintain. just checkout amazon’s collection of books on how to motivate employees, you’ll find thousands on the subject. but, now add in difficult times for the business, industry or economy and you’ve got a whole new set of problems. whereas before your employees felt reasonably secure that if they performed well, they could count on having a job tomorrow. now they can’t, and this lack of security is an added layer of stress that will affect morale and performance. and while it may be tempting to take the attitude that they should just be grateful just to have a job in these times, that would be a mistake. fear is actually a demotivating factor. sure, everyone wants to keep their job, especially in tough times, but uncertainty and fear are distractions that damage effectiveness and hurt productivity. as a leader, maintaining team motivation during difficult times can be challenging. issues that might have been a minor annoyance in good times can become magnified into problems that affect the motivation and productivity of your entire team. here’re 7 factors that demotivate employees and 7 ways to tackle them: 1. fear we touched on this earlier, uncertainty and fear go hand in hand. fear is a perfectly natural, and most of the time good human emotion. it is designed to keep us safe in the face of dangerous situations. fear only becomes a problem when it prevents us from making beneficial decisions. we can imagine our ancestors confronting a sabre tooth tiger and becoming so paralyzed by fear that they get eaten. in today’s world, you are much more likely to becoming paralyzed by internal fears than external ones like the tiger, but it is no less debilitating. advertising these internal fears start out as legitimate concerns. times are tough, others are being laid off or fired, you could be next. but, as often happens with fears, they grow and become exaggerated in the mind. this is when fear can disrupt team motivation and impact productivity. what you can do from a leader’s standpoint, you need to understand that most of your employee’s exaggerated fears come from an inaccurate assessment of the conditions. from their point of view, the decisions on who gets let go can seem arbitrary and inexplicable. it’s the seemingly randomness of these decisions that fuels the anxiety and fear of i could be next. so, as a manager, it’s very important that you are constantly communicating with your team on the status of the company and their place within it. even if that means letting them know that they are being considered for the next round of layoffs. letting your employees know exactly where they stand, even if it’s not good, is better for motivation than the uncertainty of not knowing. it can also be a great way to motivate your team into action. especially if you can give them concrete goals to achieve that will help their prospects of staying employed. 2. unclear goals during good times, employees may be happy to just sit back and do their jobs with little thought of how they are impacting the company as a whole. during difficult times, when you are asking your employees to do more with less, it’s important that they understand how each member contributes to the success of the team. what you can do as a leader, it’s your job to set clear, obtainable goals for the group as well as the individuals within that group. this is especially important during difficult times, as often the priorities of an organization will change. during tough economic times, new business ventures and expansions are often cut back or eliminated in order to focus on the “core” business. when this happens, you may need to switch your teams focus entirely to save your and everyone else’s jobs. but here again, communication with your team members is key. keep them apprised of any changes to the goals and how it affects their individual roles within the team. as a leader, you can actually increase your team’s motivation if everyone has a clear understanding of the goals and their role in achieving those goals. 3. lack of autonomy it may seem logical that when times get tough, you should take more control or supervise your teams more closely. after all, the pressure is on to turn out good results. advertising but study after study show us that a lack of autonomy kills both individual and team motivation.[2] in fact, giving your team more autonomy is one of the best ways to improve motivation and results. what you can do go against your instincts to control. micromanaging it guaranteed to reduce team motivation. now, with that being said, granting your team or employees autonomy does not mean that they can do whatever they want. as a leader, you need to set the basic framework or conditions that they need to work under. things like timeframe, budget constraints and the functionality of the final product should all be known conditions for your team. but once those conditions are set, let your team decide how to attack the problem. this allows for creativity to flourish and provides a sense of pride and ownership over the finished product that is highly motivating. 4. change humans are creatures of habit, we get used to a routine and stick with it even if what we’re doing isn’t helpful. having a routine provides a sense of comfort and security critical to our mental health. this is why psychologist note that all change produces stress. even good changes can be highly stressful, think getting married, divorced, having kids or getting promoted. there’s no way around it, change is disruptive and stressful. now, put yourself in a position where your industry is in a downturn and things need to change in order to survive. for the industry veteran, the old ways of doing things are now obsolete and an entire new skill set must be learned. for the new employee, the job they do may look nothing like the job they were hired for. in short, the old comfortable routines have been interrupted and keeping up team motivation on these shifting sands is difficult. what you can do be alert and watch for signs. change is tough for everyone, but some people are more resilient than others. if you notice one of your employees having an especially hard time, it’s important to address the situation. often, there are challenges in the person’s personal life that are adding to the stress they feel. in those cases, temporarily reducing their workload or giving them an extra afternoon off can help reduce stress and increase motivation. advertising for everyone else, a good rule of thumb is “the more information you can share, the better”. nothing zaps motivation and fuels insecurity more than a lack of knowledge. 5. ambiguity in short term goals ambiguity is a motivation killer. in order for any team to function well, each member must have a clear understanding of the ultimate or long-term goal of the team. from there, each team member is assigned tasks that contribute to the completion of that goal. in turn, each member can break down their task into individual steps or short-term goals that, when completed get added to the whole. but what happens when we change the original long-term goal? even if everyone understands and accepts the new goal, they need to have a clear understanding of their new role in achieving it. it would be similar to starting a new job without any training or guidance from a superior. what you can do anytime a mission or goal is changed, it is important for a leader to assign each member of the team a clear role within the group. this should include responsibilities as well as expectations for their assigned tasks. depending on the individual, you may also need to help them breakdown their tasks into short term goals on a timeline. as long as your team understands their new goal and the members have a clear understanding of their individual responsibilities in achieving the goal, there should be no problem with ambiguity. 6. burnout during difficult times, asking our workforce to do more with less just comes with the territory. but the consequence of this can be burnout. according to the world health organization, work related burnout is defined as:[3] burn-out is a syndrome conceptualized as resulting from chronic workplace stress that has not been successfully managed. it is characterized by three dimensions: 1) feelings of energy depletion or exhaustion; 2) increased mental distance from one’s job, or feelings of negativism or cynicism related to one’s job; and 3) reduced professional efficacy. burn-out refers specifically to phenomena in the occupational context and should not be applied to describe experiences in other areas of life. over time, burnout will zap your team’s motivation, morale and productivity. the symptoms of burnout include: becoming cynical or critical at work. coming to work and have trouble getting started. becoming irritable or impatient with co-workers, customers or clients. lacking the energy to be consistently productive. being unable to concentrate. lack satisfaction from achievements. feeling disillusioned about their job. using food, drugs or alcohol to feel better or to simply not feel. being troubled by unexplained headaches, stomach or bowel problems, or other physical complaints. what you can do leaders need to be aware of these symptoms and take corrective action as soon as possible. some things you can do to help with burnout include: talk to your team members about their workload and stress. do they have any thoughts on how to do things better or more efficiently? maybe that weekly report they do can be a bi-weekly report instead. increase the use of non-monetary rewards such as praise (both public and private). recognition programs such as employee of the week, month, year. and even instituting “casual fridays” can be a morale booster. increase the use of low-cost monetary rewards like, morning donuts, buying lunch for the team and taking the occasional friday afternoon off. flextime is another great way to combat burnout. it gives the employee a chance to spend more time with their family and also gives them a sense of control over their time. 7. feeling under-appreciated during difficult times, upper management will often tighten the reins on employees. and while they see it as a way to control costs and focus on core issues, it can be disheartening to the average employee. advertising whereas management used to be open to ideas and suggestions from those in the “trenches” now, more and more decisions are being made unilaterally from the top. this stifles creativity and turns the employees into “cogs in a machine”. what you can do communicate the changing parameters and scope of work coming from management as soon as possible. then, give them as much decision-making authority as you can. they may not be happy that their budget got cut by 20%, but if they have a say in how that money is allocated it’s a much easier pill to swallow. bottom line motivation is a tricky thing, what motivates one person may not motivate another. but, as a manager or leader, it’s your job to manage your teams in a way that produces the best result possible. during difficult times, whether they are caused by the broader economy or management missteps, being able to motivate your team is critical for survival. we’ve talked about the challenges of team motivation during difficult times and some of the ways you can handle it. but, when you boil it all down it can be summed up in one word, communication. having open communication with your team clarifies their job descriptions and role within the company. it reduces the fear and anxiety associated with the inevitable changes that occur during these times. and finally, it allows your team to have a clear understanding of the issues facing the company and the plan to overcome them. more tips for team management 6 productivity tips to help you with team management how to motivate employees and boost team productivity 10 team management tips shared by successful leaders featured photo credit: kaleidico via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ economic: the recession has (officially) ended [2] ^ facile things: the three pillars of motivation [3] ^ world health organization: icd-11 for mortality and morbidity statistics share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 essential skills to become a successful team leader 8 signs of a micro manager (and how not to become one) how to spot job burnout and cope with it advertising advertising more by this author david carpenter lifelong entrepreneur and business owner helping others to realize the american dream of business ownership 12 bad leadership qualities to be aware of 10 essential skills to become a successful team leader 7 things that decrease team motivation (without you even noticing) how to set long term goals and reach success what is delegation and how does it enhance team management? advertising trending in motivation 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 what is resilience and why is it important? 5 think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it more by this author david carpenter lifelong entrepreneur and business owner helping others to realize the american dream of business ownership 12 bad leadership qualities to be aware of 10 essential skills to become a successful team leader 7 things that decrease team motivation (without you even noticing) how to set long term goals and reach success what is delegation and how does it enhance team management? trending in motivation 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 what is resilience and why is it important? 5 think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it read next revealed: how to be a great leader that everyone wants to follow 6 productivity tips to help you with team management you are not your thoughts: 10 ways to get rid of unhealthy thoughts how self doubt keeps you stuck (and how to overcome it) advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in motivation 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 what is resilience and why is it important? 5 think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.