video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map productivity 7 ways to stay busy and productive while self-isolated quarantine has suddenly opened up some more time. next article --shares add to queue grow your business, not your inbox stay informed and join our daily newsletter now! email will be used in accordance with our privacy policy image credit: burst entrepreneur store contributor march 26, 2020 3 min read disclosure: our goal is to feature products and services that we think you'll find interesting and useful. if you purchase them, entrepreneur may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. as the world goes inside to help flatten the curve and prevent the spread of coronavirus, you may find yourself with some more time on your hands. you're working, yes, but now you don't have to commute, you don't have to make errant stops on the way home, and you're likely less distracted and can be more productive at home. so, what are you going to do with those newfound minutes and hours? we've got some ideas. learn a new language image credit: entrepreneur store learning a new language has positive cognitive benefits and can help you open up new business opportunities. mondly is a google play editor's choice winner and apple app of the year winner because it uses state-of-the-art tech to help you learn a new language whenever you have the time. get a lifetime subscription for $69.99. freshen up your résumé image credit: entrepreneur store if you've been on the fence about your current position, maybe now is a good time to start looking for another job. the first step: revisiting the résumé that you haven't edited in years. if you need some help, rezi résumé software has your back. rezi compares your résumé to thousands of others, highlighting what could use some work and what stands out, helping you create the best résumé for whatever industry or job you're chasing. get a lifetime pro subscription for just $29. develop a new website image credit: entrepreneur store if you're building that brand, the next step is a great website. no entrepreneur should start a venture without a website. of course, not everybody is that technically savvy. blueprints website builder lets you build sites without coding a single line. with 200 examples pages, 500 responsive blocks, 30 navigation panels, and many more customizable tools, blueprints lets you build a complete site fast. get a lifetime subscription for just $39. backup your files image credit: entrepreneur store you are probably overdue for a good file backup. you don't want to lose valuable data in a computer crash, so just do yourself a favor and get a good backup software like degoo. degoo offers 10tb of secure, easily accessible backup for life at an unbeatable price. get 10tb for just $99.99. record some content image credit: entrepreneur store content is king, especially now that sports programming is all postponed. video content can be a great new growth and revenue channel for small and medium-sized businesses, so why not see what you can do? xsplit vcam is a cool app that lets you record with different backgrounds, almost like a virtual, considerably less expensive green screen. get a lifetime subscription for 59% off $49.95 at just $19.99. work on that brand idea image credit: entrepreneur store have a brilliant idea for a new company? you're going to need great branding to get it off the ground. to start, you'll probably need a logo. my brand new logo is an ai-enhanced logo generator that takes a few inputs from you to create an awesome, fully-scalable logo that you own outright. get access for $39.99. get a grip of your finances image credit: entrepreneur store the world economy is taking a massive hit during the pandemic. how's your portfolio looking? it may be time to think about the future and start tightening up your belt. moneywiz3 is a personal finance that has been recognized by forbes, cnn and more. moneywiz lets you organize all of your accounts, budgets and bills in a single place, syncing your financial data so you can see exactly how much liquidity you have. get it for 60% off $49.99 at just $19.99. more from entrepreneur get heaping discounts to books you love delivered straight to your inbox. we’ll feature a different book each week and share exclusive deals you won’t find anywhere else. sign up now jumpstart your business. entrepreneur insider is your all-access pass to the skills, experts, and network you need to get your business off the ground—or take it to the next level. join now create your business plan in half the time with twice the impact using entrepreneur's biz planning plus powered by liveplan. try risk free for 60 days. start my plan related books the naming book buy from the naming book buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read the unstoppable journal buy from the unstoppable journal buy from amazon entrepreneur books ultimate guide to link building buy from ultimate guide to link building buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read career rehab buy from career rehab buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read entrepreneur voices on elevator pitches buy from entrepreneur voices on elevator pitches buy from amazon barnes & noble indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read no b.s. marketing to the affluent buy from no b.s. marketing to the affluent buy from amazon barnes & noble indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read latest on entrepreneur company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account productivity this app can help you stay on task while working from home productivity these accessories can help you be more productive while working from home productivity want to boost your team's productivity? consider creating a workplace outside. productivity 9 ways you make it harder for your team to get stuff done coworking wework, industrious, the yard: here's how much membership will cost you at 12 coworking spaces