nomadic matt's travel site travel better, cheaper, longer search for: travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop 7 ways to scratch the travel itch without traveling updated: 3/17/2020 | march 17th, 2020 once at a reader meetup, a fellow traveler approached me. he had just returned from an overland drive from new york city to patagonia. after i peppered him with questions about his trip (i mean, really, how cool does that trip sound?), he asked me one: “how do you deal with coming home, staying in the travel mindset, and keeping the lessons you learned alive?” it’s a great question, and it touches on something a lot of travelers get blindsided by: the post-travel blues. post-trip depression is something many long-term travelers struggle with. coming home is often harder than leaving (or adjusting to life abroad), because it’s so anticlimactic. before your trip, there is this massive buildup of emotions, preparation, and excitement. you’ve been planning your trip for months, imagining yourself trekking through foreign lands, meeting interesting people, and going on an adventure. you’re moving toward a goal. you’re excited. a bright future of possibility lies before you. but then you come home after months (or years) abroad and it’s suddenly “now what?” there’s no more buildup. just a complete stop. you don’t come back with a bang; you come back with a whimper. your friends are only kind of interested in your trip, but soon their eyes glaze over at your travel tales. before you know it, you fall back into your old routine and it’s as if the trip never happened. so what can you do to re-create that sense of travel when you get back home? and given the times we live in, what do you do when you are quarantined because of coronavirus, flights are grounded, and the travel industry has come to a halt? how can you keep that sense of adventure alive while you are home (literally in your home and generally in your community)? well, here are 7 ways to bring the world to you when you can’t go to it: 1. read travel books the easiest thing you can do to bring the world to you is to visit it through a book. read about people’s adventures and stay inspired as you dream about all the places you’ll go in the future. get new ideas, learn about other cultures, satiate your wanderlust, and grow your “to visit” list. let your mind travel when your body can’t. here’s a list of some travel books to get you started: the alchemist, by paulo coelho wild, by cheryl strayed the beach, by alex garland all god’s children need traveling shoes, by maya angelou in a sunburned country, by bill bryson turn right at machu picchu, by mark adams video night in kathmandu, by pico iyer among the white moon faces, by shirley geok-lin lim ten years a nomad, by me! (which you should definitely get because it’s the best — and supporting the team and me during these times would mean a lot!) for more suggestions, here’s a larger list of my favorite travel books. and here’s a list of 13 non-travel books that changed my life (because if this quarantine lasts for a while, you might want to read some other genres too!). additionally, if you want regular book suggestions, we have a travel book club where, once a month, i send a list of some of my recent reads. 2. watch travel movies from far-fetched classics like indiana jones to biopics like wild to documentaries like a map for staurday, travel movies are another great way to satiate your wanderlust. here are a few of my favorites: lost in translation up in the air the beach midnight in paris the way for more, here’s a full list of the best travel movies out there. and, if you want some tv or netflix suggestions, here are a few shows worth bingeing: parts unknown with anthony bourdain an idiot abroad departures the long way round the amazing race dark tourist someone feed phil ugly delicious 3. start planning your next trip eventually, the current situation with the coronavirus will pass, and we’ll be able to travel again. so, while you are at home with lots of time on your hands, start planning your summer or fall trip. after all, we’re all gonna really need to get outside once this crisis is over! trip planning will keep you busy and help make the days and weeks fly by. first, buy a guidebook. i love getting lost in guidebooks and plotting itineraries and dreaming of the sights i’ll see. they’ll help you get the lay of the land, outline your budget, and get an introduction to the destination. we have seven in-depth budget travel guidebooks to some of my favorite destinations around the world: paris iceland amsterdam bangkok europe new york city thailand they’re the product of over over ten years of backpacking the world and are chock-full of insider tips, budget suggestions, itineraries, and much, much more! for other destinations, i suggest using lonely planet guidebooks. they’re my go-to company whenever i’m planning a new trip. they have the widest selection of destinations out there. you can check out their selection here and pick one up for your next trip! (amazon is delivering, so you don’t need to leave your house to get one!) next, check out this comprehensive step-by-step guide to planning a trip. it will walk you through all my best tips on planning a trip so you can be ready to go the second we’re allowed to travel again. being at home can lead to a lot of boredom but i’ve always found trip planning — even for places i never end up going — a great mental escape that helps me pass the time and occupy my mind. 4. start travel hacking while you’re waiting for your next trip, sign up for a new travel credit card, so you can earn points and miles for free flights and hotel stays. this is how i travel so often without spending a ton of money. accommodation and flights are two of the biggest expenses you’ll have, so being able to reduce that to near zero will ensure that you’ll be able to travel a lot more! here are some posts to help you learn more and get started today (because the sooner you start, the sooner you can earn a free trip!): how i earn 1 million frequent flier miles each year is travel hacking really a scam? the ultimate guide to travel hacking the 6 best travel credit cards for 2020 5. join online communities a wonderful way to connect with other travelers and keep the spirit of travel alive is to join an online community. there are a lot out there these days (including the one we started a few months back). being at home can be isolating, so, as you dream and plan future trips, connect with other travelers. share trips, advice, and stories, and keep your spirits high! here are a few of the best online communities you can join today: the nomadic network (this is our travel community) lonely planet’s thorn tree girls love travel (women only) reddit’s travel and shoestring subreddits (for general travel and budget travel, respectively) couchsurfing (they have groups and destination-specific forums) 6. read travel blogs whether you’re planning a trip or just looking for something to read, travel blogs have a wealth of on-the-ground information, insider tips, and stories that can give you a lot of helpful advice and suggestions for your next trip. not only that but, as the travel industry grinds to a halt during this pandemic, reading blogs helps you support those of us who rely on advertising as part of our income. so not only will you be getting lots of information but you’ll help keep bloggers from going under. win-win! here are some suggested blogs to read: uncornered market (sustainable travel) view from the wing (travel hacking, airline news) wandering earl (adventurous budget travel) the blonde abroad (travel and lifetsyle) neverending footsteps (travel and anxiety) be my travel muse (solo female travel) for even more awesome websites worth reading, here’s a list of my favorite travel blogs. and since we’re also struggling traffic-wise, here are some of our most popular posts in case you feel like browsing (thanks in advance!): why travel makes you awesome everyone says i’m running away how to realize you dreams & travel anywhere you want the ultimate guide to traveling when you have no money why it’s never the perfect time to travel 7. meet travelers near you (note: at the moment, this tip does not apply due to the quarantine, but once it is lifted, this can be a way to meet people in your local area.) having a support network is vital. you need people who won’t think you’re weird when you tell them you want to hike across the amazon. you need people to say, “can i join?” that why we started the nomadic network. it’s an online and in-person meet-up group for travelers all around the world. we host regular events every month in cities across the globe (at least when this crisis is over). sign up, use our forum to chat with people virtually, and, when this all over, come meet up in person! some other great websites for meeting people in real life are: meetup.com – there’s a group out there for everything. i use this site frequently. couchsurfing – couchsurfing is more than a website that offers accommodation. it has lot of local groups that hold events all the time. it is a wonderful way to meet other travelers and locals — at home or on the road. *** coming home can be hard. we all need a community that supports and understands us. and while we can’t meet that community in real life right now, there are many ways you can bring the world to you while you are at home. use these tips. keep your travel spirits alive. plan a future trip. the world will be waiting — and ready — for you when this is all over. book your trip: logistical tips and tricks book your flight find a cheap flight by using skyscanner or momondo. they are my two favorite search engines, because they search websites and airlines around the globe so you always know no stone is being left unturned. book your accommodation you can book your hostel with hostelworld as they have the largest inventory. if you want to stay somewhere other than a hostel, use booking.com, as they consistently return the cheapest rates for guesthouses and hotels. i use them all the time. don’t forget travel insurance travel insurance will protect you against illness, injury, theft, and cancellations. it’s comprehensive protection in case anything goes wrong. i never go on a trip without it, as i’ve had to use it many times in the past. i’ve been using world nomads for ten years. my favorite companies that offer the best service and value are: world nomads (for everyone below 70) insure my trip (for those 70 and over) looking for the best companies to save money with? check out my resource page for the best companies to use when you travel! i list all those i use — and they’ll save you time and money too! photo credit: 7 – ouishare published: march 17, 2020 categories africa airlines america asia australia blogging tips books canada caribbean central america couples travel eco-tourism europe family travel female travel flyte interviews lgbt travel middle east new zealand photography points & miles random musings south america travel advice travel gear travel tips my new memoir is out!! my other awesome books want to share your tips and advice? got questions? visit the community forum to ask questions, get answers, meet people, and share your tips! disclosure: please note that some of the links above may be affiliate links, and at no additional cost to you, i earn a commission if you make a purchase. i recommend only products and companies i use and the income goes to keeping the site community supported and ad free. facebook twitter pinterest email related posts 8 ways to stay motivated to travel finding work overseas: 15 ways to earn money while traveling 12 ways to be prepared for anything while traveling there are 24 comments alice january 12, 2017 at 11:40 am another suggestion: many universities have programs for being friends with international students who are studying there for the semester or year (you don’t have to be attending the university yourself; any local person can join). you meet with the student regularly to show them local places, share a holiday meal, or just go out for coffee. it’s great for families, and a good alternative to having people actually stay in your home. reply jess january 12, 2017 at 2:23 pm eat with is definitely one of my favorites! we could use more programs like this. reply tf january 12, 2017 at 3:47 pm you’d be surprised how many smaller cities have international/exotic pockets. the nursing home where my dad was in hospice was a mini united nations. the medical workers were from ghana, cameroon, drc, kenya, nepal, peru, philippines, pakistan; cleaning help from latin america….this in a mid-size midwestern city. talking to them brought out their stories as well as tips about where to find ethnic restaurants. reply pb january 12, 2017 at 5:57 pm we’re actually working on that! not everyone can travel and even those that are able to can’t do it all the time. reply stephanie january 12, 2017 at 8:51 pm great suggestions! i notice that i’m much more “open” while traveling, and it’s hard to keep that mindset when i’m back in the daily grind. meeting other travelers – or doing things i typically only do while traveling – helps. i’m a huge fan of meetups! i belonged to several when i lived in washington, dc. now my husband and i are living in japan and i started my own french conversation group. it’s not only a great way to meet other french speakers, but it gives me a channel to make japanese friends. reply alex webb january 13, 2017 at 8:34 pm great article. i particularly like the suggestion of bringing the world to you with couch surfing. wanting to see the world was a big reason why i left my hometown after high school and moved to hong kong for university. it really opened up the world to me and introduced me to many new experiences that i couldn’t have had otherwise. i also was able to meet many new friends that i wouldn’t know otherwise. it really changed my life. now that i’m back in the states i’ve gotta say that i agree–post travel depression is real and it can feel tough to acclimate back to “normal life” in the culture you grew up in. i think your advice in this regard, trying to meet new people from different cultures, etc. is really true. the world would be a much better place if more people were more open and willing to listen to people from different cultures. we’re more similar than we may seem and learning about other ways of doing things and seeing the world is so important, especially given debates about immigration going on around the world. reply kenny january 14, 2017 at 11:57 am music is another great way to bring the world to you. find music from the area you want to visit, and it mentally transports you. along that vein, i am the organizer for a world music meetup here in boston, and we have a blast getting a taste of the world in our own backyard via music. when you do travel, get a cd from the local scene and you have a great souvenir to remind yourself of that area when you return home. reply joe january 15, 2017 at 9:46 am there’s a sense of “this is boring” once you return home. couchsurfing, though, is a great way to change that melancholy into excitement! my favorite host, in raleigh, nc of all places, brought me to another couchsurfer’s house warming party! three couples, myself, and a girl whose boyfriend was away… but i was no 8th wheel! they were all so inviting, cooked amazing food… i enjoyed myself very much. the cs community is pretty dandy! reply nomadicmatt january 15, 2017 at 9:57 am this is a perfect example of why i love couchsurfing! reply natalie january 15, 2017 at 10:10 am this is such a great article. i couldn’t travel much last year, but i actually did kind of bring the world to me. i made several friends who are originally from japan and one from chile. though going to evening meet ups and gatherings is really not an option because i have toddlers. however, i am adventurous in meeting people, talking to those who also have kids in particular. i highly recommend saying hi to people and seeing what happens. reply arianwen january 15, 2017 at 1:36 pm some great tips here! i definitely got post-trip depression after 10 months in asia last year. i went from having all the independence i could wish for to living back at home with my dad for half a year while a visa application in relation to an amazing job opportunity overseas failed! it feels good to be on the road again and doing meetups etc again. reply hurghada january 16, 2017 at 1:45 am music is another great way to bring the world to you. find music from the area you want to visit, and it mentally transports you. along that vein, i am the organizer for a world music meetup here in boston, and we have a blast getting a taste of the world in our own backyard via music. when you do travel, get a cd from the local scene and you have a great souvenir to remind yourself of that area when you return home. reply rebecca january 16, 2017 at 8:42 am post travel depression is real! especially when your most recent trip was to disneyworld! these are great ideas. wonderful post! rebecca x reply hurghada january 17, 2017 at 7:32 am some great tips here! i definitely got post-trip depression after 10 months in asia last year. i went from having all the independence i could wish for to living back at home with my dad for half a year while a visa application in relation to an amazing job opportunity overseas failed! it feels good to be on the road again and doing meetups etc again. reply anna colorista january 17, 2017 at 11:40 am such a cool article! i definitely struggle with after travel depression on a regular basis and love to surround myself with like-minded people at home. i also still attend university and enjoy spending time with exchange students, learning their language or teaching them german. it’s also a nice way to invite the world into your home 🙂 reply caren january 19, 2017 at 8:39 am i also love listening to podcasts and just the other day i found there was a laos buddhist monastery in the small appalachian town i’m living in right now! they also run a super authentic restaurant and it’s like being back in southeast asia all over again. i loved this article because i really hate coming home after a trip, but there’s tons of ways to make it better! reply jennifer january 19, 2017 at 12:30 pm post- travel depression is so real. i’m experiencing it now. funny this post came up during my “reverse culture-shock” state of mind. thanks matt for sharing reply deepika may 15, 2017 at 7:39 am i agree with you nomadicmatt, coming home is often harder than leaving for a travel person. but i never thought about it this way. i will definitely try these. many of us often say “i wish i could travel more, but i don’t have the money.” or sometimes the issue isn’t money but time. or energy. or children. you have the best advice for these problems. reply hope august 22, 2017 at 11:34 pm this is such a great article. i couldn’t travel much last year, but i actually did kind of bring the world to me. i made several friends who are originally from japan and one from chile.. reply allison march 18, 2020 at 2:40 am i’m glad everyone is writing articles like this for all of us who can’t scratch our travel itch! but i would not recommend that woody allen film, there are a million other films set in and about paris that aren’t directed by a person like him. reply renuka walter march 18, 2020 at 5:09 am i like the fact that you mentioned about reading travel blogs. this is a challenging time for all of us. let’s hope to get on the other side soon. i’m spending my time writing, learning new things and just praying. i hope this time is going to make all of us a lot humbler. reply charelle march 21, 2020 at 9:03 am thanks matt, really helpful now we can’t travel. luckily i also have your blogging course to keep me busy at the moment. hopefully times will get better soon, and i hope you will feel better soon as well! reply sher march 26, 2020 at 1:58 pm as an aspiring traveler but keeping a full-time job, scratching that itch has been a skill i had to master. i teach in a university (international relations) so i have a natural love affair with maps, but i sometimes find myself pinning destinations i want to visit next! watching travel shows also help. up in the air was something we were asked to watched in grad school and i never looked back when i started to love flying. and yes, i think i have watched almost every single episode of anthony bourdain’s shows! reply kanak march 27, 2020 at 5:22 am i am the organizer for a world music meetup here in boston, and we have a blast getting a taste of the world in our own backyard via music. reply leave a comment cancel reply by posting a comment, you agree to our community friendly, anti-spam comment policy that can be found here. get my best stuff sent straight to you! send me tips about us about matt copyright privacy policy contact write for us travel tips start here travel blog destination guides guidebooks community travel forum book club flyte travel media courses book your trip accommodation cheap flights travel insurance travel credit cards favorite companies search follow me on the web facebook twitter instagram pinterest copyright © 2020 · nomadic matt’s travel site