worksheets all topics a-z grammar vocabulary speaking reading listening writing pronunciation virtual classroom articles posters books more worksheets by season 600 creative writing prompts warmers, fillers & ice-breakers coloring pages to print flashcards classroom management worksheets emergency worksheets revision worksheets resources we recommend busyteacher home » writing free writing worksheets as esl teachers, we’ve all had those students who do great on their grammar exams, speak up confidently in class, and are always first to raise their hands for activities - and yet, when it comes time for a writing assignment, they can barely squeeze out a few short sentences. this can be frustrating for the student and teacher alike - but it’s the symptom of a problem that’s well-known in every teaching community: speaking and writing are two very different skills. as with any new skill, practice is key - but students who have trouble writing aren’t usually keen to take on even more writing practice. after all, they might think, if their grammar and vocabulary are correct, and they don’t need to write in english for their jobs, what’s the point of drilling this skill? the answer is, of course, that the ability to write in english is key in the world and the workplace - from writing cover letters and cvs to drafting emails and client presentations. the responsibility is at least partly on you, the teacher, to provide assignments that draw your students into the writing process. busyteacher.org is your number-one stop for exactly those kinds of assignments. our 730 writing worksheets will provide your students with intriguing writing prompts, and with a variety of writing exercises that’ll help them watch their own improvement as it happens. our worksheets even break down the writing process into its core components, so you can figure out exactly where in the process each student is struggling, and intervene with exercises to help him or her through that trouble spot. the writing worksheets here on busyteacher.org will help familiarize your students with all the sub-skills involved in writing - from choosing a topic and constructing that first paragraph, all the way to writing movie reviews and short poems. some of our worksheets even cover basics like handwriting and sentence structure - so no matter how much your students need to brush up on their fundamentals, we’ve got worksheets to meet them where they are. you’ll find worksheets on any topic you can imagine, from daily routines and holidays to pop culture, news, and even poetry and song lyrics. some worksheets just help you lead simple fill-in-the-blank exercises, while others present thought-provoking topics for full essays, or include plans for your students to create their own newsletters. and for students who need help with english school assignments, you’ll also find worksheets on writing essays and test responses. you can browse all of our 730 writing worksheets in thumbnail view, so you don’t have to wait for any of them to load to get an idea of what they’re like. as you scroll down the page, just click on any worksheet that catches your eye - they’re all completely free to download, print, and share in any way you like. and they’re all created and classroom-tested by real esl teachers all over the world - which means you can be confident they’ll work in your classroom, too. if you’ve got a worksheet of your own that you’d like to share with your fellow esl teachers in the busyteacher.org community, just click the “submit a worksheet” button at the bottom of this page. all of these writing worksheets are here to help you - so pick out a few that look interesting, and give them a try in your classroom today. we’re sure you’ll love them as much as the other esl teachers in our community already do. read more......less filter by level new complete beginner (77) elementary (304) pre-intermediate (234) intermediate (249) upper-intermediate advanced (181) exam level (44) suitable for all levels (107) clear filters filter top articles in this category no, it's not arbitrary and does make sense: how to teach the english punctuation system less is more? how to teach summary writing 10 fun spelling games for your esl class how to teach writing: 6 methods for generating writing ideas how to teach your students to write an essay how to effectively teach english writing skills how to teach writing: 7 strategies for elaboration getting to the point: 6 short writing activities for beginning esl students how to teach argumentative essay writing howto: 3 easy steps to grading student essays dramatically improve the way you teach: check out our writing resources creative writing prompts 1-50 creative writing prompts 51-100 creative writing prompts 101-150 creative writing prompts 151-200 creative writing prompts 201-250 creative writing prompts 251-300 creative writing prompts 301-350 creative writing prompts 351-400 creative writing prompts 401-450 creative writing prompts 451-500 creative writing prompts 501-550 creative writing prompts 551-600 make a word search: create awesome-looking custom word searches in seconds! create now › make a word scramble: instantly create custom word/sentence scrambles for your class! create now › make a double puzzle: generate double puzzles your students will love - hours of fun! create now › esl articles view our latest knowledgebase articles that will help you become a better english teacher. learn from professional teachers and put a bit of your own creativity into it! top 10 tongue twisters: true teacher's treasure? 10 february themed language building activities beyond martin luther king day: teaching argument through the writings of martin luther king wida and access testing: what you need to know how to be a better teacher: the secret recipe that every pro knows view all rate this category 4.1 out of 5, rated by 10 teachers explore writing: creative writing prompts 429 dictations 47 punctuation 40 most popular writing pack (from paragraph to essay) thanksgiving poetry worksheet belongings writing couplets: project for young learners with full lesson plan discourse markers kitchen verbs word search lifestyle profiles appositives (fun sentences) product reviews let's talk about paul sort by: most recent | most viewed | rating wida and access testing: what you need to know erikagreen •teaching different ages, speaking, reading comprehension, listening, writing, esl essentials many teachers, especially those new to wida and/or esl teaching, are often overwhelmed and intimidated by the wida standards and access testing. in this article, we attempt to break down the mai ... 1 11,208 begelempre-intintadv punctuation marks kristine44 •signs and notices, punctuation this grammar-guide presents in a clear manner the most important punctuation marks in english, (full stop, comma, semi-colon, apostrophe, etc.), explaining their use and providing examples (page ... 1 15,864 pre-intint the peel paragraph scaffold ambi tad •opinions, projects, creative writing prompts, coursebook resources here is a scaffold detailing all aspects of inclusions in a peel / seel / teel paragraph. this paragraph structure is used to elaborate on arguments or reasons that support the opinion or point o ... 1 10,316 pre-intintadv fce writing tasks worksheet mirela rotaru •writing » creative writing prompts the worksheet includes summarized information about the writing tasks for the fce cambridge exam: register and tone, target audience, organisation and structure, purpose and content (essay, lette ... 1 12,036 advexam mixed punctuation quizzes liz marquez •writing » punctuation this worksheet features a variety of punctuation quizzes including questions involving commas and colons. students must fill in the correct punctuation marks. 1 16,187 elem put busyteacher in your inbox sign up for the busyteacher weekly and be the first to get direct links to our latest teaching articles, worksheets and lesson plans. goes out to 323,134 subscribers every wednesday. see last week's issue. yes, sign me up! thank you for joining our mailing list! thank you, mom writing template helpteaching •writing give kids a chance to thank their mothers for all of the hard work they do with a simple writing activity. print out the letter and let kids fill it in. find more free writing worksheets at helpte ... 1 6,942 poetry worksheet - writing rhyming lines m. crowe •creative writing prompts, intonation, rhythm and stress this is a creative writing prompt to help english as a second language students practice rhyming words, with a minor emphasis on poetry rhythm. familiar words with multiple familiar words as rhyme ... 1 11,612 elem weekly writing - jokes helpteaching •writing students complete the worksheet by answering a different prompt related to the theme every day of the week. can use in-class as journal entries and writing practice or as homework. find more writi ... 1 8,547 elemint superstitions shouting dictation tom leventhall •superstitions, dictations this activity was specifically designed for chap 10 of the empower advanced book, but can be used for any upper intermediate or advanced group. after completing the shouting dictation, students ca ... 1 9,769 adv spring idiom writing prompt helpteaching •writing sometimes in spring, you'll hear someone say, "he has spring fever." what does the expression "spring fever" mean? use thsi writing prompt to get students to share the true meaning of the id ... 1 6,077 all the perfect date - writing activity jeff genet •everyday/social english, love and marriage, say/tell/speak/talk, creative writing prompts an incredibly powerful tool to get shy students speaking. perfect for writing and speaking. use visual aids to elicit vocabulary and expressions, create sentences and a storyline. then ask them to ... 1 13,158 all illustrations to explain why hyphens matter sonali s vinnakota •business grammar, young learners, humour, punctuation this worksheet contains four illustrations that explain the importance of using hyphens. research has shown that visuals boost engagement levels among students and help with better assimilation an ... 2 6,987 elem princess and the mystery box jeff genet •feelings and emotions, say/tell/speak/talk, creative writing prompts, flashcard sets a fantastic visual teaching prompt to teach creative writing, speaking, storytelling, sequencing and lots more. use the pictures to pre-teach vocabulary and expressions related to the theme. excel ... 1 18,769 all home idioms shouting dictation tom leventhall •house/flat/rooms, idiom, dictations this is a shouting dictation designed to practice a number of "home" idioms. students begin with the shouting part of the activity then proceed to a matching-type activity where they match they i ... 1 13,418 adv thanksgiving flashcards jeff genet •thanksgiving worksheets, say/tell/speak/talk, creative writing prompts, flashcard sets a beautifully illustrated set of flashcards for thanksgiving. powerful tools for creative writing, storytelling, brainstorming, conversation starters, vocabulary building and pretty much anything! ... 1 14,920 all reading and writing collaborative activity using sticky notes lynn bradshaw •teenagers, adult learners, creative writing prompts this is a worksheet to get students thinking about what they read and write on a daily basis. it is particularly useful for students who claim they never read by getting them to explore what they ... 1 13,553 pre-intintadv halloween storytelling flashcard prompts jeff genet •halloween, say/tell/speak/talk, creative writing prompts, flashcard sets high quality beautifully illustrated flashcards that can be used for icebreakers, vocabulary building, storytelling, creating writing, presentations, cultural awareness and a variety of other thin ... 1 16,579 all english resource - writing a descriptive paragraph 1 primaryleap •young learners, homework, creative writing prompts when writing a descriptive paragraph remember to: 1. make sure that you choose a meaningful person, place, or thing. 2. introduce the person, place, or thing you are describing. 3. keep your reade ... 1 15,391 elem a single life - tell a story with sequencing words alandra1729 •adverb, adult learners, movie + video + cartoons, creative writing prompts a worksheet to accompany a short animated video. includes vocabulary for different life stages, sequencing words to help students write a plot summary of the video, discussion questions and ... 2 24,030 pre-intintadv a trip to the hospital - picture-based sequencing activity jeff genet •passive voice, questions and short answers, past simple, creative writing prompts an awesome collaborative or individual exercise to practice writing, speaking, sequencing, storytelling, follow up questions and much more! use the images as prompts to tell a story. brainstorm vo ... 1 16,089 all the tell-tale heart - edgar allan poe iclassics collection •questions and short answers, homework, character and personality, creative writing prompts the tell-tale heart" is a short story by american writer edgar allan poe, first published in 1843. it is told by an unnamed narrator who endeavors to convince the reader of his sanity, while descr ... 1 11,750 pre-intintadvexam superheroes and superpowers - video and writing prompt tom leventhall •can/could, creative writing prompts discussion/warmer activity centered around superheroes and their superpowers. students begin by watching a youtube clip, using it identify a number of superpowers. they then design their own sup ... 1 24,412 pre-intintadvexam explanatory writing prompt - hair styles helpteaching •writing » creative writing prompts motivate students to write and to improve their explanatory writing skills with this creative writing prompt that asks them to write about their hair style. why did they choose it? is it unique? h ... 1 11,303 int christmas story picture - small chimney primaryleap •young learners, christmas, creative writing prompts, december this christmas worksheet was created for primary/elementary students. kids look at the picture and write a creative story to go along with it. santa is looking a bit worried...we think the chimney ... 7 32,585 elem teaching gerunds through creative writing michael patrick •infinitive and gerund, present continuous, adult learners, creative writing prompts lesson 7 in this 24 part series of exercises is almost all about gerunds which are very common in everyday usage and these different exercises will show your students just how much. i've also snu ... 7 26,051 pre-intint got a great worksheet on writing? tell us about it and become a busyteacher contributor! submit a worksheet previous page 1 2 3 4 5 ... 30 next page busyteacher.org copyright 2007-2020 © about submit a worksheet log in terms privacy contact us mobile version working. please wait...