worksheets all topics a-z grammar vocabulary speaking reading listening writing pronunciation virtual classroom articles posters books more worksheets by season 600 creative writing prompts warmers, fillers & ice-breakers coloring pages to print flashcards classroom management worksheets emergency worksheets revision worksheets resources we recommend busyteacher home » teaching ideas » emergency free emergency worksheets this section is for worksheets about emergencies such as earthquakes, fires, and tsunamis. there are currently 76 worksheets posted on this page. you can use the subsections to help you narrow your search further or remain in this main section to see everything that is offered. there are stories, coloring pages, and classroom posters related to emergencies that you can use in your esl classes. many of the worksheets, such as this one, come from the national weather service. this worksheet is about thunderstorms. the thirteen page document is a story that includes some thunderstorm vocabulary and safety guidelines. it would be most appropriate for pre-intermediate to intermediate students. if your students are younger, you can have them color the pages of the story to make a nice book while for older students, you might want to have students form groups and give presentations about different topics related to the story. if this worksheet is not what you were looking for, continue browsing through this section to discover more great worksheets. read more......less filter by level new complete beginner (15) elementary (35) pre-intermediate (56) intermediate (36) upper-intermediate advanced (10) exam level (3) suitable for all levels (2) clear filters filter top articles in this category getting serious about fire safety: essential activities for your esl class somebody call 911: valuable activities for teaching about emergencies dramatically improve the way you teach: check out our writing resources creative writing prompts 1-50 creative writing prompts 51-100 creative writing prompts 101-150 creative writing prompts 151-200 creative writing prompts 201-250 creative writing prompts 251-300 creative writing prompts 301-350 creative writing prompts 351-400 creative writing prompts 401-450 creative writing prompts 451-500 creative writing prompts 501-550 creative writing prompts 551-600 make a word search: create awesome-looking custom word searches in seconds! create now › make a word scramble: instantly create custom word/sentence scrambles for your class! create now › make a double puzzle: generate double puzzles your students will love - hours of fun! create now › esl articles view our latest knowledgebase articles that will help you become a better english teacher. learn from professional teachers and put a bit of your own creativity into it! top 10 tongue twisters: true teacher's treasure? 10 february themed language building activities beyond martin luther king day: teaching argument through the writings of martin luther king wida and access testing: what you need to know how to be a better teacher: the secret recipe that every pro knows view all rate this category 5 out of 5, rated by 1 teacher explore emergency: earthquake 16 fire safety 12 tsunami 10 most popular natural disasters safety and hazards word search puzzle puzzle emergencies environment interactive board hurricane sandy weather worksheet: billy and maria learn about tornado safety - part 2 natural disasters worksheet first aid kit natural disaster worksheet: earthquake preparedness emergency worksheet sort by: most recent | most viewed | rating movie worksheet: how to have an accident at work, donald duck hmora05 •movie + video + cartoons, fire safety this is a worksheet to teach safety and hazards at work, its very useful because it works as a warm-up for the topic or even a class task. this activity encourages students to think and give thei ... 6 13,590 all diwali do's and dont's lalitha •teaching ideas » emergency » fire safety diwali is a festival which originated in india but celebrated nowadays in many countries. it is called the festival of lights and is celebrated by lighting many lamps and bursting fire crackers. t ... 4 10,061 pre-intint first aid kit daherrerod •crosswords/boardgames, medicine and health, emergency, fire safety this is a pdf document that contains a first aid kit in which students have to identify the elements that the kit contains and their corresponding names. it is perfect for introducing new vocabula ... 15 55,302 begelem puzzle emergencies daherrerod •crosswords/boardgames, emergency, fire safety this is puzzle related to emergencies. students have to look for the words provided in the box next to the puzzle.the idea is to provide students with new vocabulary or refresh their knowledge. it ... 4 27,268 beg natural disaster joelse •environment and nature, earthquake, tsunami the first worsheet is about natural disaster problems listed, state one possible effect on health, property and economic cost. (if there is no effect for a particular category). the second w ... 4 27,110 elem put busyteacher in your inbox sign up for the busyteacher weekly and be the first to get direct links to our latest teaching articles, worksheets and lesson plans. goes out to 323,134 subscribers every wednesday. see last week's issue. yes, sign me up! thank you for joining our mailing list! three types of cv owl888 •business vocabulary, reading comprehension, creative writing prompts, emergency in this material students will look into differences and similarities of three types of cv: chronological, functional and combination. based on the information gathered from the first task student ... 11 15,265 intadv phoning in an emergency boronia •questions and short answers, crime and punishment, describing things, everyday/social english, emergency, fire safety this sheet gives students information needed to help them make an emergency phone call for fire, police and ambulance. it also helps students understand the difference between an emergency and non ... 19 36,154 elempre-intintadv video lesson: hurricane sandy ksenilika •movie + video + cartoons, emergency the lesson is based on a cnn video about hurricane sandy. after students have watched the video they have to do two vocabulary tasks. in the first task they have to fill in the gapped sentences wi ... 9 11,438 intadv environment interactive board onka77 •environment and nature, emergency this big board is an ideal tool to revise environment and nature vocabulary using an interactive board. firstly they choose points and then they see questions. when they answer questions you s ... 13 15,820 pre-int hurricane sandy daisi duck •passive voice, emergency this is an easy article i made for the children in my current class to understand what happened to the people when hurricane sandy destroyed everything, using passive voice. the pupils have to an ... 8 14,795 pre-int natural disasters gordana popovic •environment and nature, spelling, crosswords/boardgames, recycling and revising, emergency this worksheet consists of two exercises: a crossword puzzle and a gap-fill exercise. it can be used for practising or revising the vocabulary related to natural disasters. it is fun and you can c ... 26 58,407 pre-int disasters powerpoint levanova lara •environment and nature, weather, earthquake, tsunami this powerpoint presentation could be rather useful while practicing vocabulary. it includes definitions and colorful pictures of some natural disasters and a word search box to check. the presen ... 27 37,770 pre-int emergencies game rcampmor •present simple, emergency this worksheet is a review of some parts of the body and emergencies. the students play in two groups, boys against girls. each question for each group. this worksheet can be used at the end of th ... 11 16,642 pre-intint debate: seismologists vs. volcanologists toledoteacher •environment and nature, opinions, earthquake a debate worksheet about the pros and cons of living in earthquake zones vs. volcano zones, where esl students can practise and reinforce acquired terminology and concepts. brainstorming previousl ... 5 11,769 pre-intint natural disasters worksheet vanda51 •weather, emergency, earthquake, tsunami by introducing this worksheet into your classes, students will have fun learning natural disasters related vocabulary. there is a picture dictionary followed by a matching activity. 24 71,331 elempre-int natural disasters mayne •environment and nature, emergency, earthquake, tsunami it is a matching activity to teach natural disasters. students will learn the kinds of natural disasters via pictures. it is suitable for elementary and pre intermediate students. you can ask ques ... 15 34,951 elempre-int the weather and natural disasters: classroom poster vanda51 •weather, emergency this is a classroom poster which can also be used as a picture dictionary or a study sheet, for teaching or revising the weather conditions and natural disasters related vocabulary. recommended f ... 20 26,636 pre-intint disasters: find someone who istif •environment and nature, mingling activities, emergency, earthquake, tsunami mingling activity asking about different disasters, using the 'find someone who' format. it is followed by a pair or small group activity of putting disasters into categories. useful when the top ... 8 21,011 pre-intint a tremor to remember (japan 2011 earthquake / tsunami) biankis •environment and nature, movie + video + cartoons, emergency, earthquake, tsunami listening activity based on a video from cnn posted on youtube about the catastrophe that happened in japan at the beginning of the year. great when dealing with natural catastrophes. please, rate ... 33 35,217 intadvexam safety and hazards word search puzzle macidaci •emergency, fire safety a crossword to increase your students' vocabulary concerning safety and hazards. addressed to technical english students. list of words used in this word search: injure, shock, rules, hook, dange ... 7 31,717 elem natural disasters worksheet juliocutrimteacher •environment and nature, emergency get to know more about natural disasters. enlarge your vocabulary about this topic. teachers can even give their students the chance to interview partners in order to fill in the chart that f ... 14 26,666 intadv natural disasters with present perfect amada herrera •present perfect, weather, emergency this activity will help your students practice the present perfect and vocabulary related to natural disasters. this worsheet contains exercises where your students will choose the best answer, d ... 12 19,800 pre-int emergency worksheet amaraga •should/ought to, medicine and health, emergency this is a very useful worksheet to work with children when teaching the use of should and vocabulary related to illnesses. it has a variety of questions which can demand a great deal of production ... 16 39,491 elempre-int weather worksheet: billy and maria learn about winter weather - part 3 busyteacher_admin •january, february, november, december, environment and nature, weather, reading comprehension, emergency this worksheet, called 'weather worksheet: billy and maria learn about winter weather - part 3', with a sub-title 'billy and maria learn about winter storms', was originally provided by national w ... 15 18,234 begelem weather worksheet: billy and maria learn about winter weather - part 1 busyteacher_admin •january, february, november, december, environment and nature, weather, emergency this worksheet, called 'weather worksheet: billy and maria learn about winter weather - part 1', was kindly provided by national weather service, in cooperation with national oceanic and atmospher ... 7 15,684 begelempre-int got a great worksheet on emergency? tell us about it and become a busyteacher contributor! submit a worksheet previous page 1 2 3 next page busyteacher.org copyright 2007-2020 © about submit a worksheet log in terms privacy contact us mobile version working. please wait...