music uproxx musicall things hip-hop music and culture uproxx indie mixtapeindie music on uproxx uproxx pop flashpop music on uproxx backstagethe story behind the artist the rxthe music you need, right now donald glover’s ‘3.15.20’ is an eclectic experiment that defies easy categorization conan gray is the gen z pop star who writes fearless love songs — despite everything he’s been through 2020 is the year soundcloud rappers made good on their potential film/tv all film/tv uproxx tvdriving the conversations of now uproxx movieseverything new and important in film what to watchknow what’s good in streaming ‘ozark’ lights itself on fire and rises from the twisted ashes in season 3 peter segal, the director of ‘tommy boy,’ reflects back 25 years later ‘uncorked’ director prentice penny on navigating the politics of race and wine in his feature debut culture local restaurants are facing an unprecedented crisis — the american people and their government need to step up to support them a mass quarantine shines light on which workers truly matter most the pending coronavirus bailout should force airlines to care about their customers again all the statewide coronavirus closures in the us right now life/style uproxx lifetravel, food, and drinks on uproxx uproxx stylestyle on uproxx the 2020 bourbon releases we’re most looking forward to streetwear 2020: is leaving the sticker on your hat still cool? what about bending the bill? the 2020 uproxx travel hot list sports all sports dime on uproxxnba on uproxx with spandexpro wrestling on uproxx brawlermma on uproxx remembering kobe bryant, the endlessly captivating, unforgettable, and unknowable superstar todd gurley wants to do a better job of helping out because it’s always ‘bigger than football’ sue bird discusses the evolution of women’s basketball fashion and a wild wnba offseason video/podcasts talib kweli & jadakiss talk the lox, bad boy, ruff ryder, ignatius talib kweli & jpegmafia talk punk/hip-hop connection, kanye’s politics talib kweli & mc eiht talk gang life, menace ii society, tupac, dj quik beef talib kweli & rapsody talk rap influences, being pro black, kendrick, jay z, eve … follow youtube instagram twitter facebook flipboard email account my profile sign out sign up sign in info about privacy terms search for: search follow these eight travelers on snapchat and they’ll show you the world by: trevor morrow and steve bramuccifebruary 10, 2016 facebook twitter flipboard uproxx.it shutterstock if you’re of a certain age, chances are you’re on snapchat. maybe you use it to send ridiculous photos to friends, post funny images of your cat, or follow your favorite celebrities. or maybe it just sits idle on your phone because you never quite figured it out. no matter what your situation is, if you’re not currently using snapchat to virtually travel the world — and get inspired to travel in real life — you’re missing out. while instagram allows you to see beautiful moments from the road, snapchat makes the entire travel experience feel real. so, to enable your travel addiction and make your time spent on snapchat a lot more global, we’ve rounded up eight of the best travel bloggers on snapchat — a collection of vagabonds who can show you the world, one snap at a time: krista simmons (username: krista_simmons) krista simmons is a culinary adventurer and global correspondent for travel + leisure magazine. fair warning: her snaps will make you hungry. as a traveling food writer and on-camera food expert (she’s been a judge on top chef masters), krista is on a mission to uncover the world’s most delicious eats — with special attention paid to street food and far flung farmers markets. when she’s not snapping from the road, you’ll find her sharing snaps of l.a.’s diverse food scene, delicious home cooked meals, and her cute shiba inu named bento. no matter where she is, krista’s goofy and fun-loving personality make her snaps a ton of fun to watch. upcoming trips: krista is currently on an incredible, three-week culinary voyage through southeast asia. drew binsky, also known as the hungry partier (username: drewbinsky) drew, the man behind the blog the hungry partier, has been snapping his way around the world since 2012. talk about an early adopter. throughout that time, he’s visited 74 countries and given followers a behind-the-scenes look at the life of a full-time traveler (ups and downs included). as you might expect, drew’s snaps are filled with food and party scenes (dude knows his festivals), as well as introductions to the interesting characters he meets along the way. upcoming trips: over the next several months, drew will be snapping from the philippines, vietnam, fiji, vanuatu, the cook islands, thailand, bangladesh and nepal. kiersten rich, also known as the blonde abroad (username: theblondeabroad) kiersten rich is the california girl behind the solo female travel and lifestyle blog, the blonde abroad. ever since quitting her job in corporate finance, kiersten has been traveling the world in style and inspiring others to do the same. on snapchat, she shares her bubbly personality along with the unedited, everyday travel experiences behind her highly curated blog and instagram feed. between the gorgeous places she travels and her infectious good vibes, you won’t want her snap stories to end. upcoming trips: over the next several months, you’ll find kiersten snapping from bali, nyc, austria and south africa. trevor morrow (username: thetrevormorrow) trevor morrow is a travel writer with an eye of adrenaline inducing adventures, memorable meals and splurge-worthy trips. he’s also the dude behind the “dude-approved travel” blog trevor morrow travel. when he’s on the road, trevor combines video, photos, texts and emojis to craft creative and fun to watch travel narratives that entertain, inspire and inform. recently, he’s snapped from a helicopter hovering over mt. rushmore and from the top of the london eye, all the while dishing out insights you can use in your own travels. upcoming trips: over the next several months, you’ll find trevor snapping from belize, colorado, nyc, yosemite national park, india, and coastal northern california. marko and alex ayling, also known as the vagabrothers (username: vagabrothers) travelers and youtubers marko and alex ayling, also known as the vagabrothers, know a thing or two about recording their travels. while their youtube series presents a super polished look at destinations around the world, their snaps will give you an off-the-cuff and laid back view of their lives on the road. from culinary exploration to cultural discovery, you can expect a little bit of everything from the vagabrothers’ snaps. upcoming trips: currently, you can catch the vagabrothers in quebec. after that, they’ll be off to northern england, berlin, and southwest germany. hannah lukaszewicz of getting stamped (username: gettingstamped) hannah and her husband adam, who together make up the traveling duo behind the blog getting stamped, are doing it right. firstly, when they’re not traveling, they live in playa del carmen, mexico. so, you can expect jealousy-inducing snaps of the beach. also, tacos. but when they’re on the road, which they are often, you’ll see hannah in front of the snapchat camera showing off exotic destinations and giving you a look at both the glamorous and not-so-glamorous aspects of their adventures. upcoming trips: over the next few months, you’ll find hannah snapping from the great pyramids of egypt, israel’s west bank, jordan, sri lanka, and the maldives. kate mcculley, also known as adventurous kate (username: adventurouskate) kate mcculley, perhaps better known as adventurous kate, quit her job to travel the world in 2010. five years and 63 countries later, she’s still going strong. also strong: kate’s snapchat game. wherever in the world she’s snapping from, kate is 100% kate — meaning she’s not afraid to be silly and sometimes disarmingly blunt while giving you an unfiltered view of her world as a traveler. from taking you on snap tours of european cities to singing like cartman in sicily (after seeing a street named via del ghetto), kate’s snaps are sure to make you laugh. upcoming trips: over the next few months, you’ll find kate snapping from puerto rico, california and the caucasus. matthew karsten, also known as expert vagabond (username: expertvagabond) matthew karsten, the adventurous traveler behind his aptly named adventure travel blog, expert vagabond, has been globetrotting for five years. on snapchat, he shares informative and fun glimpses into his vagabond lifestyle — which almost always involve beautiful destinations and once in a lifetime travel experiences. upcoming trips: matthew is currently in norway. after that, you’ll find him in mexico and cuba. like this article? pin the image below to share it with others! facebook twitter flipboard uproxx.it topics: #social media, #traveltags: inspiration, snapchat, social media, travel around the web join discussion ⇤ back sign up sign in listen to this all the best new indie music from this week march 24, 2020by: zac gelfand all the best new pop music from this week march 24, 2020by: carolyn droke all the best new music from this week that you need to hear march 23, 2020by: derrick rossignolfacebooktwitter all the best new pop music from this week march 17, 2020by: carolyn droke all the best new indie music from this week march 17, 2020by: zac gelfand all the best new music from this week that you need to hear march 16, 2020by: derrick rossignolfacebooktwitter ×