skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us 8 biggest blogging mistakes and how to fix them fast alex nerney updated: 12/13/19 • comments: 43 home » create and go blog » blogging basics » 8 biggest blogging mistakes and how to fix them fast disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin203 shares203 let’s look at my blogging history dating back to college: ptformom.com – started right after college and lost about $1500 on website design fitnessincollege.com – started next with slightly more success (broke even) health blog #1 – lauren and i’s first blog together and we lost more than i’d care to share health blog #2 – our next blog together that we took to a consistent $20,000/month createandgo.com – our next six-figure blog, which is where we earn most of our income honestly, there were a couple of other blogs in the mix there that had some mediocre success as well. it’s safe to say that we’ve been around the block a time or two with this whole “blogging” thing. you can read more about our current success in our blog income reports. the difference between a thriving blog and a failure would you like to know the difference between a profitable blog and failed blog? lean in real close for the secret… it’s really simple… the real difference between success and failure is the speed at which you move. success comes from failing fast and learning quickly from your mistakes. that’s the key. you need to get enough momentum and wind behind your sails to propel you through the: “is there anyone that even knows i exist?” phase and just as important, the “why is no one buying from me?? i must not be good at this blogging thing” phase. these phases can make or break you. they’re so important to understand that we’ve written an entire article on the blogging phases — what we call “poop to profits“: so, how do you start off fast and furious!? well, mistakes are impossible to avoid and they’re a great learning experience. but minimizing your mistakes along the way (and especially in the beginning) will still give you a huge headstart! table of contents close open 1. using a free platform to start 2. not building an email list right away 3. writing poor headlines 4. not spending enough time on marketing your content 5. not having enough confidence in your writing 6. blogging anonymously 7. spreading yourself too thin 8. not paying attention to website speed for all of you preferred video learners out there, here is a video of this topic (plus some extra tips!) from our youtube channel below. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display:inline-block;width:0px;overflow:hidden;line-height:0;" class="mce_selres_start">&#65279;</span> 1. using a free platform to start first things first, if you’re still using a free blogging site to run your blog, you’re making the biggest mistake of all. if your domain name has a .blogger or .blogspot or .wordpress in the name, you’re in trouble. let’s illustrate the importance of this with a little story. some random guy walks up to you in a bar wearing a large black hoodie, cargo shorts, and 5-year old, beat-up sneakers. unkempt hair and bear to complete the outfit. he says to you, “i like your style. we should be friends…” in a gruff voice with no smile. at this point in the story, you’d better be slowly reaching for your mental pepper spray. this is a natural reaction to a bad presentation. now, same situation different guy. this one walks up with an air of confidence, is wearing a nice white v-neck, some well-fitting blue jeans, and some sweet black converse shoes (or gucci, if you’re into that sort of thing). he’s well-groomed from his hair to his slight stubble. with a confident smile and relaxed tone, he says, “i like your style. we should be friends.” you’ll be like… “here’s my number. and my heart…” first impressions matter – in the blogging world just as much as everywhere else. and if my first impression of you is that you won’t splurge for a $2.75/month for hosting and domain package, you are looking more and more like hank hoodie than you realize. owning your domain name and having a professional-looking blog is everything. it inspires trust and confidence. it tells me that you’re serious about running not just a blog, but a business. and there is no reason not to when blog hosting is cheap and you don’t need any coding knowledge or experience. 2. not building an email list right away the second biggest mistake most bloggers make is not building an email list as soon as possible. i remember lauren giving me pushback on this when we first made our health and wellness blog. she, like probably many of you, didn’t below to many email lists and felt like we were “bothering” people. she didn’t feel like we had anything important enough to say to bother emailing our audience every week. you cannot afford to have this mindset as a blogger. the money is in the list. here is a perfect example of how we make a lot more of our sales from our email list compared to our articles: we used a software called clickmeter to track links all over our website and email list to determine where our sales conversions were coming from. it was a time-consuming process to set up, but we learned so much from it. almost 3x as many conversions (sales) came from our email list compared to sales made directly from writing awesome blog posts. and it’s not just us. this is how most six-figure bloggers earn their income when they are selling products or services. without a doubt, email is the #1 way to turn a reader into a buyer. your email list is your way to slide into your audience’s dms. it’s how you can begin to establish a deeper relationship with them. and it’s also an asset that you own. algorithms change rapidly and often without notice. you can lose most of your traffic overnight due to these changes. but your email list? you own that. you can continue to sell products and market yourself or your company to your list even if your traffic dries up. our best recommendation (and what we personally use) for email marketing is convertkit. make sure to check out our article on building an email list if you haven’t gotten started yet: 3. writing poor headlines blog headlines matter a lot more than you probably think they do. did you know that there are full-time headline writers out there? no joke, people paid to sit in a room and think up the most compelling headlines all day… welcome to the 21st century, media folks! without a good headline, you won’t get any clicks to your site. and without clicks, there is no money. no subscribers. nothing. you can have the best content in the world, but if you don’t pair it with a good headline, no one will ever see it. you should spend a fair amount of time planning out your content with great headlines that include some good keyword research. remember that it’s not just about having clickable headlines. they should also include keywords that can potentially bring you in some searchable traffic (google, pinterest, etc.) over time. make sure to also avoid clickbait. your headlines should call out to your readers but not in such an irresistible way that they’re left feeling unsatisfied when they read your content. 4. not spending enough time on marketing your content this may matter a lot of not as much depending on where you are driving your traffic from. we drive a lot of our traffic from pinterest, so we’re going to use that as an example to illustrate this concept. headlines matter a lot, but if you’ve attached that headline to a crappy, uninspiring photo, you’re still not going to get the clicks you should. here’s an example of how much our pins stand on in the pinterest feed when you search for yoga to lose weight: and even if you’re not on pinterest… if instagram or youtube is your jam, your photos and thumbnails matter just as much there too. you can use free software like canva to create beautiful images to represent your content. 5. not having enough confidence in your writing it can be intimidating to put your content (and really yourself) out there for the world to see. we all have these thoughts when we’re getting started: what if no one cares what i have to say? how much do i really know about this? i’m not an expert. what if people see through me and leave negative comments? do you feel any of those fears about writing? we certainly did. most people that don’t have an existing background in writing will probably start off pretty shaky. but it will get better — with every article that you write. you will gain the confidence and people will thank you for your content. sure, you’ll still get the occasional nay-sayer, but the majority of your readers will leave you positive comments. just trust yourself. write like you’re having a conversation with a friend. when you write how you talk and how you feel, it gives people a better chance to actually connect with you. and not everyone is going to dig your real, authentic writing voice. but that’s okay. because the people that do will latch onto you like a child in a thunderstorm. and they are the people that matter. if you’re trying to please everyone, you’re going to end up sounding mechanical — like you’re writing to a bunch of acquaintances and not real friends. and remember: if a former personal trainer and tax accountant can write well enough to make two very different blogs successful, so can you! 6. blogging anonymously we hid behind our health and wellness blog for a while. i don’t think anyone knew who was behind our content until maybe 4-5 months after we started it. guess what happened when we came out of hiding and put our faces on our blog… more subscribers more sales more overall growth and more personal pride in our blog are you hiding behind your blog? lots of pretty images, but no photos of your face to be found… stop hiding, homeskillet. you must be more than just a blog. people need to see a face to connect with you if you want them to spend money on what you are selling on your blog. there are plenty of content publishers that get away with it but most of them rely on a business model of ad revenue from millions of views per month. this is no easy feat and not the way that the average blogger is able to successfully monetize. people need to know that there is a real person behind the words. 7. spreading yourself too thin lauren and i have made this mistake several times throughout our blogging career, and it all always leads to disaster. it’s hard because as a blogger — you’re generally a one-man team. you’re in charge of everything from traffic to sales to customer service to marketing and so on. it’s hard to do it all at once, and you really shouldn’t be to an extent. when we started our first website that eventually failed, we tried to focus on writing and traffic and creating products and selling products all at once. it was a mess and we ended up with a failed product and eventually a failed blog. the second time around, we focused on traffic first and then growing our email list with that traffic and then on monetizing the traffic and subscribers. we took the right steps in the right order. focus is key. and focusing on the right steps at the right time. focus on the #1 most important thing that you can do right now to help your blog succeed. let everything else go, temporarily, until you complete that one task. this has served us very well on our journey to six figures. 8. not paying attention to website speed this is another mistake that most new bloggers make because they focus so much on blog design and so little on the practicality and efficiency of their blog. it took us several months to realize this too. but one day, probably from reading some post like this one, we decided to check our speed with google’s page speed insights. results: our blog was moving about as fast as 2 turtles trying to race through a vat of peanut butter. this is the best stock photo i could find for “turtles in peanut butter.” what do you think? it’s food, apparently, but it doesn’t look too appetizing… anyway, let’s get back on track… low page speed can be a huge reason why your blog isn’t getting much (or more) traction. readers bouncing is no bueno. check your site speed with google or pingdom. there will likely be a lot of things that you can’t easily fix (related to your theme, javascript, and other things that only a coder can fix). but there may be some things (like your images) that you can make improvements on! here are some tips for optimizing your images: resize, crop, touch up, add borders, etc. using the free photo editing website befunky. optimize all photos before you upload them to wordpress with a tool like optimizilla or tinypng. these tools just compress the file size of your images so they take up less space on the server. finally, download a plugin like ewww image optimizer. this free plugin further reduces file sizes for images within wordpress once they are uploaded. turning your blog into a full-time business takes a lot of dedicated time and effort. we hope this article helps you avoid some of the common pitfalls that we fell into in the beginning. if you enjoyed this article on the biggest blogging mistakes or have any questions for us, please leave us a comment below! we’d love to hear from you! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin203 shares203 about alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. read this next how to start a blog in 2020 – best guide for beginners (7 easy steps) open this window to get started with bluehost now.start with bluehost nowstart now are you looking for a simple, step-by-step guide to how to start a blog and actually make money from it!? our free guide on this page will show you how to create a blog that is beautiful and functional, all in an easy step-by-step […] keep reading > similar articles blogging basics how to come up with a great blog name in 30 minutes! how much does it really cost to start a blog? (2020 update) 10 popular and profitable blog niches that still work in 2020 how much do bloggers make? like, really? [2020 edition] see all blog posts 43 leave a reply 24 comment threads 19 thread replies 2 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 28 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest beverly great article you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks, beverly! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago guest mimi hi, great work with the blog! keep sharing your tips, please! here’s my current issue: # 2. i blog in french, in the personal finance niche which, according to keywords everywhere and ubersuggest, is not very popular in terms of search… but in quebec, canada, people have debt problems just like in the us, and school doesn’t teach us how to manage our money either, so… it is a niche that has a lot of pain points, though they are not popular… i began my blog 6 months ago and have been offering 3 freebies and a first low-entry upsell… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren hey mimi. if your current free optins are not working, it’s time to try some new ones. we tested out lots of different free optins on avocadu before we found one that worked. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest nahumy mwangangi hello alex and lauren, an awesome post there! i am currently using a free wordpress blog. you just had me in mind when stating that “i am wasting my time with a free blog!” now let me ask you this please, does my location matter when it comes to getting traffic? like i am in kenya… does blogging over here in any way negatively affect my traffic? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren hey nahumy! your traffic is more dependant on your target audience than your personal location. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest dewan never get discouraged about commenting and discussing. a very thoughtful what you’ve shared in this article. it makes me remember about learning fro those who have made mistakes before. but, not all people easily wanna share their mistakes with others. fortunately, you both are not that people. i am personally really thankful for having this beautiful sharing you have made to all readers. really a teacher! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren thank you, dewan! we feel it’s important to share both our successes and failures. we are not successful because we got everything right. we are successful because we did not give up 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest angela hey alex, thanks for an excellent post and for sharing your journey with us! my biggest problem is #5 (self-confidence). i’ve been a web developer for nearly 20 years now, so i do know what i’m talking about and have created a web design blog (not live yet). my issue is – i have about 30 posts and i still keep putting off the launch out of fear. i am scared to death that someone will post negative comments or try to pick my posts apart. how do you handle it if someone posts a negative comment? and also (this… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren hey angela. unfortunately, negative comments are just going to be part of having an online presence. it’s difficult to not take the negative comments personally at first, but you eventually become numb to it. if the comments are just contradictory to your message, it can open a good dialog. if the comments are blatantly hateful in nature, referred to as internet trolls, you can delete the comments 😉 hit the live button, angela. you got this! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest drew duboff i think my favorite of alex’s blogs that wasn’t mentioned here is https://nerneysworld.wordpress.com/ 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren ha! a fitting quote from an article on that blog. “i encourage you to fail today, and to stand back up.” 😉 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest isadora i loved this post and my biggest problem is number 7 🙁 trying to work on that! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren hey isadora. we are finding that #7 is a big issue for most bloggers, including myself. hopefully, by mentioning it, we can help you guys reign in your focus. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest michael and meandy great post! point #7 really hit home with us because we’re focusing on building our traffic and our email list. until we do that, there’s no sense of us even worrying about anything else. thanks for the great tips! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren spreading yourself too thin is an easy trap to fall in. i know all too well 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest mike beatty love this one alex! i think people learn far more from what not to do than “what to do” if that makes any sense?! loving the new fb group too! so much better being in one place you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks, mike! we’ve had great feedback about moving to a single group 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest dr. nabankita hi alex! i must say, this is a very honest post. i have prioritized blogging and today i posted on my blog after 2 years!! i have missed a lot of time but i am going to make it now! an email list is very crucial. i am focusing on it along with quality and long-length content helpful for readers. also, i aim to make money from my blog in the next 6 months. fingers crossed!! you and lauren are doing a great job with blogging. your blog income reports are a huge motivation! happy blogging! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren thank you so much! i’m glad we can help motivate you! if you haven’t already done so, be sure to join our free facebook community for additional support: https://www.facebook.com/groups/createandgo/ you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest theclassneurons hi alex, i’ve been reading your blog some time now and i’m trying to grasp the loads of info a single blogger can take in 🙂 i’ve just started my own blog about education and as you’ve mentioned many times, first comes the good content, which i’ve been trying first to do. here though you said , and i quote “the second time around, we focused on traffic first and then growing our email list with that traffic and then on monetizing the traffic and subscribers.” my question is: should i focus on traffic first even though i don’t have… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago admin alex and lauren hey there! in our launch your blog course, we recommend having around 10 blog posts uploaded before your official “launch date” where you begin promoting on social media to drive traffic to the blog. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago guest dechasa(from ethiopia) thanks!i don’t have words for your advice ever! your history just looks mine, i am still struggling to be come the best blogger of the world! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago guest rachel how often should we send emails to the subscribers in the health niche? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey, rachel! this really depends on your audience and your content. i would recommend starting out with once a week and then try bumping it up to two if you have additional content to send them each week. if you don’t have any content to send them even on a weekly basis, you’ll need to lower it down to twice every couple of weeks or so. it really just depends on how often you are writing new content and/or have other things to send them (like affiliate offers). there is no perfect number of emails to send and it really… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest dan some great points, i need to get my fb group started….i’m gonna do it now! thanks for a great post. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest asad meah great info, thanks. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest mrs math thank you for saying “trust your voice. you are enough.” i vacillate between being supremely confident and drowning in self doubt. thank you for that message. i needed to hear it. and btw, i love love love your blog and content. it’s easy to read, chock full of useful information, and i feel your authenticity. i was reading your material from midnight-4am, and have been back at it this afternoon. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren thanks so much! we appreciate it!! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest doma i love the way you guys write and there is always something to take home from your articles. my biggest crime in blogging to not starting an email newsletter. thanks for this awesome read. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren start right away!!! it’s so important! we have an article here on the subject titled “how to build an email list: 5 best ways to get subscribers on your blog”. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest brittany hey guys, thank you so much for all of the information! i”m just starting out and i’m hella nervous but really want my husband and i to be able to have another income stream to help pay our debt. the visual content is the most difficult things for me to grasp. i looked at shutterstock and really, can’t afford the prices. do you have any recommendations for less expensive ways to produce good visual content, at least when first beginning a blog? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey brittany, i totally get it. we don’t use shutterstock anymore for similar reasons. we use bigstockphoto.com at the moment. they have less of a selection, but it’s about less than half of what we were paying for shutterstock. still a great deal! hope that helps! -lauren you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest samsandy great tips and i’ve been following your advice of coming from a place of just really wanting to help. it’s a lot easier when you’re blogging to truly help people. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest sandy i stumbled upon your website as a brand new blogger trying to learn how to navigate pinterest. i can’t stop reading your articles. they are a wealth of information!! thank you for sharing your knowledge. it is invaluable to a newbie just trying to learn the ropes. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thanks, sandy! so glad you’re enjoying them! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest prithvi(earth) hello alex & lauren i am earth from india i love your content its show your hard work and dedication to your work actually i am not good in english and i always do grammatical mistake and i don’t express my content in the blogs so plez help and guide me to how to be move from grammatical errors and mistakes. and also make my content attractive to a reader… you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren it’s probably a better idea to look into starting a blog in your native language to avoid too many grammatical mistakes. a blog written in english should be as grammatically correct as possible. if you aren’t comfortable with your skill level of grammar and punctuation in english, you can work on it, but it would likely be a lot easier to just target people that speak your native language. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest hena guys i’m so glued to your site…been stalking yous for a while and i’ve become a big fan. thank you so much for your honest and indepth insight. and i used tinypng to reduce my inage sizes, gonna try optimizilla now. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thank you, hena!!! we always love to hear this! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest aravind hi guys, this post was really inspiring. thanks. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest luca hey guys really interesting post, i was wondering, when you write a post do you always look for keywords or just write what comes to your mind? i’m just starting out and everything is so confusing sometimes! thanks! luca. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 years ago admin alex and lauren hey luca, it’s a mixture of both! we always do keyword research before writing a new article, but we generally write new articles based on the topics that are readers are requesting and/or most interested in. we start there, and then we look for keywords that relate to the topic. hope that helps! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 years ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents 1. using a free platform to start 2. not building an email list right away 3. writing poor headlines 4. not spending enough time on marketing your content 5. not having enough confidence in your writing 6. blogging anonymously 7. spreading yourself too thin 8. not paying attention to website speed footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz