home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance search emerging education technologies home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance home collaboration & brainstorming 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons... 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring by kelly walsh - october 5, 2014 79 share facebook twitter dozens of free web tools and ideas that can pack a technology integration punch and kick those lessons up a notch are you tired of delivering the same old lectures on the same subjects year after year? are you using the same lesson materials over and over and wishing you could make learning in your classroom more interactive? while lectures and lessons can be informative and even “edutaining” when delivered with passion and good materials by knowledgeable experts, sadly many traditional lectures and lessons are boring, and even worse often ineffective. the good news is that the web is loaded with great free tools that can enable teachers to bring a sense of fun and engagement to their lessons. of course, you do need devices with internet access to give these tools a try. even if you don’t have computers or tablets available in your classroom, the fact that an increasing number of high school and college students have smartphones is making it easier than ever to leverage technology to create engaging, active lessons students enjoy working on. for younger grades, if you don’t have access to devices with web access, perhaps you can access a computer lab by request, or use devices in your library. here’s a whole bunch of ideas for leveraging technology to kick those lessons up a notch! 1. incorporate student input & gather feedback there are many applications that allow students to provide live feedback. a lot of them can be used from smartphones. you can also gather feedback by creating a “back channel” using twitter. quick, easy polling applications: polldaddy and polleverywhere are two of many applications that make it quick and easy to create simple polls that can let you gather feedback from students – determine if they are struggling with a topic, if they know the correct answers to questions you ask, and so on. they can often participate in these polls using a smartphone. take it up a notch with socrative: socrative is a powerful free app that lets you go well beyond simple polls to more elaborate quizzes, or just use it to gather quick and easy feedback. learn more here. plickers: this is a pretty cool lo-tech approach to collecting student responses during class that doesn’t require students to use technology. learn more here. twitter: twitter is a great way to gather input by creating an easy to use ‘backchannel’. this is great for students with smartphones (they will need the twitter app and an account). simply create a unique hashtag and have students post feedback to twitter using that hashtag. 2. gamify it leveraging gaming mechanics that can make learning more fun is probably easier than you think. any time you bring competition or levels of achievement to a classroom exercise, you’re adding an element of ‘gamification'. for a simple example, in one recent assignment in my classroom, i had students search through an interactive computer history timeline for specific facts. the first student to correctly identify a fact (like “what was the first computer bug?”) that i had them seek out “won” for that question! of course, gamification can be leveraged in much richer ways. here’s a variety of resources and ideas for using gaming in the classroom: 4 ways to bring gamification of education to your classroom 10 specific ideas to gamify your classroom make your own jeopardy game check out these posts and resources for using minecraft and world of warcraft in the classroom. 3. let students create there are so many fun free tools and apps available today that can let students create all kinds of awesome digital content. below is diversified set of different article and resources that share different tools and ideas for students (and teachers) to create digital content – presentations, interactive digital posters, ebooks, videos, and more. in the spirit of creating in the classroom, we also included an article introducing the burgeoning makerspace movement in education. powtoon – a powerful free tool for creating awesome animated presentations unleashing creativity with ibooks author (video) (note: this is specific to the mac). this article discusses student uses of tools including prezi, powtoon, and powerpoint in a class i taught last fall. getting to know the makerspace movement in education 4. get interactive many teachers enjoy using interactive tools with their students. here’s a few tools and ideas to consider. online interactive white boards: did you know that there are several good free interactive whiteboards available online? if you have a computer and a projector, you can make them work a lot like a “smart board”. some of these applications even allow students to log on online and collaboratively edit content. check out these 6 online iwbs to explore this idea further. bounceapp (bounceapp.com): you can review, notate, and share any web page with bounceapp. just paste a web page address into the “app” and it turns it into an interactive screenshot where students can jot ideas. interactive apps that work with smartphones: many of the tools in this article work on smartphones! if you happen to have a physical white board in your classroom, get more out of it with these creative ideas. explore additional tool and ideas in this popular article that we published earlier this year. 5. have students collaborate getting students to work together as partners, in small groups, or maybe even as one large group, teaches them about team work. collaborative work can be fun. it is even possible to collaborate with students across the world thanks to many of today’s technologies. here are a number of tools and techniques for classroom collaborations. share writing and encourage feedback with newsactivist: newsactivist is a free tool that lets teachers set up their students with a private area where they can write about selected subjects. you can enables them to share what their write with just their classmates, or with the larger audience of students from across the world using newsactivist. students can then provide feedback on other students’ writings. learn more in this brief article. collaborative document editing with google drive (drive.google.com): google drive lets you share and collaboratively edit google docs with anyone else who has a google account, for free. this is a powerful capability. collaborative mind mapping with mindmeister (mindmeister.com): this applications lets users easily create mind maps that can be edited collaboratively. collaborative research: working in pairs or small groups to find, assess, summarize, and present content in specific topic areas make for a great learning experience and assignment. 6. project based learning when students apply what they are learning to projects that they undertake, the topics they are learning about can take on a much deeper meaning. not only does the activity and the increased sensory exposure of project work help to stimulate the mind, the extended time often required of project work, and the visible, tangible results further reinforce learning. here are two excellent, rich resources for further exploration of pbl from teachthought.com: 12 timeless project-based learning resources a better list of ideas for project-based learning 7. simulations simulations can be a powerful addition to the classroom. since they tend to be somewhat complicated, they are typically suited towards high school, college, or post-graduate or professional studies. here are some examples of simulations being used in education: economics: this site, economic-games.com, offers free online classroom games for teaching economics. marketing: have you ever wished you could give your marketing students the chance to practice different e-marketing skills and techniques? check out simbound. medical: simulations have been a significant teaching and learning tool in the medical field for many years. harvard medical school has even created a web site focused on their use of simulations. business: business simulation games are a great way to bring active, applied learning into business courses. 8. bring in a guest or two with the power of video conferencing apps like skype, google hangout, facetime, and others, our ability to connect with people all across the world has never been better or less costly. teachers have been using skype and similar tools to being guest lecturers, experts, students, and others into the classroom for years. nothing breaks up the monotony of “same old thing” like an enthusiastic subject matter expert from another county or a room full of students from another continent! the skype in the classroom showcase find a teacher or other expert to skype with google hangouts guide for teachers check out this great video about skype in the classroom. this is a perfect way to wrap up this post about leveraging tech in the classroom to make lessons captivating, fun, and exciting! be sure to tell us about some of your favorite ways to make lessons more fun with the help of today's powerful instructional technologies! related posts (if the above topic is of interest, you might want to check these out): 10 pretty awesome things you can do with powerpoint add voice over to powerpoint presentations in 5 easy steps 20 fun free tools for interactive classroom collaboration related posts 8 techniques and tools for creating lessons that actively engage students come explore free web apps for interactive classroom collaboration (friday july 6th at noon est) 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) 3 minute teaching with tech tutorial – socrative (student response system) tags create exciting lessons with technology create fun lessons using technology engaging lessons integrate technology integrate technology in lessons share facebook twitter tweet previous articleipad workflow in the elementary classroom – 6 techniques and tips next articletop 5 reasons to attend the 2014 teaching & learning with the ipad conference kelly walsh https://www.emergingedtech.com kelly walsh is chief information officer and ciso at the college of westchester, in white plains, ny, where he also teaches. in 2009, walsh founded emergingedtech.com. he frequently delivers presentations and training on a variety of education and technology topics at schools and conferences across the u.s. walsh is a flipped learning network board member. he also writes regularly for university business magazine. in his "spare time" he writes, records, and performs original music ... stop by kwalshmusic.com and have a listen! [disclaimer: the opinions expressed here are my own, or those of other writers, and not those of my employer. - k. walsh] 79 comments five creative ways to use technology in your classroom - skaidon february 21, 2020 at 10:38 am […] you ever heard of gamified learning before? if you haven’t, you have come to the right place! when a teacher uses a certain type […] 2019 emergingedtech year in review: your faves & my faves | emerging education technologies december 30, 2019 at 11:13 am […] 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring […] action and expression: the how | introduction to universal design for learning december 16, 2019 at 2:41 pm […] https://www.emergingedtech.com/2014/10/technology-create-lessons-that-arent-boring/ […] edtech trends (and an eboook!) – bibliothèque november 3, 2019 at 8:55 pm […] lessons that aren’t boring. retrieved november 3, 2019, from https://www.emergingedtech.com/2014/10/technology-create-lessons-that-arent-boring/ […] kelly walsh october 8, 2019 at 7:53 am glad you found that helpful deniz! deniz yenigun october 7, 2019 at 9:57 am hi, the idea of using simulations to promote our students learning capability is really great! especially for flipped classroom teaching, those simulations will help us engage our learners much easier than before! thanks technology in the classroom: benefits and best practices - it1 september 10, 2019 at 11:35 am […] are absolutely staggering. emerging ed tech contributor kelly walsh noted that among these are online simulations that can help students practice a range of skills, from marketing and business to statistics and […] kelly walsh september 4, 2019 at 3:00 pm thanks haley – indeed, simulations can be a powerful and engaging learning aid! hayley september 4, 2019 at 10:03 am i like the idea of using simulations in order to help students learn information! using these will be really helpful to have students take what they are learning and apply it to real world situations. i also think it will help them to be interested and engaged in what they are learning since it requires more focus on the activity. how different is your current classroom from the one in which you learned when you were a student? – ali at the top of the world june 5, 2019 at 6:53 pm […] walsh, k. (2014). 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring. emergingedtech. retrieved june 5, 2019 from https://www.emergingedtech.com/2014/10/technology-create-lessons-that-arent-boring/ […] where to find free teaching materials for your adult education classes february 15, 2019 at 7:18 pm […] emerging ed teach (technology) […] eight engaging ways to use technology in the classroom – esocsci development april 26, 2018 at 4:48 am […] re-posted from emerging edtech […] teaching career - nursery march 24, 2018 at 11:00 am […] want to use technology to engage your students, and you want to use technology because it helps provide different types of instruction. keep in […] kondeti madhavi january 30, 2018 at 1:17 am thanks for sharing innovative technology to improve teaching methods dr. kondeti madhavi professor and head of biochemistry tirupati ap.india putting the pieces together for my innovation plan – one dad's journey december 22, 2017 at 11:22 am […] walsh, k. (2014, october 5). awesome free ed tech resources ebook! retrieved august 12, 2016, from https://www.emergingedtech.com/2014/10/technology-create-lessons-that-arent-boring/ […] eight engaging ways to use technology in the classroom | december 18, 2017 at 6:03 pm […] re-posted from emerging edtech […] i’m not flipping my lid, just the classroom – one dad's journey december 17, 2017 at 11:53 pm […] walsh, k. (2014, october 5). awesome free ed tech resources ebook! retrieved august 12, 2016, from https://www.emergingedtech.com/2014/10/technology-create-lessons-that-arent-boring/ […] international residential school december 11, 2017 at 7:16 am all the 8 points you’ve shared in your article is very helpful for me to make my students to keep away from bored. thanks! kelly walsh november 3, 2017 at 6:44 am thanks jenna – absolutely, bringing guests speakers in from anywhere in the world is an amazing benefit of video conferencing tools! jenna comeau november 2, 2017 at 8:05 am i absolutely love all of these ideas, especially the one about bringing in outside guests to the classroom via skype, google chat, etc. i never thought of how skype could be used to connect with an outside speaker who may not be able to come into the school and how this would really enhance student’s education. i always loved having key speakers so the fact that there are more options to bring in speakers from various places, even for a shorter period of time is truly incredible. sonam september 16, 2017 at 4:34 am nice lesson and list, thanks for putting nice effort 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring | emerging education technologies – patep's collection of teaching & learning articles august 8, 2017 at 6:27 pm […] source: 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring | emerging… […] 10 techniques to ensure that your lessons are as dull as dish water - the edvocate november 29, 2016 at 4:33 pm […] 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring […] educational technology | pearltrees november 6, 2016 at 3:36 pm […] we have several 'how-to' tutorials on our youtube channel: venngage tutorials playlist watch the 5 minute 'getting started with venngage' guide: watch the full 20-minute walkthrough on how to create an infographic: help center: 5 step getting started article: still need help? how it works – kahoot! how to get started using quora – quora. 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring. […] 8 techniques and tools for creating lessons that actively engage students — emerging education technologies november 1, 2016 at 7:00 am […] couple years ago, i wrote the article 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring. this article offers dozens of powerful free tech tools, and ideas for using them to create fun […] dr. nerd mom reviews video games – nerd mom september 23, 2016 at 4:40 pm […] for reading, math, music, and standardized testing. teachers are now inviting students to bring their electronic devices to class to create collaborative learning environments. and finally students are learning how to navigate […] literature review – one dad's journey august 16, 2016 at 7:23 pm […] walsh, k. (2014, october 5). awesome free ed tech resources ebook! retrieved august 12, 2016, from https://www.emergingedtech.com/2014/10/technology-create-lessons-that-arent-boring/ […] integrating fun technology aimed to learn – marisela135 august 15, 2016 at 1:23 pm […] we hope this tools can be helpful to teachers who visit our site. “ignoring is not an option” you can find all the sites in this link .link […] digital collaboration and engagement – blair_b august 7, 2016 at 7:27 pm […] in addition to already skimming my new ebook, i have visited a few of the blog posts, including, 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring and education technology & teaching tweet wrap. i am eager to learn more about emergingedtech […] « older comments leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here * search the site! * get a copy of the free education technology resources ebook as our thank you for subscribing to our blog posts! subscribe name: email: we respect your email privacy categories categories select category 3 minute teaching with tech tip (video tutorials) 3d printing in education adaptive learning administrative solutions artificial intelligence assessment augmented reality, virtual reality best education and technology videos blogs & blogging book reviews collaboration & brainstorming comics and cartooning competency based education cyber safety awareness and prevention digital badges digital literacy education technology success stories educational games & gamification electronic portfolios facebook (classroom and instructional uses) financial literacy awareness flipping the classroom (reverse instruction) fln hub syndicated posts free tools & resources future of education technology interactive white boards interviews – education technology thought leaders ipads and other tablet devices iphones and smartphones learning analytics learning management & course management systems lecture capture making the case for education technologies mobile learning resources moocs (massive open online courses) morning motivation open educational resources oer picture and image editing podcasting, vodcasting, & video hosting polls, surveys portals powerpoint presentation tools professional development project based learning screencasting social media & social learning special needs students story telling & timelines student centered learning student response systems teaching coding twitter uncategorized workshops & conferences _ miscellaneous tools and topics emergingedtech on social media 9,687fanslike 320followersfollow 9,733followersfollow 2,290subscriberssubscribe popular posts 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle the multiple uses of augmented reality in education 20 fun free tools for interactive classroom collaboration mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring come explore the flipped learning network! recognition for emergingedtech! even more news how to get your students to perform better – the scientific... march 27, 2020 5 things schools should do to help ensure student data privacy march 24, 2020 the bright side of remote teaching and administration – when preparation... march 20, 2020 popular category _ miscellaneous tools and topics502 free tools & resources502 future of education technology315 making the case for education technologies283 ipads and other tablet devices259 professional development239 iphones and smartphones200 ©