home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance search emerging education technologies home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance home making the case for education technologies 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle by kelly walsh - april 20, 2015 166 share facebook twitter examples of applying the samr model can help teachers understand and embrace it the samr model for integrating technology into teaching, developed by dr. ruben puentedura, has gained a good deal of exposure in recent years. “samr” is an acronym that stands for substitution, augmentation, modification, and redefinition. the samr model provides a technique for moving through degrees of technology adoption to find more meaningful uses of technology in teaching and move away from simply using “tech for tech’s sake”. we recently discussed the samr model during an academic technology work group meeting at the college of westchester. we examined the video, samr in 120 seconds. one thing that really struck me is how much the example helped, so i made it a point to gather and/or create some more examples. following are 8 examples of the samr process, each taking an example of a typical classroom exercise that does not use technology and walking it through each phase of samr. for half of these, i searched and borrowed from examples that teachers had written about online (original sources are provided – in some cases i tweaked the example a bit). i also created examples of my own. in working through this, it became apparent to me that while substitution and augmentation can be relatively straightforward conceptually, there is even more room for interpretation when it comes to modification and redefinition. the goal of this exercise was to help me (and readers) better understand the samr model, and to really see how lessons and assessments can be transformed while considering the benefits of evolving them through these stages. i find it particularly interesting to see the vast difference in between the original lesson and the redefined lesson … there is often a much wider range of skills required in the latter stages, and lessons can become much more engaging and collaborative when modified or redefined. lesson: writing a short paper taken from: http://www.educatorstechnology.com/2013/08/samr-model-explained-through-examples.html. original assignment: a hand written paper. substitution: a word processor replaces a pen/pencil in a writing assignment. augmentation: a word processor and text-to-speech function are used to improve the writing process. modification: the document created using the word processor and text-to-speech function is shared on a blog where feedback can be received and incorporated to help improve the quality of writing. redefinition: instead of a written assignment, students convey analytic thought using multimedia tools. lesson: geography & travel a modification of an idea found at https://edofict.wikispaces.com/samr+examples. original assignment: an overview of a location consisting of hand written content supplemented with compiled cut-and-pasted magazine clippings. substitution: use presentation software (like powerpoint or prezi) to construct a presentation providing information about a selected locale. augmentation: incorporate interactive multimedia – audio, video, hyperlinks – in the presentation to give more depth and provide more engaging presentation. modification: create a digital travel brochure that incorporates multimedia and student created video. redefinition: explore the locale with google earth; seek out and include interviews with people who have visited the local. lesson: understanding shakespeare taken from: https://edofict.wikispaces.com/samr+examples and modified. original assignment: read a shakespeare play in traditional printed format. substitution: read shakespeare texts online. augmentation: use online dictionaries, study guides, history sites, to supplement reading. modification: use multimedia resources like text, audio, and video tools to jointly construct knowledge, learning, and understanding of a portion of a play, or a character, as a group project. redefinition: answer the question, “what did the culture of the time have on the writing of shakespeare’s plays” my using a concept mapping tool and constructing a mind map demonstrating key elements through words and images. an assessment exercise idea taken from: https://sites.google.com/a/msad60.org/technology-is-learning/samr-model and slightly modified. in this example, we take a simple form of assessment and evolve it into a collaborative group project. original assignment: take a quiz, answers handwritten in a printed form. substitution: distribute the quiz in a word processor file format and have student fill in answers on a computer. augmentation: use a google form to deliver and complete the quiz. “there is some functional benefit here in that paper is being saved, students and teacher can receive almost immediate feedback on student level of understanding of material. this level starts to move along the teacher / student centric continuum. the impact of immediate feedback is that students may begin to become more engaged in learning.“ modification: as an alternative form of assessment, students could be asked to write an essay around a relevant theme. the written essay could then be narrated and captured as vocal recording. redefinition: “a classroom is asked to create a documentary video answering an essential question related to important concepts. teams of students take on different subtopics and collaborate to create one final product. teams are expected to contact outside sources for information.” following are some example lessons, evolved through the samr model, that i have tried my hand at creating. it's easy to get caught up in worrying about how effectively an approach constitutes “modification” or “redefinition”, but that's not the point of the exercise. to my way of thinking, it's more about understanding the difference between a just replacing or augmenting a “paper” lesson with a “digital” one and actually evolving it in a beneficial way and exploring new possibilities. lesson: art/painting original assignment: drawing a picture using traditional brush, paint, paper. of course, there is a a big difference between doing this “by hand” in the traditional manner and doing it digitally – digitally is by no means “better”, it is just different and opens up some interesting possibilities. substitution: use a digital drawing/painting program (like ms paint) to draw/paint a picture. augmentation: use a tool that allows the creation of your masterpiece to be “played back” (like educreations, for example). modification: pull a background image to use as a “canvas” – you could even scan something hand drawn and use that. redefinition: create artwork collaboratively using a collaborative online whiteboard (like twiddla or one of these other tools). lesson: email etiquette original lesson: review printed copies of email etiquette concepts and guidelines. substitution: students read an online article discussing email etiquette concepts and guidelines. augmentation: student read an online article discussing email etiquette concepts and guidelines that includes links to examples, and offer comments online indicating their top 5 favorite tips. modification: student watch a video discussing email etiquette concepts and guidelines and after reviewing the guidelines, they create a twitter account and tweet their top 5 tips. redefinition: student watch the guidelines video, then assess examples of email etiquette ‘violations’ and indicate which guidelines should be applied to correct/improve on the examples. lesson: learning fractions original assignment: show understanding of fractions on a worksheet by coloring in blocks. substitution: use an excel worksheet to let students “color in” the blocks. augmentation: use google sheets to let students “color in” the blocks, where the teacher can offer feedback directly on google sheets. modification: use google sheets and direct students to online examples and supplementary learning materials for areas that they might struggle with. redefinition: use a fractions app instead (here are a handful of examples for ios devices). lesson: phys ed – learning to hit a baseball well original assignment: learning how to hit a baseball by watching and listening to a coach or phys ed instructor show you and then trying it yourself. substitution: the coach/teacher videos the training exercise and uses this as the lesson. augmentation: the coach/teacher videos the training exercise and provides links to other training content (videos and articles from other coaches, etc). modification: the coach/teacher videos the training exercise and “flips” the lesson, having students watch it as homework, and using class time to practice and reinforce techniques. redefinition: students watch video examples and practice the techniques, then the coach/teacher videos them hitting balls and provides feedback about their technique. hopefully these example of lessons modified through the samr cycle help to encourage you to think about how you leverage technology to make some of your lessons more interactive, collaborative, and engaging with some of the many great technology tools available today! here’s a set of tools that may be helpful when working to evolve your lessons: 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools). creative commons license image source. related posts selecting the best apps for teaching and learning – use a rubric! augmented reality – the coolest instructional technology you haven't heard of? rethinking mobile learning – behind the scenes on a successful mobile campus 5 web based non-profits for classroom teacher donations and gifts tags examples for applying samr samr examples samr model explains with examples samr model illustrated with examples share facebook twitter tweet previous articlehow your students can know what’s due next articlewe have to stop pretending … #makeschooldifferent kelly walsh https://www.emergingedtech.com kelly walsh is chief information officer and ciso at the college of westchester, in white plains, ny, where he also teaches. in 2009, walsh founded emergingedtech.com. he frequently delivers presentations and training on a variety of education and technology topics at schools and conferences across the u.s. walsh is a flipped learning network board member. he also writes regularly for university business magazine. in his "spare time" he writes, records, and performs original music ... stop by kwalshmusic.com and have a listen! [disclaimer: the opinions expressed here are my own, or those of other writers, and not those of my employer. - k. walsh] 166 comments urooj shahbaz february 23, 2020 at 7:32 am if the teacher is leveraging the video to make changes to the lesson that were not possible with alternative materials like a text book, then this could constitute augmentation or modification. for example, if the students were asked to discuss or make observations about what they saw in the video, this opens the door to creating a more meaningful experience. if the video features people talking or interacting, you have elements like tone of voice, accent, body english, etc., that would not be present in a text book. even if the students could just have an online discussion about the video, this could be considered augmentation. it really comes down to how the alternative, technology-infused approach is used as an opportunity to augment, modify, or ultimately reinvent the non-tech approach it replaced samr model: a practical guide for edtech integration | popkids | february 22, 2020 at 8:12 am […] the samr model is a framework created by dr. ruben puentedura that categorizes four different degrees of classroom technology integration. the letters “samr” stand for substitution, augmentation, modification, and redefinition. the samr model was created to share a common language across disciplines as teachers strive to help students visualize complex concepts. […] kelly walsh february 5, 2020 at 8:00 am hi gilbert – great question! i think that in the best case scenario, this should certainly be the case. while there is probably no direct relationship between the move from substitution to redefinition, i think that teachers who are purposely working to enhance lessons in this way are often the same kinds of teachers who are also working to move to a more student-centered classroom! gilbert february 5, 2020 at 1:46 am just wondering if the movement from s to r tends to coincide with the movement from teacher to student centric? although i can definitely think of instances where substitution happens for student centric pedagogies…. eg. differentiated instruction is designed with different questions/activities based on readiness in a station based learning situation. this can be done via pen and paper. if ipads were employed instead of pen and paper without change to activities and questions, then substitution would have happened in this already student centric lesson… kelly walsh february 4, 2020 at 8:41 am thanks for the feedback kamila. one can easily get bogged down in semantics discussions about how much one change or another is an “s”,”m”,”a”, or “r”, i was just hoping to provide some ideas here to get teachers thinking about the levels of tech integration and how they can change the nature of an assignment. as for the color in the blocks idea, one sees this on paper worksheets commonly, so the idea here was about converting it to a spreadsheet application. if you can do that in a collaborative tool like google sheets, then you allow for communication and collaboration right within the tool, which is clearly a significant transformation of the assignment from the plain paper worksheet version. unfortunately, i cannot find an example of this written about online. do you have more questions about it? i assume you are asking more about how google sheets is used and perhaps the collaboration part of this idea? this page provides some insights into that: https://support.google.com/docs/answer/9331169. hope that helps! ms. jamila kai mathis february 1, 2020 at 1:17 am this is a great article, i think we need more of these examples on the internet. nevertheless, i find the math example about fractions to be lacking. i think when high-quality teachers have introduced fractions they use many concepts that are available in the apps. hence, i see the app more as a substitution/augmentation than modification/redefinition. i am interested more in learning the google app usage to have students “color in” the blocks. do you have any resources for this activity? wajiha shakil butt january 25, 2020 at 4:11 pm very effective resource farzeen hassan january 20, 2020 at 10:05 am using samr in routine lesson to make it easier and interesting for students is really useful. 2019 emergingedtech year in review: your faves & my faves | emerging education technologies december 30, 2019 at 11:13 am […] 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle […] kelly walsh december 30, 2019 at 8:56 am that is a vital question malahi. the goal is certainly to enhance learning while ultimately transforming lessons. maliha zaidi december 30, 2019 at 2:04 am does it help students for learning? kelly walsh november 21, 2019 at 8:10 am hi khan – if the teacher is just substituting the video for alternative materials without bringing anything else new to the process, then yes, it is just substitution. if the teacher is leveraging the video to make changes to the lesson that were not possible with alternative materials like a text book, then this could constitute augmentation or modification. for example, if the students were asked to discuss or make observations about what they saw in the video, this opens the door to creating a more meaningful experience. if the video features people talking or interacting, you have elements like tone of voice, accent, body english, etc., that would not be present in a text book. even if the students could just have an online discussion about the video, this could be considered augmentation. it really comes down to how the alternative, technology-infused approach is used as an opportunity to augment, modify, or ultimately reinvent the non-tech approach it replaced. khan november 20, 2019 at 6:24 pm what level of samr it is when teacher simply uses a video in her lesson on a topic? my apprehension is that if it a substitution level then how will students learning be gauges since they are only watching that video. crafted teaching, splendid learning - inspiring learning november 13, 2019 at 10:46 am […] transforming teaching objects for the digital age using samr […] peacebrix, apps, design thinking – lectric library october 30, 2019 at 12:20 pm […] 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle | emerging education technologies […] chasing success – langlands 2.0 october 27, 2019 at 12:47 am […] understanding? and does it help students use tech tools in more meaningful ways?” a trip to emergingedtech helped get the neurons firing about this topic […] « older comments leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here * search the site! * get a copy of the free education technology resources ebook as our thank you for subscribing to our blog posts! subscribe name: email: we respect your email privacy categories categories select category 3 minute teaching with tech tip (video tutorials) 3d printing in education adaptive learning administrative solutions artificial intelligence assessment augmented reality, virtual reality best education and technology videos blogs & blogging book reviews collaboration & brainstorming comics and cartooning competency based education cyber safety awareness and prevention digital badges digital literacy education technology success stories educational games & gamification electronic portfolios facebook (classroom and instructional uses) financial literacy awareness flipping the classroom (reverse instruction) fln hub syndicated posts free tools & resources future of education technology interactive white boards interviews – education technology thought leaders ipads and other tablet devices iphones and smartphones learning analytics learning management & course management systems lecture capture making the case for education technologies mobile learning resources moocs (massive open online courses) morning motivation open educational resources oer picture and image editing podcasting, vodcasting, & video hosting polls, surveys portals powerpoint presentation tools professional development project based learning screencasting social media & social learning special needs students story telling & timelines student centered learning student response systems teaching coding twitter uncategorized workshops & conferences _ miscellaneous tools and topics emergingedtech on social media 9,687fanslike 320followersfollow 9,733followersfollow 2,290subscriberssubscribe popular posts 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle the multiple uses of augmented reality in education 20 fun free tools for interactive classroom collaboration mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring come explore the flipped learning network! recognition for emergingedtech! even more news how to get your students to perform better – the scientific... march 27, 2020 5 things schools should do to help ensure student data privacy march 24, 2020 the bright side of remote teaching and administration – when preparation... march 20, 2020 popular category _ miscellaneous tools and topics502 free tools & resources502 future of education technology315 making the case for education technologies283 ipads and other tablet devices259 professional development239 iphones and smartphones200 ©