menu weight loss healthy living supplements equipment resources home healthy living 8 reasons why am i so fat and tips for weight loss review 2020 8 reasons why am i so fat and tips for weight loss review 2020 abbey january 1, 2020 share pin when we ask ourselves “why am i so fat”.so many reasons come out. in this review i am going to through 8 reasons trying to help answer the question why am i fat, and look at how we can measure them. also, some tips and references to aid you on your weight loss journey and changing the question why am i so fat to the statement.i look so amazing. below are the top 10 reasons why am i so fat poor sleep cortisol stress leptin insensitivity food allergies and food intolerances low thyroid too many calories not enough calories not enough movement “the ability of the human body to burn fat at an extremely high efficiency” why am i so fat poor sleep if there is one reason why am i so fat. not getting enough sleep is massive. 25% of your daily energy expenditure happens when you are asleep. this is the point at which your body has its management meeting to address and improve any problems. after 4 hours of a dark sleep ( the body has many light receptors the led on a tv can disrupt the dark factor in your room). the lights in your house and on your phone will tell the body receptor that it is still day time. tips to address this. from 7 pm turn all overhead lights off and on use low lit lamp. turn down the light setting on your phones and pads. try not to use them after 8 pm.once you reach the 4-hour mark your body starts to produce melatonin. if your stress levels are high it can disrupt this. tip for this keep a pad of paper and pen next to the bed and any major through you have to write in down and look at it in the morning. following the melatonin production. leptin enters the hypothalamus and stimulates the thyroid and helps increases the metabolism and helps the release of growth hormones. which in turn promotes the use of your body fat for energy while you are asleep. when optimal sleep has not been reached the body starts to produce the hunger hormone ghrelin. which manages appetite and regulates leptin. also, lack of sleep will increase the stress hormone cortisol and lower testosterone. how much sleep should i get? the body goes through 90 min cycles when sleeping. on average in one week.35 cycles are needed for health.9-12 hours. why am i so fat cortisol stress when talking about stress. i always have to remember that you need a certain amount of stress for our body systems to learn. for examples exercise. remember that we exercise for the body to learn and adapt to the stress we are putting it under. in this new world, we keep pushing the boundaries of stress to the point of no recovery. when we create stress we create a catabolic (fight or flight) window of a breakdown in the body. when we rest and recovery we create an anabolic (rest and digest) window of development. when we are looking at fat loss the hormone cortisol is key. also, know as your natural pain killer. cortisol advises the liver the released sugar, in turn, the pancrase will release insulin. if this happens too much it will lead to becoming insulin resistance. this will have an impact on a person’s health and vitality. you may even see a drop in body fat % but not a drop in weight. tips.train smarter not harder.for every hard training session.double the rest time.for every long stressful day. decrease the volume of your training session by 10%. why am i so fat leptin insensitivity as we have read earlier.leptin work in harmine with ghrelin.the balance of your hunger and appetite. when the leptin becomes insensitive it can affect your fat stores. large calorie intake can stress the leptin which can stimulate high insulin levels. following a large release of leptin. this creates a pro-inflammatory environment. which will help with free radicals and cell damage. so when we are managing our food intake. we have to be aware of leptin and ghrelin. tip 1 never eat in a rush. tip 2 always sit down when eating. tip 3 chew food at least 35 times first. why am i so fat food allergies and food intolerances food allergies and food intolerance.number one rule with this area. is that if you love the food rotate it. if we were to take a hundred people. then asked then for a food diary for over 3 months. we will find that they have a focused plan of 10 repeated meals and repeated habits. so when this happens there is a high chance of the body building up allergies or intolerance to food. so when you rotate or cycle your food. it gives your gut a chance to cycle that piece or group of food out of your system. another reason for this happening is when there is a lack of digestive enzymes. which can lead to undigested food particles, leaky gut. which will create an unhappy environment. affecting the process of digestion which is key to weight loss. you are what you can not eliminate. why am i so fat low thyroid the thyroid the master regulator of the body. the thyroid supports the brain and carries out the operational information from the brain. you could call the thyroid the cfo of the body. managing the cardiovascular system, bone, and glucose metabolism and a whole host of other systems trying to create homeostasis in the body. due to the different types of stress, people are under. it can create a high and low impact on individual thyroid health. we are looking at low thyroid health. which has a big impact on the reasons why i am so fat. stress levels have the biggest impact on this. followed by gut health, excess iodine, and vitamin d.getting control of this is key to aid and support weight loss. tip 1 increase your good fat intake. this is key for supporting your vitamin d intake. why am i so fat too many calories if you are a lover of food like me. then you know this is a key one for you. there is a real science to this. which i am going to cover. always remember you are an emotional being and we are all different with our emotional software. so always keep that in mind when you are monitoring your calorie intake. so when we look at this reason why am i so fat. we have to assume that our body is in a state of metabolic inefficiency. which is the body is not using fat as the preferred fuel source for every day active not a gym session. so to manage this we have to address what is our individual bmr is.(your basal metabolic rate (bmr is the number of calories you would burn if you were asleep all day). to do this all we need is your height, weight, and age. so we can get a subjective measure. to calculate please click here.bmr once you have found out your bmr. the selection of food is key. try and stick calorie-dense food and rotate them around to support your gut health. why am i so fat not enough calories the most basket form of weight loss is calorie restriction. which works very well when all the systems in the body are working up to 80%. long term use of this system down-regulates the thyroid. lower muscle tissue which is key to long term weight management. which will lead to a hormonal imbalance. never cut more than 800 calories per day for more than 4 consecutive weeks. why am i so fat not enough movement our development in our lifestyle has moved a lot quicker. then our bodies. we have moved from a physical workout to pushing buttons and getting the job done. due to the lack of movement. our bodies cannot work at their optimal. a key thing to remember is exercise is not necessary for weight loss but helps to maximise weight loss 80% lifestyle 20%movement looking for a realistic way of losing weight fast? adding the best apple cider vinegar to your diet will certainly benefit you in the long term, but it won’t make much of a difference without a proper plan of action. to get this focus on losing weight and to do the right things from the get-go, you need a blueprint. if you’re after a sure-fire way to lose weight in less than 30 days, then why not try out our fab fat loss 30 journey to a lighter fitter you!! you are not alone. you will have me as a guide and a helpful, loving private community of hundreds to support you on your fab fat loss journey. my 30 day fab fat loss journey plan is designed to help women aged 18+ to lose 7 to 21lbs in 30 days. if you have more weight to lose than 21lbs, then the course is designed so that you can repeat the whole journey onto the next month. it’s simple to follow and simple to stay on track. [divder] we have a few more pages to support the complete guide to fasting best yoga sex exercises best yoga terms and yoga words best balance yoga positions for balance best kettlebell leg workout best 10 fitness exersize cooking with plants organic bone broth nice n easy menu ideas the following two tabs change content below. bio latest posts abbey latest posts by abbey (see all) 30 day challenge ideas to help keep you motivated 2020 - january 16, 2020 tips on drinking keto wine on your weight loss journey 2020 - january 15, 2020 alcohol awareness on calories in alcoholic beverages 2020 - january 13, 2020 get more stuff subscribe to our mailing list and get interesting stuff and updates to your email inbox. i consent to my submitted data being collected via this form* thank you for subscribing. something went wrong. the form collects name and email so that we can add you to our newsletter list for project updates. checkout our privacy policy for the full story on how we protect and manage your submitted data! no responses pingback: best appetite suppressants that help with weight loss 2020 january 9, 2020 leave a reply cancel reply save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. free ebook 10 day weight loss plan without working out! easy to follow guide to losing weight without breaking sweat subscribe to newsletter thank you for subscribing. something went wrong. popular posts best yoga sex exercises to improve sexual … best yoga terms and yoga words to … 9 nice n easy menu ideas for … making a healthy choice for weight loss … how to lose face fat related posts best 30 day challenge to fit into your wedding dress 2019 30 day challenge to look and feel good in your wedding dress.for your special day with your perfect partner.this guide is broken down into three sections. 30 day challenge mindset 30 day challenge training and resting 30 day challenge food … abbey|january 1, 2020| how to lose face fat 6 reasons to use the best apple cider vinegar for weight loss best organic bone broth: 7 proven reasons you should consume it 2019 resources keto weight loss yoga cyprus archives january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 july 2019 february 2019 january 2019 categories do yoga with me (3) equipment (6) healthy living (15) keto (4) recipes (3) resources (9) supplements (5) weight loss (20) yoga (4) fabfityou.com copyright © 2020. fabfityou.com is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. amazon and the amazon logo are trademarks of amazon.com, inc. or its affiliates. read more on our affiliate disclaimer page.