skip to primary navigation skip to content skip to primary sidebar copyblogger start here blog podcast training certified writers my account login my.copyblogger search type in your keyword and press enter to search copyblogger.com:close search copyblogger... 8 transformative edits to strengthen weak content writing written by stefanie flaxman posted on march 25, 2020 tweet share share pin what does a rough draft of a blog post have in common with all of the other blog posts by all of the other content creators in your niche? too much. i’m sure you’re aware that there are countless other writers musing about the same ideas you are, and in similar ways. the goal of a typical first draft is to transform your scattered thoughts into a cohesive article that explains a topic to your ideal reader. but why should readers choose your content over another writer’s work? if you don’t take the time to revise your rough draft in a way that shows you have a solution that isn’t available anywhere else, they won’t. to help you narrow down the sections of your blog posts that could use improvements, here are eight common weaknesses, paired with tips to strengthen each one. weakness #1: you have an undefined strategy you haven’t clearly defined why you’re writing. your content has no purpose. you only write when you’re inspired. do you know any writers who have started blogs and then quit after a short period of time? (have you done that yourself?) don’t make the mistake of writing without a plan. an editorial calendar holds you accountable for your work and helps you produce focused content at a steady pace. how to fix it: set goals for your writing before you begin. keep a schedule. accomplish your objectives. identify the intention behind every word you type to help readers connect with your work. each piece of writing you publish should serve a larger goal you have for your content platform. weakness #2: you make a promise you don’t keep your headline doesn’t match your text. your advice is not realistic. you don’t deliver. novice and seasoned content marketers alike occasionally get carried away with smoke-and-mirror content — the type of writing that makes big claims without any helpful advice to support the objective of the post. how to fix it: start small. know your limits. promote your strengths. you don’t need to claim to have answers to all of the world’s problems to attract readers to your blog. in fact, readers enjoy vulnerability. you’re human just like they are, and it’s important to reinforce that notion. instead of pretending to be the world’s foremost expert, help the people you can help. follow through on your promises, and explain your specific expertise in a straightforward way that doesn’t make outlandish assertions. weakness #3: you write generic information your topic is vague. you don’t educate. your article could be written by anyone. when you don’t provide useful, unique, ultra-specific, and urgent content for your readers, they lose interest quickly and won’t remember you. and if you’re easily forgotten, you don’t get an opportunity to build your reputation as a great resource. how to fix it: have an opinion. do research. establish a brand. writing is hard work. you don’t need me to tell you that. effective blog posts require loads of creative energy. they’ll wear you out but also help frame your presence as an impressive content creator. remember that anyone can type words into wordpress. it’s your job to show readers a fresh perspective. weakness #4: you don’t use subheads you don’t guide your readers. you have long blocks of text. you miss engagement opportunities. subheads are another chance to capture a reader’s attention. how? if a reader clicks on your article with only a minor interest in it based on what she sees in your headline, then a phrase she views in a subhead may convince her to thoroughly read the text. well-crafted subheads are like a safety net. your readers may be slipping away, but a strong subhead may catch them and bring them back to your message. how to fix it: tell a story. write numbered lists or bullet points. add images. each section of your blog post should keep a reader engaged. making your writing easy to read is a simple way to hold your reader’s interest. as you edit your content, break up your text in appropriate ways. you could use strong titles to introduce different sections or a variety of images that complement your topic. weakness #5: you insert too many tangents you lose focus. you ramble. you imitate another writer. in an attempt to sound charismatic, you may insert too many personal anecdotes that distract readers from your topic. similarly, you may love another writer’s style, so you copy their tone and voice. while you may think a certain tone and voice also matches your personality, it may actually sound inauthentic and contrived. how to fix it: find your own voice. learn selectivity. remember your goals. as you practice writing, you learn that you can’t express all of your ideas in one article. you won’t communicate effectively if you do. you may need to narrow down your objective and save extra thoughts for other posts. weakness #6: you use too many words your sentences are too long. your paragraphs are too long. your posts are too long. you’re probably a writer because you have a lot to say and you like expressing yourself. unfortunately, both of those qualities often serve you, the writer, more than the reader. aim for communicating one clear message in a succinct way. how to fix it: simplify your ideas. use word limits. think like a reader. there’s absolutely nothing wrong with long-form content as long as every piece of information in the article is captivating and relevant. but if you make your readers strain to comprehend your points, reading your writing won’t be a fun experience. you can practice writing with self-imposed word limits to help you learn to trim down your text. weakness #7: you use trite language you repeat clichés. you write boring expressions. you present ordinary concepts. one of the negative consequences of using phrases and sayings that are commonplace and overused is that your readers will often misinterpret your message. while you think a trite expression perfectly sums up your intentions, it could confuse a reader. your true point might not rise to the surface. how to fix it: get creative. be specific. innovate. transcribe your message with detailed language. if a platitude comes to mind while you’re writing, jot it down in your first draft and refine it when you edit your text. your initial ideas can help you craft unique text that puts a new spin on stale language. weakness #8: you have no call to action you don’t offer a next step. you don’t facilitate dialogue. you limit your exposure. don’t assume readers will remember who you are and return to your content platform. suggest their next move. (if one of your articles becomes wildly popular, you’ll be especially glad you encouraged readers to become a part of your community.) how to fix it: direct readers to your best content. present options. continue the conversation. at the end of your posts, let readers know how to take the next step — whether it’s subscribing to your blog, following you on social media, or emailing you to set up a consultation. the end of your post is a chance to expand your relationship with your readers by letting them know how they can stay connected. tweet share share pin filed under: blogging, content marketing, editing, writing stefanie flaxman stefanie flaxman is copyblogger’s editor-in-chief. she teaches better writing, disciplined creativity, and non-sleazy marketing. get more from stefanie on youtube. reader interactions primary sidebar notice: javascript is required for this content. you might also like: do you make these 7 mistakes when you write? the wise content marketer’s guide to sensible seo 3 important seo tips you can start using today the 5 things every (great) marketing story needs quit annoying your audience! take 3 simple steps to focus your content see all popular posts → previous article: overcome this common marketing mistake that makes you want to quit this article's comments are closed. get free access to proven marketing training. notice: javascript is required for this content. copyright © 2006–2020 copyblogger media llc contact comment policy privacy policy cookie policy refund policy terms