australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video politics 03/27/2020 11:13 edt | updated 5 hours ago 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue president donald trump said he wants businesses open by easter. medical professionals say otherwise. by sebastian murdock, huffpost us more than 800,000 physicians across the country signed a letter urging president donald trump to keep social distancing practices in place after he said he wants to reopen businesses by easter. “significant covid-19 transmission continues across the united states, and we need your leadership in supporting science-based recommendations on social distancing that can slow the virus,” the letter, released by the council of medical specialty societies, said. “our societies have closely adhered to these measures by moving our staff to fulltime telework and canceling in-person meetings (including annual meetings). these actions have helped to keep physicians and other health professionals in health care facilities, including hospitals, and reduce the risk of spreading covid-19.” the virus continues to spread across the u.s. and has killed at least 1,000 people in the country. in order to slow the spread of the virus, many states have closed schools, restaurants and other places where people gather in large numbers, and nonessential workers have been told to stay home. the president, along with his sycophants at fox news, have continuously downplayed the threat, at one point falsely claiming the virus was a democratic or media “hoax” made up to hurt the president’s chances of reelection. a lack of testing kits and an administration downplaying the threat has only exacerbated the dangerous situation. earlier this week, trump said he wanted to end social distancing and have the economy back up and running by easter, a date he chose for no other reason than it would be “a beautiful time.” “easter’s a very special day for me,” trump told fox news on tuesday. “wouldn’t it be great to have all of the churches full? you’ll have packed churches all over our country. i think it would be a beautiful time.” medical professionals disagree. “federal, state, and local governments should only set a date for lifting nationwide social distancing restrictions consistent with assessments by public health and medical experts,” the letter from cmss said. “lifting restrictions sooner will gravely jeopardize the health of all americans and extend the devastation of the covid-19 pandemic.” read the full letter from the council of medical specialty societies here. a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic trump rejects new york’s desperate plea for ventilators what you need to know about at-home coronavirus test kits how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off avoiding going to the store? here’s how to order groceries online. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction sebastian murdock senior reporter, huffpost more: donald trump coronavirus covid-19 social distancing health professional trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow politics get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to the politics newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.