worksheets all topics a-z grammar vocabulary speaking reading listening writing pronunciation virtual classroom articles posters books more worksheets by season 600 creative writing prompts warmers, fillers & ice-breakers coloring pages to print flashcards classroom management worksheets emergency worksheets revision worksheets resources we recommend busyteacher home » seasonal free seasonal worksheets worksheets by month here at busyteacher we have created this section for seasonal activities which are further organized by month. activities related to holidays and certain times of the year are posted in this part of the website. currently there are 819 such worksheets available as well as some articles with a variety of lesson ideas. this spring worksheet here, for example, is for a simple craft activity perfect for beginning learners. the vocabulary words umbrella, flower, and rain or raindrop are all related to spring. have students write the words on the back of the objects so that the final product, a mobile, can function as a study device and decoration. all of our materials are free and easy to print out so take a moment to find something for your students. activities like the ones included in this section are interesting because they relate to the time of year. this is nice because the topic is not arbitrary but relates directly to the students lives. exercises about different seasons give students the opportunity to talk about things they enjoy doing. additionally, lessons on holidays can be used either as cultural lessons where students learn about the practices of other cultures or as a chance for students to share their thoughts as well as learn some new, unique vocabulary. seasonal activities can be a lot of fun and allow everyone to take a short break from the textbook material and focus on the world around them. read more......less filter by level new complete beginner (197) elementary (637) pre-intermediate (313) intermediate (142) upper-intermediate advanced (60) exam level (10) suitable for all levels (46) clear filters filter top articles in this category 10 january themed language building activities dramatically improve the way you teach: check out our writing resources creative writing prompts 1-50 creative writing prompts 51-100 creative writing prompts 101-150 creative writing prompts 151-200 creative writing prompts 201-250 creative writing prompts 251-300 creative writing prompts 301-350 creative writing prompts 351-400 creative writing prompts 401-450 creative writing prompts 451-500 creative writing prompts 501-550 creative writing prompts 551-600 make a word search: create awesome-looking custom word searches in seconds! create now › make a word scramble: instantly create custom word/sentence scrambles for your class! create now › make a double puzzle: generate double puzzles your students will love - hours of fun! create now › esl articles view our latest knowledgebase articles that will help you become a better english teacher. learn from professional teachers and put a bit of your own creativity into it! top 10 tongue twisters: true teacher's treasure? 10 february themed language building activities beyond martin luther king day: teaching argument through the writings of martin luther king wida and access testing: what you need to know how to be a better teacher: the secret recipe that every pro knows view all rate this category 4.3 out of 5, rated by 3 teachers explore seasonal: january 66 february 89 march 81 april 65 may 37 june 30 july 31 august 23 september 38 october 119 november 63 december 174 most popular classroom management: stoplight behavior management system let's talk about seasons and weather months of the year sort by: most recent | most viewed | rating cloze activity - rosa parks primaryleap •young learners, celebrities/biographies, reading comprehension, february students are asked to read the sentences and fill in the missing words from the word bank to complete the facts about rosa parks. this worksheet was created by www.primaryleap.co.uk example: rea ... 1 8,185 elempre-int chinese new year quiz primaryleap •young learners, quizzes and hunts, reading comprehension, january this fun quiz can be used as an extra resource when teaching the topic: chinese new year, or any english language lesson. created by www.primaryleap.co.uk some of the questions include: how many ... 1 4,755 elem art as a from of resistance during the holocaust powerpoint anastasiia •social issues, tv and video, january the lesson introduces students to the art created by the persecuted jews, namely teenagers, during the holocaust. the lesson focuses on the use of drawings as the way to resist oppression and per ... 1 3,121 pre-intint traditional british christmas foods anastasiia •food, christmas, tv and video, december the video-based worksheet allows students to explore traditional british christmas dishes. the tasks are aimed at elementary or pre-intermediate learners and rely on images and matching strategie ... 1 5,322 elempre-int frosty the snowman (1969) worksheet wmappleteach •christmas, movie + video + cartoons, december this 26 minute frosty the snowman animated video is a classic from 1969. this worksheet is for pre-intermediate and up. it's in eight parts with each part's approximate start and end time listed. ... 1 12,717 pre-intintadv put busyteacher in your inbox sign up for the busyteacher weekly and be the first to get direct links to our latest teaching articles, worksheets and lesson plans. goes out to 323,134 subscribers every wednesday. see last week's issue. yes, sign me up! thank you for joining our mailing list! hanukkah worksheet - research activity primaryleap •homework, hanukkah, customs and traditions, december to celebrate hanukkah we have created this research activity for students to enjoy. this worksheet was created by primaryleap.co.uk. hanukkah is the jewish festival of lights and lasts for eight d ... 2 10,443 elem christmas chatterbox helen close •christmas, mingling activities, december this appeals to all ages, making a christmas chatterbox. we discuss greetings that are used at christmas both spoken and written. there are a number on the sheet you can choose from. students wri ... 1 13,153 all december calendar and holiday coloring pages busyteacher_admin •christmas, december this 8-page worksheet contains the calendar for the month of december where you can put important dates and your students' birthdays (if any), and 7 pages of december symbols and characters that c ... 14 18,130 begelempre-int song worksheet: halloween-the addams family pperez14 •halloween, esl songs for teaching english, october, warmers and fillers first, students have to guess/look up the meaning of some words connected to halloween or scary things. then they have to complete the lyrics of the theme song of the addams family with those wor ... 1 7,176 all summer at the seaside vanda51 •summer activities, june, july, august this is a worksheet for elementary students on summer vocabulary. students are asked to choose a word from the box and write it down under the right picture. vocabulary included: bikini, mask, sw ... 19 39,348 begelem summer holiday travelling brainstormer ueslteacher •summer activities, end of year, travelling/culture studies, june, july, august this is a worksheet to brainstorm destinations, packing lists, ways to travel, and things to see and do. it can then be followed by a speaking activity. and after that you could have your students ... 18 35,332 elem summer boardgame vanda51 •summer activities, crosswords/boardgames, june, july, august teach or revise summer vocabulary with this boardgame. students must advance on the board with dice, when they land on a picture they must name it, spell it and or use it in a sentence. this activ ... 18 23,665 elempre-int welcome unit worksheet blanca aragón •questions and short answers, back to school, august, september it's never too early to start planning for next year! matching exercises to revise personal information, months, seasons, colors, and practise asking and answering questions in pairs to activat ... 1 10,562 begelem friends worksheet 05x11 pauliane godoy •new year, tv and video, movie + video + cartoons, december this is a worksheet based on the famous tv series friends. it's an activity that can be usedo with intermediate students or higher. this episode is about new year's eve resolutions. it's funny an ... 1 10,501 intadv "friends" season 3 episode 9 thanksgiving tv episode worksheet (the one with the football) ariel •usa, thanksgiving worksheets, movie + video + cartoons, november this is a worksheet based a full episode of the tv show, "friends" (season 3, episode 9: the one with the football). it includes matching activities to pre-teach relevant vocabulary and listening ... 1 17,703 intadv candles - how many words? primaryleap •young learners, christmas, spelling, december how many words worksheets can be used in many ways. you can use it as a competition, as a timed challenge or just for fun! students can complete the task on their own or in groups or in pairs. how ... 1 11,667 elem music worksheet: strangers by halsey michael peters arch •seasonal » august this song can be used with pre-intermediate to advanced groups. i prepared the tasks in two parts. part one is finding the correct prepositions, and part two is about pronunciation. sts listen aga ... 1 4,852 pre-intintadv father's day quiz primaryleap •father's day, quizzes and hunts, june when was father's day first celebrated? in greek myth, who is known as the "father of the universe"? students are asked to complete the father's day multiple choice activity by underlining the cor ... 2 7,229 elem william shakespeare irina komoltseva •past simple, teenagers, projects, april shakespeare is one of the most popular writers the world has ever known. his creations are still popular today and millions of people still admire them. april is a good month to talk about william ... 1 12,537 pre-int spring is here by elf - a song worksheet anita bb •weather, march a very simple a5 gap-fill to revise some basic vocabulary connected with spring and weather. it's based on a catchy song by elf that i found on youtube: i used it on the first day of spring. answ ... 1 9,585 elempre-int snowflake - how many words? primaryleap •young learners, homework, christmas, december how many words worksheets can be used in many ways. you can use it as a competition, as a timed challenge or just for fun! students can complete the task on their own or in groups or in pairs. how ... 2 13,046 elem penguins - how many words? primaryleap •young learners, christmas, spelling, december how many words worksheets can be used in many ways. you can use it as a competition, as a timed challenge or just for fun! students can complete the task on their own or in groups or in pairs. how ... 3 11,160 elem christmas story picture - small chimney primaryleap •young learners, christmas, creative writing prompts, december this christmas worksheet was created for primary/elementary students. kids look at the picture and write a creative story to go along with it. santa is looking a bit worried...we think the chimney ... 7 32,585 elem word search - albert einstein primaryleap •word order, young learners, may we have created a fun word search for your students to enjoy. there are eighteen words hidden in the grid that are all associated with albert einstein. students try and find all of the words hidde ... 3 9,491 elem movie worksheet: modern family; spring break christine loconti •teenagers, usa, easter, movie + video + cartoons, march, april this worksheet goes with the episode of the popular tv show modern family, "spring break." i used this to go along with a lesson about easter holidays and spring break in other countries as a fun ... 2 18,209 intadv got a great worksheet on seasonal? tell us about it and become a busyteacher contributor! submit a worksheet previous page 1 2 3 4 5 ... 29 next page busyteacher.org copyright 2007-2020 © about submit a worksheet log in terms privacy contact us mobile version working. please wait...