skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about 9 best blog and domain name generators by jamie finding the perfect new domain name for your website or blog can be a tricky task. you may have just decided to start a blog on the wordpress blogging platform, but what the hell do you call your new site? you will want something that is memorable, unique to you and your business and also something that might relate to your main keywords for seo purposes. there are literally thousands of articles on how to choose a great domain name for a blog or website. the best way to get started is to use a blog name generator to get the creative juices flowing. why you might want to use a blog name generator? you’re looking to make a new blog, but don’t know which blog name to choose. you’re looking to set up a new website, but don’t know which domain name to choose. you’ve simply run out of ideas. every single domain name that you’ve looked has already been taken. :( your brand name or business name has been registered and you’re looking for variations. but, instead of spending hours brainstorming the best website or blog name for your business, you can try one of the many great online tools for doing it for you. the idea of a domain name generator or blog name generator is not new and there are loads of them available. however, you’ll want to use one that will be simple to use and produce the best results as well. let’s take a look at some of the best… check if your ideal domain name is available with bluehost – free domain + email when you buy hosting: latest deal - bluehost for just $2.95 p/m + free domain name 1. domain.com domain.com is a very popular domain name registrar, but it also has a useful blog name generation tool. this tool also bundles the cost of each domain that appears in the results. when you input a keyword, it’ll check to see if the .com is available. if it’s not, then it’ll show you other domain name extensions that are available, and if none of those are available, then it’ll offer you other suggestions. the tool also shows you premium domain names. a lot of these range up into the thousands of dollars. but, if you have a big budget for your new blog, then it might be a worthy investment. plus, since it’s a domain name registrar you can register a domain as soon as you find one that you like that’s available and within your budget. use our exclusive coupon code bfsitehub to get 30% off your domain name at domain.com 2. shopify business name generator shopify has a ton of useful tools for online small business owners, including its business name generation tool. it functions a bit differently than other tools on this list in that it searches for registered business names and not domain names. so, you might have to combine the results from this tool with another domain name generator to ensure you can get a domain that matches your business name too. 3. lean domain search creating a domain name for your website or blog that is available doesn’t have to be a long, frustrating process that makes you want to scream. you can find a fantastic one in a flash with lean domain search. common method for generating domain names on lean domain search most people create their domain names by combining two or more words together. one of the words is usually related to their business, website or purpose such as salesforce, businessweek, extreme tech and many, many others. lean domain search is a domain generator created by the people behind wordpress. this blog name generator specializes in generating domain names for blogs. in an effort to test just how simple it is to use lean domain search, i entered “gameraddict” in the domain search field. i was then offered 4,999 available domains containing gameraddict. of those, i chose “gameraddicthelp.com; and since that domain name is available, a pop up box indicated “registration options” including: • domain.com • namecheap • bluehost (highly recommend & free domain name when you buy hosting – latest deal – $2.65 per month + free domain) • register and create a blog on wordpress.com in addition, the site also notified me that “gameraddicthelp.com” is available on twitter. all-in-all, i found the whole procedure both easy and completed the entire process in very little time. other methods of generating domain names on lean domain search • prefixes and suffixes – lean domain search will either add a prefix at the front of the word or a suffix at the end of the word in order to generate domain names. • .com – because most nontechnical people associate .com domain names with the internet, lean domain search checks only for the availability of the .com for your domain name. since the site only checks the .com, it does not show the .com in the domain name. • no-no’s – you can’t use a number, hyphen or any other special character as part of your domain name. lean domain search will indicate that it isn’t able to perform the search. you can browse your search results on lean domain search • sorting and filtering search results – lean domain search provides easy popularity, length or alphabetically sorting of your search results. in addition, you can filter your search results to show you only the domain names that either start or end with your search term. • confirm the search result availability – when you click on the domain name, a small window will pop up that checks whether the domain name is available. it will also check whether the name is available on twitter. • domain name previously registered – when you click on a domain name that was previously registered by someone else, the name box will turn pink. • you can keep track of your favorites – you can mark a search result that you like in order to keep track of it. all you have to do is click the star next to the domain name in the availability confirming window. 4. dictionary domains dictionarydomains.io runs regular checks for the availability of one word domain names across a wide variety of tlds (.com, .ca, .org, .io and many more). at the time of publishing this article there are still thousands of dictionary word domain names available to be registered which might be a great opportunity for a domain investor or a technology startup. 5.wordoid what are wordoids? simply put, they are words that are made up, look nice, and are great for naming things. these words can be unique names for your company, product, blog or domain. wordoid is a free and intelligent, naming tool and a most creative tool for generating a catchy and distinctive name for you. it actually invents new words and does it automagically. phonetics’ rules are followed as well as roll off the tongue. you won’t find these words in a dictionary, but they sound like real words. these words can be created in english, spanish, french, italian or german. it is not only free, but it is most definitely easy to use. this tool will generate words that seem like they’re english words, but they’re actually completely made up. this is a very common naming convention for a lot of new startups and apps. here’s a few sample results: there are five simple choices for you to select when generating names in wordoid: • languages: you can select one language in order to get wordoids created according to that language’s rules. you can also select two or more languages in order to blend tastes of several languages. • quality level: the higher the quality level chosen determines just how similar or natural the words sound in relation to the language selected. the three choices include low, medium or high. • pattern: you are given the choice of entering a short fragment or not including a short fragment by leaving that field blank. leaving the field empty will allow wordoids to be created entirely at random. if you enter a short fragment to be included in your generated wordoid, you can choose whether it should appear at the ending, containing or beginning. • wordoid length: you are able to set the maximum length of your wordoids. this selection is important since short ones look better than long ones. you can select whether the length is any number of letters between 5 and 15. • domain names: you are given the choice of either showing or hiding wordoids with .net and .com names availability. by selecting “show”, the site will show whether the wordoid is available and where. for example, i chose to generate a wordoid in english, at a maximum of 15 letters and beginning with “kid”. one wordoid suggested was “kidstorio” and the site indicated that it was available as a .com and .net at godaddy. 6. name mesh when you enter your targeted words and click search on name mesh, you are offered a selection of similar domain name suggestions, common short domains, seo-focused suggestions, mix suggestions and fun suggestions. these selections will allow you to find the perfect domain name for starting your blog or creating a website. the features of name mesh include the following: • each domain is marked with either red for not available or green for available. this site allows you to hide the unavailable domains. • name mesh allows you to set a maximum character length for your blog or domain name. • by clicking the domain option, you can see the domain name’s social availability on both twitter and facebook. • additional extensions such as .com, .co, .net and .io domain name extensions can be turned on or off. this gives you more or fewer choices of extensions. • you can check new generic top level domains (gtlds) that are generally available such as .link, .email, .domains and many others. as they are launched, new gtlds are added. 7. domains bot domains bot is one of the easiest to use domain name / blog name generators due to its clean interface. to generate a domain name, you simply enter your keywords and click the search button. you can then refine your list further by selecting allow or disallow synonyms for each keyword, selecting the top-level domain extensions (tld) to be included, selecting your price range and more. in addition, you will be shown a list of already-registered and available domain names. for each suggestion presented, you will be shown its social availability. next to each suggestion you like, you click the “buy” button, and you will be directed to a list of suggested domain registration providers and their prices. 8. nameboy nameboy is one of the oldest domain name generators, but its continuous innovations make it one of the top tools out there. nameboy allows you to find domain names through the use of a domain name search and the opportunity to register the domain name. it is a very versatile url generator, company name generator and a website name generator. the results you get will depend upon how much information you give the tool. for example, you can enter a primary description, a secondary description, and you also have the ability to make your domain rhyme, or include hyphens. we recommend removing the ability to generate hyphenated domains. generating a domain name is simple and fast with nameboy. all you have to do is enter a primary keyword. you can also enter a second keyword if you wish. you then specify whether you will accept a domain name with a hyphen. since a cached database of domain names is used by nameboy, it is fast, but the domain name you like best may be previously registered by someone else. additional features of nameboy include: • you can login and save the available domain names you like in a cart for later registration of the domain name. you hit the “login” on the upper-right corner of the nameboy search page, and all of your favorite, available domain names are saved in your search cart of domain names. • your domain name search cart can also be used to keep track of the domain names you currently own in order to allow you to manage them from this one convenient location. you simply login, click the domain cart, and click “add names i own”. after clicking “manage” next to each domain in your list, you should go to the management page of the original registrar. the tool will generate a massive list of domain names to choose from. you can even register a domain directly from the list of name results. the best thing about the names generated from this tool is that they’re all pretty unique and brandable. there are a number of names from the simple search above that could be used for a recipe or food blog. 9. panabee if you’re looking for a domain or blog name generator that is above all simple to use, you’ll like this one. panabee is definitely one of the simplest name generators online. this is because all you do is enter a keyword or two, and panabee automatically merges the words, adds characters, or spells the words backwards. additional names are created by dropping the last vowel, dropping the first letter, doubling the last letter or adding the keyword twice. with panabee, you are also able to select a domain extension since it supports many extensions such as .com, .net, .org, .us, .in, etc. however, you can simply add your desired extension when you add your keyword even if it isn’t available, and panabee will take care of the rest. social media panabee will also check social media availability of your domain name idea, so that you get consistency across all channels for your brand name. aligning your domain name with your social media platforms is a must. new online business just can’t afford to not get involved with social media marketing and making a brand on social media channels. this is why panabee is so useful with the checking of your domain name’s availability on social media networks such as facebook, twitter, tumblr, pinterest and instagram. your blog or domain name can be registered if it is available at godaddy with a simple click on the name. terms that are related to your keyword are shown to you below the name suggestions. also shown to you below it are public links and posts from google and facebook. apps that are related to your keyword from the apple app store and google play store are displayed on the right side. additionally, both registered and available international domains are also displayed. you won’t be disappointed with the appealing design of this site, the simplicity of use and the amazing speed. 10. namestation with namestation, you are able to generate both random blog title names and keyword included blog names. being an intelligent domain name generator, it generates word extensions that are relevant to your specified keyword. namestation offers you: • random names generated or keyword domains • automatic blog name generator suggestions that are good blog names and keywords that are relevant • both search suggestions and keyword lists • bulk domain checks that are fast • public naming contest opportunities • suggestions of cool blog names from other users that are given manually a registration fee is required at namestation. 11. domain fellow domain fellow may be one of the oldest engines for domain suggestions on the internet, but it still remains one of the best domain name generators. with domain fellow, you can create domain names that are both meaningful and short and also check their availability. it also allows you to create outstanding domains by combining your keywords or using a database of categorized popular words. not only is domain fellow easy to use; it is also free. your domain registration is not done by domain fellow. however, it does refer you to an accredited, high-quality registrar such as verisign or dolstar. there is no charge for any services performed by domain fellow, and domain registrar does not charge an additional markup for customers sent by domain fellow. if you want to see if your keyword is popular, check it out at google keyword tool. if you want to check the trends for your keyword, check it out at google trends. 12. isitwp name generator isitwp is primarily a site about wordpress, but it has a great free tool that can help you land on the perfect name for your new blog. all you have to do is enter a few keywords, or a potential brand name and let the tool do the rest. you’ll get a huge list of different domain names to choose from, depending on what you entered. if you find a blog name that you like, then just click ‘view details’ and you’ll be able to purchase the domain through bluehost. 13. domain wheel domain wheel is a high-quality domain suggestion tool. all you need to do is enter a keyword or two and it’ll give you a huge list of available domain names. the list it generates contains domain names that are actually available. so, you won’t get excited about a potential domain, only to find out that you can’t actually purchase it. the results are broken up into a few different categories. the first category is domains that include your target and related keywords, and either a .com, .net., or .org extension. next, you’ll find a list of completely random domain names that have been generated by the tool. in the last section you’ll find domains that sound like the keyword/s you inserted, or keywords that are random, but still related to your target keywords. just click on anything that interests you and you’ll get an entirely new set of results. 14. instant domain search instant domain search is a tool that actually works instantly. as soon as you start typing keywords into the search bar it will start to generate domain results. you’ll find hundreds of different domain names to choose from, and you’ll know right away if they’re available or not. you can even make an offer on the domains that are marked in red. these domains will come with premium prices, but for new bloggers with a big budget, the price might be worth it. how to choose a blog name starting a new blog can be an exciting time. but, it’s easy to get stuck on one of the first steps—choosing the perfect blog name. your blog’s name will be your domain name, your business name, and what will stick in the mind’s of your visitors. there’s nothing worse than choosing the wrong blog name and having to switch up your domain name down the road. this can lead to branding issues, problems with seo, and a lot more headacahes. so, essentially naming your blog is a challenge. but, there are a few ways you can help to simplify the process: understand what makes a good blog name learn how experts come up with catchy and brandable names use blog name generators to come up with the perfect unique blog name we cover all of this and more in the post below. this guide will help you no matter what kind of niche your blog is in and how new you are to the world of blogging. what makes a good blog name? a blog name might seem simple, but there’s actually a lot that’s going on beneath the surface. could you imagine super successful blogs like huffington post or smart passive income if they had different blog name? maybe they wouldn’t have caught on and gained massive levels of success with a different, less catchy name? your blog name will influence the topics you write about, how easy it is to gain traction, and how memorable your brand is. choosing a strong, unique, and memorable blog name can help you build a stronger brand. if you choose a blog name that doesn’t align with your website’s topic or is confusing to your visitors, you will make it that much harder to succeed. here are some traits that good blog names share: they’re memorable and easy to share they’re descriptive or suggest what the blog is about they’re unique and can be used to build a brand they pass the speaking test, i.e., it’s easy to tell your friends the name what to consider before choosing a blog name before you choose a blog name, you’ll want to do some foundational work to understand what your blog is about and the audience you’re serving. miss this step and you’ll be stuck on the blog naming treadmill, forever coming up with new names, but never finding a name that actually fits your blog. here are four big factors that’ll influence the name of your blog: 1. topic and niche so, what’s your blog about? you should be able to answer this question before you even start a blog. for example, will your blog be about practical financial advice for millennials? or, how about a blog that focuses on healthy living on a budget? or, maybe you’re starting a blog on email marketing for new ecommerce companies? you should have a solid understanding of the kinds of topics you will write (maybe even a list of potential blog post topics), who you’re writing for, and how you will stand out in your niche. this first step is crucial. imagine spending days coming up with the perfect name for your photography blog, only to realize that you want to write in the video marketing niche instead. you might have gotten lucky and came up with a blog name that works. but, there’s a good chance you’ll have to start over from scratch. 2. your audience the audience you’re targeting will also influence the name of your blog. let’s look at the personal finance niche again. your language will be very different when speaking to a college audience, versus a group of investing professionals. knowing your niche isn’t enough, you need to drill down to the exact group of people you’re speaking to in that niche. if you’re struggling to come up with something unique, it can be helpful to go with something straightforward. if visitors know what your blog will be about the moment they type in your domain name, then you’re on the right track. 3. tone and voice your tone and voice will not only be influenced by your niche and audience, but also your voice as a writer. think of it as how you relate to your audience and the language you use. for example, let’s look at the blog called the middle finger project. you can tell from the title alone that it’s going to be witty, aggressive, and entertaining. it’s a blog that shows you how to make money on your own terms, but it stands out from other websites in the space by being very unique. your language might not be this edgy, but it shows that you should make your personality shine through in your blogging. don’t be afraid to highlight or ramp up certain parts of you and your work. this includes using slang, vocabulary, and turns of phrase, that speak to your audience. just make sure that your blog name is in alignment with the type of writing you’ll be doing. worst case, you could end up with a mismatched name. for instance, if you have a corporate sounding blog name, but you’re going for a funny and edgy vibe this will confuse your visitors. 4. type of brand when you’re thinking of a name, you’ll want something brandable. for example, think of iconic brand names like apple, tesla, amazon, and google. this doesn’t mean that you need a single word domain name, but it should be something that’s memorable and sticks into the minds of your visitors. your blog name needs to be something you can build a brand around, especially if you plan on being around for the long term. brandable names come in a variety of types. for example, “istockphoto.com” is more of a keyword rich domain, but it’s become one of the biggest players in the stock photo space. blog name best practices here are a few tips that will help you choose the best blog name possible. you’ll learn common pitfalls to avoid, along with best practices to implement. 1. shorter is better the shorter the name of your blog, the better. let’s look at these two domains, “learnhowtogethighrankings.com” versus “seorank.com”. the first domain is long, difficult to remember, and will be near impossible to build a and around. while, the second domain name is short, easy to remember, and can be used to build a strong brand in the seo space. most of the single word domains were already registered decades ago. but, by using the blog name generation tools below you can combine two words into a memorable domain. 2. take your time you don’t want to rush the process of choosing a blog name. having to go through the process of changing your blog name down the road can be a real hassle. you might confuse your visitors and even lose your search engine rankings. all of this can be avoided by taking the time up front to find a blog name you’ll want to use for the long-term. 3. don’t box yourself in when you choose a blog name, it’s actually possible to go too niche. for example, let’s say you want to start a sports blog about tennis, so you name it “tennisinsider.com”. this is a great name for your blog. however, it can limit you in the future. a few years down the line, you might get tired of writing about tennis and want to expand out into other sports. here, a better name for your blog would have been, “sportsinsider.com”. you can always choose a more general blog name, while still writing more niche-oriented content. you just want to give yourself room to grow into the future. once your blog is growing in traffic and authority, it’s easier to expand out into new related niches, instead of starting from scratch. 4. no numbers or special characters your blog name and associated domain name should only have words and letters. by including numbers, hyphens, and other special characters you make it difficult to remember your domain. plus, it’s much more difficult to build a brand around your blog. it will look spammy and less professional across the board. 5. url readability the final point is to consider how your url looks. sometimes when you combine two words together, it’ll make an unintended word in your url. either in your language, or another language that your visitors speak. this can be a little embarrassing, and maybe even offensive, especially if it’s something that your readers point out to you down the line. 6. go beyond your name a lot of bloggers end up going with their own names. it’s easy, simple, and chances are the domain is already available. this could make sense if the blog is about you, or you’re an author who’s publishing books under your own name. however, for a lot of bloggers it makes more sense to go beyond your name and come up with something truly unique and original. going with your own name might be easier upfront, but it’s more difficult to build a brand around your name than something that’s unique. plus, if your blog ever grows beyond you personally, you might run into difficulties expanding your brand. build your blog name keyword list by now you’ve learned a handful of secrets about what makes a high quality blog name. you have a deep understanding of your blog, you’ve learned what makes a great name, and common mistakes to avoid. now, it’s time to build your initial keyword list. this is the list of words and phrases that you’ll type into the name generation tools in the next section to uncover your dream blog name. 1. research your competition your competition is a great place to come up with a list of potential blog names. by researching blogs and websites that are doing really well you’ll be able to see what your readers like and what types of names have worked well. this doesn’t mean you should go out and blatantly copy another blog name, but it’s perfectly fine to draw inspiration from what’s working. a quick google search will do. but, you can also browse through a site like alltop. this resource lists all of the popular blogs in a respective niche. when you’re browsing through competitor blog names make sure to take note of naming trends, along with keywords you might be able to use in your name. for example, in the newspaper space we have names like the new york times, the los angeles times, the irish times, the seattle times, the daily times, and many more. 2. browse book titles looking at best-selling book titles can be another great way to get your creative juices flowing. spend some time browsing through the best-selling books that are in your same market. look at titles that are currently doing well, as well as timeless books that have sold well for decades. coming up with a catchy book title that will also sell well takes a lot of work. take advantage of this and see if there are formats or words you can borrow for your blog. for example, here are some of the best-selling business books in the amazon library: 3. use a thesaurus looking through a thesaurus can be a great way to find unique words you can add to your blog name. think of a thesaurus as a giant book of inspiration. you can use it to find related words, or even flick through it randomly. your goal here is to find interesting word combinations and get your creativity flowing. if you happen to have a paperback version of the thesaurus, then go ahead and use that. but, for those who are strictly digital, just head over to thesaurus.com and type in a seed keyword to get started. 4. consider an abbreviation sometimes you’ll want to use an abbreviation in place of a full business name. usually, this is done when a name is hard to remember, or easy to misspell. if your blog name is long, then you might want to opt for shortening it. for example, let’s look at the website “iftt.com”. they’ve built their brand on the back of this acronym which actually stands for “if this, then that.” abbreviations can work in your favor business-wise too. for example, think about the company ibm. the full company name is international business machines, but you’ll almost always hear the company referred to as ibm. it’s much more memorable. 5. go completely random the final point to keep in mind, is your blog name doesn’t have to 100% relate to your niche. look at the company apple. they’re literally named after a fruit, but have become one of the most successful tech companies in the world. if you are going to choose a blog name that is random, then it’s even more important that you have a clear and coherent brand. even with an unrelated name your visitors should be able to quickly decipher what your blog is about. in closing: naming your blog and registering your domain choosing the right name for your new blog is a lot of work. the domain name you choose will depend upon what niche you’re in, your voice as a writer, the audience you’re targeting, and more. but, it’s important to invest all of this time up front, so you don’t have to go through the struggle of renaming and rebranding your blog down the line. keep the blog naming best practices in mind as you use the blog name generators to find a truly unique domain. you can use a combination of the tools above, or maybe you’ll get lucky and find the perfect name on your very first try. once you’ve found the perfect blog name, make sure you read our guide on setting up your first blog the right way. and that’s it. thanks for reading. if you want some more info on blogging then check out some of the following posts to help you out! how to make money blogging how to make money online blog examples to give you inspiration see if your ideal blog title name is available: the following two tabs change content below. bio latest posts jamie my name is jamie spencer and i have spent the past 5 years building money making blogs. after growing tired of the 9-5, commuting and never seeing my family i decided that i wanted to make some changes and launched my first blog. since then i have launched lots of successful niche blogs and after selling my survivalist blog i decided to teach other people how to do the same. latest posts by jamie (see all) interview – cameron james from anymail finder - march 26, 2020 the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews - march 25, 2020 how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old - march 19, 2020 categories blogging post navigation examples of blogs – inspiration for new bloggers wordpress.com vs wordpress.org – which is right for you? 10 thoughts on “9 best blog and domain name generators” freddy g. cabrera march 8, 2018 at 3:41 am | reply hey jamie! this is quite interesting. i didn’t know about there were domain name generators or just name generators for a blog site. this is helpful. you definitely have to think a few times when looking for a domain name for your blog or next website project. the domain name will always be important for branding. it really helps to have a short and catchy domain name. but, of course, the niche you are diving into has a lot of influence in the domain name choosing. thank you for sharing this! best regards! :d alisa ewert august 1, 2017 at 9:01 am | reply this post is gold! rarely do i read a blog post about blogging that isn’t 90% stuff i’ve heard of before. i cannot wait to click and try a bunch of these as i draft my new post today. jonathan wallen february 22, 2017 at 4:39 pm | reply nice blog! so much info that i can really use to my own advantage! also your web site extremely fast! what host are you using? can i am getting your associate hyperlink for your host? i want my web site loaded up as fast as yours lol jamie february 23, 2017 at 9:37 am | reply i’m using wpengine geny marsh august 9, 2016 at 6:19 am | reply these are the great websites but these are helpful also when you are trying to search for a keyword domain for your blog or website but now days the trends are changing and everyone wants to own a brand name. vikas kashyap june 30, 2016 at 11:03 am | reply these websites are very useful and totally solved my problem about domain search. i also liked the way how you explained all the things very clearly. your blog will really help the people who want to register a domain and have a great confusion. michael rader june 17, 2016 at 10:43 am | reply i really like the way you have explained the things. these suggestions will really help out those people who are looking forward for interesting names for their business. amazing job !!!! kate march 24, 2016 at 3:42 am | reply my domain is k84u.com and is like kate for you. my blog name is kate’s universe. but still… i want something new according to movies, music, photography, lifestyle. sick of tired of searching. damn. melissa beth demayo january 16, 2016 at 3:51 am | reply there’s so many options nowadays to find a unique and clever domain name. nice roundup you have here! jamie january 18, 2016 at 10:32 am | reply thanks melissa! leave a comment cancel reply commentname email save my name and email in this browser for the next time i comment. recent posts interview – cameron james from anymail finder the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old how to write a blog post – a guide for new & experienced bloggers best social media management tools 2020 categories amazon fba blog traffic blogging business cheat sheets content marketing design tips email marketing graphic design interviews make money online marketing photography questions social tech buying guides web development website cms wordpress best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub