wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » 9 best conference call services of 2020 compared (w/ free options) 9 best conference call services of 2020 compared (w/ free options) last updated on march 27th, 2020 by editorial staff 55 shares share tweet share pin are you looking for the best online conference call service for your business? with the rising trend of remote working, many businesses rely heavily on conference calls, group video calls, and group team chats. there are tons of great free and paid conference call services in the market, but how do you pick the one that’s right for your business? in this article, we’ll compare the best online conference call services and software to help you manage remote teams, improve communication, and grow your business. transparency disclaimer: wpbeginner content is reader-supported, which means if you click on some of the links in this post, we may earn a small referral fee. please know that we only recommend products that we use ourselves and/or believe will add value to our readers. see how wpbeginner is funded for more details. 1. nextiva nextiva is one of the best business phone services on the market. it allows you to easily manage conference calls using your virtual business phone number. nextiva app works on all devices (android, iphone, laptop, and desktop computers). you can use it to receive phone calls on the go, at home, or in the office. it is perfect for remote teams because nextiva makes it super easy to add team members and set up call forwarding rules based on departments. their audio call quality is excellent, apps are easy to use, and they offer incredible customer support. their platform also includes crm, livechat, and other wide-range of features you’ll need to manage your business. the only downside is that their video call feature is a bit limited. note: we use nextiva on wpbeginner for our virtual business phone number. in our experience, nextiva is the best small business phone system in the market from both features and pricing point of view. pricing: $20 per month per user, but if you need unlimited conference calls, then you’ll need their pro plan which starts at $25 per user per month. 2. ringcentral ringcentral is another popular business voip provider that offers conference call services. they offer professional business phone numbers with both audio / video conferencing features. ringcentral also provide a virtual phone number with mobile apps that allow you to use the same phone number on multiple devices from any location. this works perfectly for remote teams that work from anywhere. ringcentral platform features include cloud phone, team messaging, conferencing, call-forwarding, auto-greetings, and more. all ringcentral users can get a free online meeting service, ringcentral meetings, which lets you have high quality video conference calls with anyone in your team and/or customers. the free online meetings plan can have up to 100 call participants, comes with screen sharing, but it’s limited to 40 minute calls only. pricing: their basic plan starts at $19.99 / operator per month. you can upgrade to their office premium plan $34.99 / month which removes the call restrictions and gives you tons of additional features. 3. zoom zoom is a popular online video conferencing and meeting software. if you are only looking for video conferencing and online meeting software, then zoom is an excellent option. you can easily set up an online conference call or meeting, and invite your team members by simply sharing a link. it is easy to use and has apps available for all devices including mobile phones. zoom offers a free service plan which includes conference calls with up to 100 participants and unlimited 1 on 1 meetings. this is quite enough for most small businesses with remote teams. the downside of the free plan is that conference calls are limited to 40 minutes duration. this is really frustrating because all attendees will start to see a countdown timer, and at 40 minutes mark, the app will kick everyone out of the meeting room. unlike the first two providers in our list, zoom does not give you a dedicated virtual business phone number. however each zoom meeting gets a unique dial-in code that participants can use to join via phone, in case they don’t have the app or access to reliable internet. pricing: basic plan is free, but you can upgrade to their paid plan to remove the time limit and unlock other features. pricing starts from $14.99 / month per host. note: our team uses zoom for internal team meetings and video calls. our team leads have the pro plan, so they can run longer meetings as needed since only the host has to have a pro account to run unlimited length meetings. 4. g suite hangouts / meet g suite offers google hangout meetings for conference calls and video meetings. it offers secure messaging, chat, audio, and video conferencing for small businesses and teams. it is also available for free via google hangouts apps which also support online conference calls. however, as part of g suite, you get a professional business email address, cloud storage, google apps like calendar, sheets, docs, and more. unlike some other conference call software on the list, google hangouts does not come with a business phone number. users can join meetings with a dial-in number, but you don’t get any features of proper business phone service. pricing: classic google hangouts is free. g suite’s paid plans start from $6 / month per user. a single g suite user can run a meeting with up to 100 participants. you can increase the limit to 150 participants (g suite business plan), and up to 250 participants on g suite enterprise / education plan. 5. microsoft teams microsoft teams is a multi-purpose communication tool for remote teams and small businesses. it comes with text messaging, group chats, channels, file sharing, and audio / video conferencing features. it is super easy to set up your small business team. microsoft teams works on all operating systems and devices including mobile phones. the basic software is free for all, but you get even more features with office 365 which is microsoft’s productivity suite. office 365 allows you to get a professional business email and all microsoft office apps including outlook, word, excel, and more. microsoft teams also does not give you features of a business phone service. if you need to manage customer calls, then you may still need a phone service. pricing: the basic microsoft teams is free but you can upgrade to office 365 which starts at $5 per user per month. 6. skype skype is a popular messaging and audio / video call app. it has been the go-to way to conduct one on one (1:1) conferences and meeting for freelancers, entrepreneurs, and individual users. it allows you to call local and international phone numbers from your skype app. you can also get a local phone number from various regions and countries and receive calls on that number. skype offers hd video conferencing, screen sharing, call recording, file-sharing, and more. skype works really great for 1-on-1 calls, but during video conferencing adding more participants degrades the call quality significantly. pricing: the basic skype app is free to use. if you add a phone number or want to make phone calls, then you’ll need to buy upgrades. pricing varies based on the region and call-rates. 7. gotomeeting gotomeeting is another good option for conference calls and online meetings. their service offers quick online meetings with simple sharing tools allowing all team members to join in using any device. they have apps for all operating systems including mobile phones, which allows you to conduct meetings on the go. optionally, you can also add toll-free numbers to your plan and allow users to dial in to join a conference call. pricing: starting from $12 per organizer per month. 8. slack slack is the popular productivity and communication app for remote teams. it comes with a built-in audio / video call feature allowing you to make conference calls without leaving the app. as a team collaboration tool, slack comes with integrations for many popular productivity apps that your team may already be using, like asana, google drive, google calendar, gmail, zoom, and more. slack does not include a phone service, so if you are looking for conference calls with customers or run webinars, then it cannot do that. pricing: basic free plan limited to 10,000 message history and 1:1 calls. standard plan starts at $6.67 per user per month. note: we use slack for our internal team chats and group messages. some of our team members use slack call features when zoom or other platforms are not working properly. 9. uberconference uberconference is another great free conference call service to communicate with remote teams and customers. it is super easy to use. you can simply invite users by sharing a url, and they don’t need to download anything to join in the call. it works on all devices including mobile phones. the platform include easy screen sharing, call transcripts, custom hold music, schedule call reminders, and apps for all devices. it is part of dialpad which allows you to integrate a business phone service to your uberconference plan. you can also integrate it with slack, g suite, and office 365. pricing: free plan allows you to add up to 10 participants. paid plans start at $15 per organizer per month with up to 100 participants. which is the best conference call service? all the above-mentioned software platforms allow you to conduct conference calls and online video meetings. however, you need to pick the one that best suits your needs. if you need a business phone service to manage your audio conference calls, then nextiva is the best option. if you want an all-inclusive platform (phone + video conferencing), then ringcentral is the best conferencing call platform. if you are looking for a standalone video-conferencing service, then zoom is the best since it allows you to add multiple participants without losing quality. slack and microsoft teams are both suitable for better team collaboration, text messaging, and file sharing with basic conference call features. we hope this article helped you find the best online conference call software. you may also want to see our tips on best email marketing services and best live chat software for small businesses. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 55 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. comments congratulations, you have the opportunity to be the first commenter on this article. have a question or suggestion? please leave a comment to start the discussion. leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) showthemes coupon get 20% off on showthemes beautiful wordpress themes for event websites. all in one seo pro coupon get 50% off all in one seo pack pro, the most popular wordpress seo plugin in the market. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.