wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » opinion » 9 common wordpress myths debunked (with explanation) 9 common wordpress myths debunked (with explanation) last updated on october 4th, 2018 by editorial staff 506 shares share tweet share pin despite wordpress being the most popular website builder in the world, there are a lot of misinformation about wordpress on the internet. some of these common wordpress myths and misconceptions end up confusing users and leading them to choose the wrong platform. in this article, we will debunk the top wordpress myths with detailed explanations, so you can choose the best website platform for your needs (whether it’s wordpress or not). note: when we say wordpress, we are talking about self-hosted wordpress.org, not to be confused with wordpress.com. they are two different platforms, see our guide on the difference between wordpress.org vs wordpress.com. 1. wordpress is just a blogging tool one of the most persistent wordpress myths is mistaking wordpress as just a blogging software. it is not. wordpress is a powerful website builder that can be used to build almost any kind of website imaginable. it powers more than 31% of all websites on the internet, and a vast number of these websites are not just blogs. wordpress is used for corporate sites, building an online store / ecommerce site, online magazines, and so much more. it is used by governments, universities, and many fortune 500 companies. the popular wordpress ecommerce plugin, woocommerce, is actually the biggest ecommerce platform in the world (larger than shopify, magento, and others). want to start a non-blog website using wordpress? here are some guides that you may find helpful. how to make a website how to make a small business website how to create a wordpress membership website how to start an online store how to create an online marketplace if this is not enough, then here is a full list of different types of websites you can create with wordpress. 2. wordpress is not secure another common myth that we hear often is that wordpress is less secure than some other proprietary software. wordpress is very secure, and this is one of the reasons for its popularity. wordpress is an open source software which means its source code is available online for anyone to study and find security loopholes. wordpress is extremely flexible, and its security can be further strengthened by taking a few extra steps. malware and brute force attacks are common on the web and are not just limited to wordpress. this is why there are specialized security services like sucuri which provide monitoring service and website firewall to protect against common web threats. you can make your wordpress site even more secure by taking simple steps like using strong passwords and by following some security best practices. we have prepared a step by step wordpress security guide that will help you secure your website like a pro. 3. wordpress does not support ecommerce another prevalent wordpress myth is that it does not support ecommerce. by default, wordpress does not come with a shopping cart feature. however, there are plenty of wordpress plugins that add ecommerce functionality to wordpress. the most popular of them is woocommerce, which powers more than 42% ecommerce websites in the world. whether you want to sell physical goods or digital downloads, you will be able to do that quite easily with one of the wordpress ecommerce plugins. we have a step by step guide on how to start an online store with wordpress. 4. future of wordpress is uncertain wordpress is a free and open source software. many people who don’t know how open source software work, believe in the myth that the future of wordpress is not clear, and it could just suddenly disappear. wordpress is not developed by a single person, but a community of passionate and professional developers. it is a protected trademark owned by a non-profit organization called wordpress foundation, which protects the wordpress brand name and promotes the open source software. there are thousands of small and large wordpress companies selling products and services based on wordpress. many of these companies actively participate in the wordpress community. the wordpress community is not just one company, person, or a small group that would just suddenly disappear. it consists of hundreds and thousands of people from all over the world. while wordpress itself is free, this eco-system alone powers millions of dollars in annual revenue for businesses involved. in short, wordpress is not going anywhere and its future is bright. 5. there is very limited support available for wordpress another common concern expressed by some beginner level users is that since they are not paying anyone to use wordpress, there is no one to help them out when they need support. there is a ton of free wordpress support available all over the internet. wordpress.org the official website has a very active support forum where you can ask your questions for free and get help from other wordpress users. wpbeginner itself is a free online resource site with tons of wordpress tutorials and guides. here are some of the useful resources that you will find on wpbeginner (all of them are totally free). wpbeginner blog – the central place for all our wordpress tutorials and guides. wpbeginner dictionary – our wordpress glossary is the best place to familiarize yourself with the wordpress lingo wpbeginner videos – new wordpress users can start with these 23 videos to master wordpress. wpbeginner on youtube – need more video instructions? subscribe to our youtube channel with more than 110,000 subscribers and 10 million+ views. wpbeginner blueprint – check out plugins, tools, and services we use on wpbeginner. wpbeginner deals – exclusive discounts on wordpress products and services for wpbeginner users. however, if you would feel more comfortable by paying someone, then there are many wordpress developers, agencies, and businesses that would offer you paid support as well. see our article on the best places to hire wordpress developers. 6. wordpress is free so it must be low quality another common wordpress myth is that since wordpress is free, then it must be low quality. beginners have asked us why would developers do their best work for a free software? wordpress is not developed by just one person or a small team. it is developed by thousands of developers and is used by millions of websites. the code is open source for anyone to read, scrutinize, and examine for quality. it follows and adheres to the very best programming practices. the code behind wordpress is rock solid, developer friendly, open, and free. it is also a state of art publishing system with a very easy to use interface. this is why wordpress is immensely popular and way ahead of any other cms software in the world. wordpress is used by some of the largest brands including but not limited to cnn, microsoft, adobe, the new york times, and many more. 7. all wordpress sites look similar a common wordpress myth among beginners is that all wordpress sites look alike. wordpress uses themes which control the visual appearance of any wordpress powered website, and there are thousands of wordpress themes available. many of them are free, but you also have large collection of premium wordpress themes as well. there are premium wordpress theme shops like studiopress, cssigniter, themify, and many others who sell beautifully designed wordpress themes for all kind of websites. these themes come with customization options of their own, so you can change colors, layout, add your own logo and do anything you want with your theme. last but not least, there are powerful wordpress page builder plugins that allow you to use a simple drag and drop interface to create your own layouts without any programming skills. to sum it all, your wordpress site will look exactly how you want it to look! 8. wordpress is for beginners another common myth that we often hear from users who don’t know much about wordpress is that it is more suitable for beginner level users who don’t know any css, html, or programming. this is not entirely true. while wordpress is extremely easy to use for beginners, it is also used by corporations, businesses, and developers. wordpress is equally popular among beginners and advanced level users. for beginners, the good part is that they can create their websites without learning any programming or web design skills. for developers, wordpress provides great flexibility to extend the software with custom code using plugins and themes. 9. wordpress is not well suited for large (high traffic) sites this myth is promoted by developers of other platforms who fail to acknowledge that wordpress powers some of the most popular websites on the internet. this includes high traffic websites like techcrunch, the new yorker, variety, and our own site wpbeginner. since wordpress is a self-hosted platform, you are responsible to manage its performance and scale your server resources as your website grows. we have a step by step wordpress performance guide that will help you learn how to take control of wordpress performance. if you don’t want to deal with the technical side, then you can use a managed wordpress hosting provider like wp engine that takes care of the technical side for you. we hope that this article helped you debunk the common wordpress myths and better understand the true power of wordpress. you may also want to see our article on interesting facts about wordpress (infograph). if you’re not convinced about wordpress, then we recommend taking a look at our list of popular wordpress alternatives to see if any of the other platforms better suit your needs. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 506 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 20 commentsleave a reply dan fleischhacker says: jun 12, 2017 at 9:51 am it is stressed over and over that wordpress blog setup is free. that is not so. they recommend a three month “contract” that is about a hundred dollars. how is this “free?” reply wpbeginner support says: jun 12, 2017 at 10:07 pm hi dan, please note that we are talking about self hosted wordpress.org and not the wordpress.com. please see our guide on the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs free wordpress.com blog. wordpress.org the software is free. please see our guide on why is wordpress free?. you will still have to pay for hosting (all websites on the internet need hosting) and a domain name. reply walter schlupp says: jun 3, 2017 at 5:33 pm perhaps you mignt make clear from the beginning whether the page is on wordpress.org or wordpress.com. from reading i gather it is wp.org, because amentioned feature are not availble in wp.com. reply teddy wade says: jun 24, 2015 at 7:25 pm is it true that wordpress does not allow banner ads to appear on wordpress.org created websites that are sold by the site owner, or by an affiliate company, or by google adsense? i’ve found info online that says no and some that says yes. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 26, 2015 at 11:59 pm wordpress.org has no control on your website. you can do whatever you want with it. reply shazia faqir says: mar 4, 2014 at 4:47 pm really good article here on wordpress misconceptions, iv just recently begun working with wordpress to build a blog site, although it does take time to understand how it works, pages, posts, catergories but it is much easier than creating a website using all the html, css and php; especially when your not a dab hand at programming. reply anirban pathak says: feb 5, 2014 at 2:18 am great post. please tell me how to add background music in our wordpress blog. i mean to say when somebody check our website then he or she can hear music. reply james todd says: jan 26, 2014 at 1:18 pm thanks for this information on wordpress. when i wanted to build a website for pc repair and service, my son who is much more experienced with website design and marketing (having done it for the past 11 years), suggested i start with wordpress because it is easy to learn but with unlimited possibilities. he was right!. after building my own i have found a few clients for website work and enjoy it immensely. as time goes on i am learning new things everyday having to do with design, and especially customizing the site to suit my needs and those of my customers. i have had to use other software to modify and update sites originally built on platforms other than wordpress. just reminds me how great wordpress is. and hats off to the community as well. i haven’t had a need or question that hasn’t been cared for by one of the thousands of people who write articles and provide tutorials, by text or video. i hope as time goes on to share what i have learned with others. wordpress is first class all the way! reply mark evans says: jan 26, 2014 at 9:45 am one of the best things about wordpress is its user-friendliness. it’s one of the biggest reason why i encourage all my startup clients to use wordpress because it gives them the freedom to easily and quickly make changes. reply les waldeck says: jan 26, 2014 at 12:43 am a big buzzword nowadays is “silo structured” site, the idea being to imitate an “authority” site, with the aim of helping your site climb up the serps. problem is: all the advice on this matter suggests that one can only achieve a “virtual” silo with wordpress, using categories, or by direct linking one page to the next in the silo. one cannot really structure the directories and files as you would with other methods. both wordpress plugins i have create only virtual silos: mo mia’s seozen premium plugin (via alex becker) and istvan horvath’s wp ultimate silo free plugin. have you perhaps already written a post on this topic? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 27, 2014 at 6:36 pm no we have not written about this. silos are basically sites with organized content (which can be done by categories). while not the only way, it is probably the most efficient way of accomplishing this. using breadcrumbs to show proper structure in the site is also helpful. reply virendra sharma says: jan 24, 2014 at 6:32 am please tell me how to add background music in our wordpress blog. i mean to say when somebody check our website then he or she can hear music. help me asap please reply sigmundo says: feb 2, 2014 at 5:18 pm i wouldn’t put music on a website played automatically, but let the user take full control of this! you can easily add any mp3 in a site using an audioplayer-plugin… reply mike says: jan 23, 2014 at 3:52 pm great article about wp. really love the “factoid” #6. microsoft frontpage, which was purchased, not microsoft designed, cost money. microsoft what? lmao best ftp client? filezilla….free, etc., etc. reply pooria says: jan 23, 2014 at 3:09 pm great article thanks. reply john parkinson says: jan 23, 2014 at 12:12 pm syed, nicely done! could i have your permission to make reference to this post during a presentation i am going to give at wordcamp dayton? j reply editorial staff says: jan 24, 2014 at 8:11 am ofcourse john. i wish i can be at wordcamp dayton. fingers crossed to see if i can pull some sort of magic out. reply nathan driver says: feb 7, 2014 at 11:08 am how’s that magic working – it would be great to have you attend the first wcdayton reply dave navarro says: jan 23, 2014 at 9:10 am what’s the source on that 22% figure? i’m working on a report and could use that info. thanks! reply editorial staff says: jan 23, 2014 at 9:32 am hey dave, we used this number from two sources. first the recent article techcrunch did: http://techcrunch.com/2014/01/13/matt-mullenweg-becomes-automattic-ceo-as-toni-schneider-shifts-focus-to-new-products/ second w3tech survey http://w3techs.com/technologies/details/cm-wordpress/3/all -syed reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.