home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid market your writing promotion by mike loomis books can make, break, or elevate a brand. and author blunders destroy a book. a book is the ultimate business card and a creative way to expand your voice. most of all, publishing a book is a powerful way to share your story and expertise in a way that can change someone’s life. as someone involved in the book industry for twenty years, i’ve seen plenty of successes and flops. and the ever-changing publishing landscape has created unprecedented opportunities for new authors to stand out. 1.do it for the money. yes, a successful book should be cashflow positive. but there are other ways to measure roi. some clients measure their book’s effectiveness by the doors that open or the clients they land. it’s quite possible to sell ten books, and earn $100k in new business as a result. not a bad return, right? additionally, if money is the main motivation, the quality of the book will suffer. when writing your book, keep your reader in mind, and hold nothing back to help them. 2.fall in love with the title. no matter how much you love the working title of your book, if there are twelve other identical titles available on amazon — or one by malcolm gladwell — it’s time for another brainstorming session. do the painful work of brainstorming a title and subtitle early in the process. this will help you center the writing around a theme or word-picture. that said, be open about changing the title and subtitle as the book evolves. 3.design the cover. this is one of the most common author blunders i see. your book is a product, not just personal expression. unless your business creates bestselling book covers, hire a professional, and utilize focus-group testing. cover design is an art form unto itself, so don’t be a control freak. if every focus group prefers a design that’s not your favorite, consider a new favorite, or keep trying. bottom line — don’t settle until your cover is amazing. 4.don’t plan the book like a business. the most helpful nonfiction books are equal parts visceral expression and strategic planning. purposely decide how you want the book to position you and build your brand. i always begin a project by interviewing the author and drawing out what the marketing pitch will be for the book. people buy books to find answers and solve problems. what questions is your ideal reader asking? what problems do they face? before you write, plan the progression you want the reader to experience and how you will address their questions and struggles. develop a clear value proposition for your book, and make sure each chapter delivers on that promise. 5.don’t let your humanity show. i have two goals for chapter one of any nonfiction book i help develop : the reader must like the author, and the reader must trust the author. the old adage applies here, “people don’t care how much you know until they know how much you care.” since your primary motivation is to help the reader, make that clear in the first chapter. in addition to showing glimpses of your accomplishments, to build credibility, you must not take yourself too seriously. admit a huge blunder or a weakness the reader can relate to. in other words, be human. 6.don’t obtain endorsements. it’s so much easier than you think to connect with the influencers you admire and receive a valuable endorsement blurb for your book. for first-time authors, endorsements are key to building credibility. an endorsement is a win-win proposition if your book is solid. the endorsers get their name and credentials out to a new audience, and your brand is elevated in the process. think about it. when perusing a new book, don’t you look at the endorsements and foreword when making a buying decision? so why not have persuasive endorsements on your book? the most strategic endorsements are from either well-known authors or those with well-known brands in their title. for example, people might not know jill-bob smith, but they will recognize the brand they represent. 7.don’t test the content. book ideas are great fun. we carry them around inside us with a warm fuzzy feeling. we imagine strolling into the bank with enormous royalty checks. but it’s scary to test a book idea in a blog, social media post, or shop an article to an industry publication. what if people hate your premise? or worse — what if no one cares? but this is where books go from good to great. use feedback to thicken your writer-skin and deliver a better product. use social media to test your insights and craft more memorable statements. as with the development of any product, build a prototype, test it, and improve. 8.don’t tell stories. no matter how riveting your worldview and ideas are, stories are the life blood of a good book. human beings are wired to perk up when hearing or reading a story. and, believe it or not, your readers want to hear your stories. i recommend at least one story in every chapter. these can be from your life, business, or stories from history. and remember, if stories involve colleagues, get written permission to use their names, and/or modify the details and names to protect the innocent. 9.don’t start. your book might just launch your career to places you never imagined. but if you don’t start, you’ll never finish. and you’ll never know how many people your book could have helped. editor’s note: don’t hit “publish” yet! your book is more than a book—it’s an ambassador for your brand and your career. if you find this post helpful, you’ll be interested in mike’s branding course for authors. click here for details and 50% off exclusively for writetodone readers. tweet pin2 share249 251 shares related posts how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? by laura tong about the author mike loomis mike loomis helps people launch their dream projects and books. he’s the author of your brand is calling, and my book launch planner. he and his wife live in the mountains of colorado with their pet moose.www.mikeloomis.co ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >