start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream 6 comments menu start your ventureovercome fearproductivitytime management 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream 6 comments9 months ago36 min read 26shares imagine a time machine pulling you in and teleporting you to a different world. in this world, each morning you wake up excited and head to your office to work on your dream goal. (your dream could be starting a business, traveling the world, becoming a billionaire, being a full-time photographer/musician or building the next big thing). do you think you will have monday blues ever again? how would you feel if you will never have to deal with a nagging boss, answer tons of emails or attend boring meetings? what would it be like to follow your dreams? isn’t it the best feeling to never have to say my job sucks or wish i could be doing… ? with enough time, effort and discipline, you can make this dream world a reality. i will share tips on how to make the switch from the job you hate to the dream goal you love. other articles on the same topic would ask you to quit your job right now and start your venture. they would advise so because they say without any risk there will be no reward. but you don’t find the decision quite that simple, do you? for you quitting your full-time job to follow your dream seems like fighting with an octopus. you know you have a possibility to win but the chances are very remote. don’t worry, i will not ask you to take a blind leap of faith. i will cover all possible risks involved with quitting and help you prepare for taking the plunge over time. why do you not quit the job you hate? “i hate my job.” does this resonate with you? hearing this statement is as common as encountering sunlight these days. if you go out of the house, you will hear someone or the other utter those words. you can look at many reasons why people do not quit a job they hate. let me reiterate the story of adam. in his current company, adam has a full-time job as a manager of quality analysis. he has always wanted to run a successful continental restaurant. adam hates his job from the bottom of his heart. he hates sunday nights because he has to wake up the next morning to go to work. he wishes he had a different job. yet he decides to hang on and put up with disappointment he feels on a daily basis and his manager whom he would punch if there were no consequences. the society has taught him that being unhappy with your job is normal. nobody taught him per se but since a majority of the people complain about their job, he believes he is no different. he believes only the lucky few have the privilege of working on what they love. do you know why do people like adam find it so difficult to quit a job they hate? here are some of the primary reasons: 1. fomo or fear of missing out: one part of adam thinks everyday “i hate my job, how could i miss anything if i moved elsewhere?”. but the other part of him prevents him from making the decision to quit. as much as he hates his job, he has developed a sense of complacency with his current job on certain areas deep in his subconscious which he is not completely aware of. he worries about missing his salary, security, and stability if he quits his job. now wonder fomo is now an official word in the oxford dictionary. if you are like adam, in your subconscious you have learned to value job stability, peaceful commute, great salary benefits, familiarity with the job profile. you worry that if you quit your job uncertainty surrounds these areas. 2. i am not good enough adam believes working on his dream job of running a restaurant is beyond his own abilities. he believes the people who achieved success are superhuman freaks of nature born with incredible talent. little does adam know the real`. the successful people already working on their dream job did not do so because they were far more talented than him. they did so because they believed in their own ability. james allen has rightly said in his book as a man thinketh, “a man is literally what he thinks, his character being the complete sum of all his thoughts.” do not be an adam and convince yourself that you are not good enough. if you do, you will find it almost impossible to get to the place that you love. 3. not willing to put in any effort: once adam gets home from the job he hates, he spends hours watching a show on tv or scrolling through the endless feed on social media. yet, he believes that he is saying the truth when he says he has no time. he has convinced his inner self about the lie. in reality, he has ample time to work on his goals if he wanted to. he even has some reasons made up to justify this to himself like “i need a break after a long day or i am a social person, i want to connect with people.” if you are like adam, you will cite fatigue or relaxation as a reason for not working on your goals. you truly believe you are very busy when in reality you can make the time to work on your dream if you want to. to continue growing in life and expanding your horizon you have to put in constant effort. in fact, successful people achieve their results not because of inborn talent but by putting in the effort every day. while there are many other minor reasons why people stick on to the job they hate, these 3 are the topmost reasons for most people. quitting your job is sour, scary and stressful. no states quitting as an easy task. however, whining and complaining about your current job has helped nobody either. if you are stuck in a forest, would you whine about your problem or would you attempt to save yourself? similarly, if you want to work on what you love, you need to have the willingness to put in the effort until you get there. quitting your job can be fruitful and provide you the much deserved peace of mind. 7 reasons why you should quit your job: the advantages of quitting your job are many. 1. your income can increase exponentially: in your current job your salary changes by a single-digit percentage(2-10% based on your location) every year. a part of the increase goes into inflation and higher taxation leaving you with only a marginal raise. if you switch your job, get promoted up the ladder, you will receive a larger increase but promotions do not happen every year. by running your own business you can scale your business to a very high level. the initial income might take some time to pick up but once it does, your income can increase to 2x, 10x, 100x, 1000x, 1000000x or more. you have no upper cap because the sky is the limit. 2. you grow as a person: by following your dream you embark on a journey. during this journey, you learn new skills from a wide array of related areas. for example, if you begin with the goal of starting a restaurant, not only will you learn about food, but also treating customers well, optimizing running costs, reducing wastage and so on. at times you will intentionally attempt to improve in certain areas to improve your business and sometimes you learn as a part of the journey. 3. you get to work on what you love it is said, “if you quit your job and you shift from doing something you didn’t like to something you do like, you’re already solving one of the greatest problems in life.” wouldn’t it feel like moving from a porridge to a 3-course meal? you wake up every morning knowing you no longer have to attend boring meetings and check endless emails you don’t care about. 4. work seems like work no more: due to your passion for your goal, work does not seem like the regular job you do. on certain days you may not feel like working, but in general, you have an adrenaline rush to head to work and do your best. in your current job, you hate doing certain parts of your job. even when you follow your dream, you will still have to do certain things which you hate. but because the outcome helps the greater good, you manage to sail through. 5. you do not have to curse your manager i am sure you hate the feeling of having to curse your manager every now and then. do you frequently say “my manager is a jerk, he is a pain the butt, he never recognizes my effort, he never welcomes my ideas, he points at my mistakes all the time, he is never satisfied?” you no longer have to say any of that. 6. you are your own boss. one of the most rewarding parts of starting your own venture is you are the boss. you no longer have to adhere to rules. instead, you make the rules. if your boss turned down your ideas earlier, you have all the authority to implement any idea of your choice. you are the boss of your own time too. if you do not feel like working one day, you can take the day off. 7. you will continuously improve your skills while working on the area you are passionate about you will put in far more effort. ask a guitar player how long can he sit in one place and practice new skills on his guitar. ask him if he would invest the same amount of time in learning computer skills. you know what the guitar player would say. now try asking a passionate computer programmer if he can spend the same amount on the guitar. he surely won’t. the more you love the job the more effort you will choose to put in. we have an inbuilt feature to do so by nature. disadvantages of quitting your job if quitting your job only had advantages, we would have a world filled with entrepreneurs and no employees. before you make the decision of quitting your job, you need to take a hard look at the disadvantages too. 1. your monthly income is not steady until your business stabilizes starting your venture is like learning skiing. when you first begin you will keep falling until you gain balance and struggle to stay on your feet. during the early days, you realize the value of a monthly paycheck and start missing it. if your regular job earns you a comfortable income, you miss it a lot more. you can no longer buy the things you earlier could. you can no longer visit a fancy restaurant you earlier could. you no longer have the money to buy the watch you earlier could. 2. people look up to and follow you: people follow your lead of the leader. in this case, you are the leader and people will follow you whether you like it or not. if you show up at the office late regularly, your employees will not be on time either. if you act careless and rude while talking to customers, your employees will do the same. if you do not strive hard to grow the business, neither will your employees. think about your current manager. if he came to work late every day, would you not follow the same? once you are the boss, the tides would have turned. are you prepared to be a good example? 3. leading people is not as easy as it seems like if you have no experience leading people, you will most likely suck at leading and managing your employees. it is quite easy to complain about your manager lacking good people skills. thoughts will run in your head saying “i would do far better than him” or “i have better managerial skills than my manager.” in real when you fall into deep water, you will first try to stay alive. when you are focusing on growing your business, you will believe you can get people to do like you want because you have authority. but did your current boss manage to do that? of course not. chances are you will hurt your employees and trample upon them making them consider you a terrible boss. you will take some time and learn it the hard way. 4. your venture can stress you out more than your job the media portrays a fancy picture of the entrepreneurs who started their own ventures. therefore, people have the wrong notion that in your own venture every day will be a motivated and energetic day at work. the internet tells you only the rosy picture but every venture runs through challenges. things break down, emergencies happen, people quit and expenses run crazy. even though you love what you are doing, your attention will be pulled in more than the area that you just love. for example, your lounge bar is growing and all of sudden the government imposes a ban on selling liquor in your area. you have a bazillion things to worry about now. as an employee, you can look for another job. but wait, you are the boss. you have to figure a way out. 5. you might have to work longer hours and off hours elon musk still works over 14 hours a day. you might expect your venture to be as calm as the breeze of the ocean while in reality, it could turn out like the tide of the ocean. if you believe you can work when you like, relax when you like and enjoy when you like, you are mistaken. to drive your venture towards success you will most likely work more hours than your regular job. if not forever, you will be forced to do so during the initial days. you will taste both the thrill and the fatigue of the journey. 6. when your business takes time to succeed people will start questioning your decision when you quit your job and start your venture, people will congratulate you. friends will tell you they love your guts and you did what they can never muster the guts for. if you encounter early success, good for you. but, success could take longer than you expect. if that happens the same people who congratulated you will start talking behind your back about how stupid your decision to quit was. sometimes people speak and ridicule you in person too. my friends have advised me to look for another job when my venture sailed through a rough patch. initially, only a few people question your decision. as time goes by, many of your friends, family, loved ones and neighbors start doing the same. eventually, you start questioning your own decision too. you start thinking “did i do the right thing? maybe i am not cut for this.” i have faced such thoughts many times and so have many other entrepreneurs. 7. you need a lot of discipline to succeed if you believe you have a wonderful idea and it will pave the way to your success, you are too optimistic. all ideas seem brilliant in the hindsight after their success. 20 years back if i told you, i am building an app where i can post a small message of 2 sentences for the world to read, would you not consider me nuts? today, that is twitter for you. ideas are cheap, dirt cheap. only the execution separates a billion dollar company from a company that never took off. every tom, dick, and harry on every street, in every city, roam with an idea which he/she thinks will blossom into the next big thing. even with a great idea, it takes a lot of discipline to succeed. initially, when you start off, you will be full of energy to deliver the idea. if your idea does not get the necessary traction you expected, the excitement will start waning. you end up frustrated at times and thoughts creep into your head saying maybe the idea was not so great after all. it takes immense grit and mettle to carry on with what you believe, even when results do not show up. myths about quitting your job and starting your own business many people want to start their own venture but only a few do. people who haven’t started do not bother to talk to entrepreneurs with experience. the people who talk the most about how the experience of a venture is, are those who have never started a venture of their own. therefore, the minds of employed people are clouded with a lot of wrong assumptions about entrepreneurship. here are the top 7 myths of starting your own venture: 1. you need a lot of capital(money) i was recently speaking to a talented young guy in his early 20’s. when i asked him what was his long term goal, he said: “i want to be an intrapreneur.” an intrapreneur plays the role of an entrepreneur by being employed for a company. when i asked him why he said, “i do not have the capital to start on my own”. he did not even have a clear idea of what he wanted to build but he already believed that without capital, you cannot begin a business. you know what, most of the big companies you know today started with bare minimum investment. even you could save such money or borrow it or find an early investor. based on what you want to build you can even start with 0 investment. steve jobs and steve wozniak sold their laptop and vehicle to gather 1,500 $ to fund apple. wrigley was roaming around with 32$(equivalent to 1000$ today) in his pocket with an idea to start chewing gum manufacturing. he managed to convince his uncle to fund the initial investment. today, you have far more avenues to begin your startup with 0 investment. building a software product requires a very minimal upfront investment. if you have an idea but do not know programming, you can find a partner who does. you can go the crowdfunding way. the options are plenty. you live in the best possible time to start a venture without any money. 2. you need to quit your job if you do not put any effort thinking you can begin your company only after you have quit your job, you are procrastinating because of your laziness. do you need to know expert level english to begin reading books? just like you can begin reading books with a minimal grasp of english, you can start working on your startup while you have some spare time after a regular full-time job. when i started my first company, i was working full time as a developer for an it organization. i spent the last 6 months of my job building websites for clients after getting back home from work. was it busy and hectic? it sure was. was it worth it? absolutely. 3. owning a business is less stressful than your regular job as much as you will love working for your own venture, your attention will be required in multiple areas. when you start off, you will have a small team. you will not have different people looking after sales, operations, development, marketing and so on. you will be putting on various hats. you will work on certain areas that you do not enjoy. stress will cause you to pull your hair many a time depending on how south things go. if you intend to live a stress-free life, starting your venture will not help you get there. starting a venture is not for the faint-hearted and requires a thick skin. 4. you need to know everything about setting up a business do you think sam walton knew every nook and corner about retail before he started walmart? with a loan from his father and some savings, he started one store and built walmart from scratch. if he waited to know all the know-how about the business, walmart would never exist today. many people believe that without in-depth knowledge of the business they cannot start. sure, you need a fair amount of knowledge and have to spend time on research. however, unless you get your feet into muddy water, you will not understand every aspect of the business. i started a business recently which was fairly similar to another business i had set up earlier and we still encountered many surprises. you never know everything until you indulge yourself in the business. in fact, you will never ever know everything about your business. 5. ideas pave the way to success ideas mean nothing. a great idea with shitty execution goes nowhere. an average idea with brilliant execution can lead to success. all the successful companies you know today have gone through a period of seamless and thoughtful execution irrespective of how good an idea it started with. on the other hand, many great ideas have seen the dust. if you believe your idea is the next big thing and will fetch you massive success, you will be surprised. an idea means nothing without execution. many people i know keep their ideas a secret thinking other people will steal them. i challenge you to discuss the idea with a friend and ask him if he is willing to partner with you. in most cases, your friend will not join you because he does not find the idea as great as you do. 6. i will be excited to work on my startup you are right. you will be excited to work on your startup. when you start off, you are full of energy, enthusiasm, and excitement. with time, the frenzy calms down. i do not mean to say that you will lose interest completely but things change. take an example of your favorite dish. do you think you can enjoy eating it every day? similarly, after a certain amount of time, even your own dream becomes a part of your routine. when things are not going in the direction you expected, you will be angry, stressed and frustrated. do not expect every single day of your startup life to be full of furor. the path of your start journey will be like an adventure. you will love the thrill of the adventure and also hate the bumpy parts of it. 7. once i start my own business i’ll have the freedom to do what i want when i want once your business is up and running, you might have lesser time and freedom than you have right now. does a nanny take care of her baby just like the babies of her clients? of course not. she pays more attention to her baby. at least most nannies do. similarly, you will show way more concern towards your own business than the organization you work for. you might find it difficult to make time for vacations, holidays, taking a break and so on. again, this depends on how well you can set up operations to run without your presence. some entrepreneurs are exceptional at eliminating all forms of dependency from themselves so that the business can run seamlessly even in their absence. setting up such operations comes with experience. when you start your first business, you have a tendency to get involved in all areas making yourself the bottleneck. 8. it doesn’t matter if i’m not passionate about the product/service/sector i aim to make loads of money. many people believe that as far as the business brings in cartloads of money, the same excitement remains. while the assumption is right for a small period of time, the quest for more money never ends. for example, currently, you enjoy better comfort than you did 5 years ago. you are more stable, have a better income and afford more things. but has your thirst for money quenched? i doubt it. just like you aim for more now, once you make more money you will target some more. your scale will change but you will target “more” all the time. you start with hundreds, increasing to thousands, a hundred thousand, millions, multi-million and billions. you have stepped on a treadmill operating on infinite electricity. after a point, money stops being the driving force. you find yourself back at square one again. it will feel no different than the current job you hate. so, should you quit right now? we have come to the million-dollar question “should you quit your job and chase your dreams right now?” i wish i could answer the question for you, but you have to answer the question yourself. how many times have you thought about dropping your papers to resign but held back due to fear? you could not make up your mind if quitting your job is the risk you can handle. so you decided to not take any action. most dream big articles will tell you to take a blind leap of faith and pursue your dream. not only is such a rushed decision risky but also stupid. most entrepreneurs do not do that. you only hear the story of their success and the fact that they suddenly decided to quit. they might have. but they also had the required skills, a sense of direction for their venture and the confidence to handle the worst case scenario. if you had to run a marathon with no prior, what would you do? will you sign up today and run the marathon tomorrow? any person with any common sense would practice before even making an attempt. similarly, to take the plunge you need to evaluate if you are ready right now. if not, you do not have to be disappointed. all you need to do is start preparing. try answering the questions below to help you determine, how and when can you make the tough decision. 1. do you have the skills? what are the key skills required for starting your business? if you are building a software product, do you have experience in programming? you do not need to have the coding skills of a ninja with which you build a software capable of scaling for a million users. but you must have a fair amount of programming skills. if not, can you bring a partner who can do the coding? if you have to learn programming yourself, how much of an effort do you need to put in? should you learn the skill yourself or should you outsource the effort? make an honest evaluation of your skills and how you could cover the gap. do not assume yourself to be a superman or a mouse. 2. have you done the research? do you know what basic aspects cover the barebones of the business you are aiming to start? if you intend to open a restaurant, you need to know how to handle inventory, supplies, wastage, restocking, order queuing, manpower handling, operations and so on. if you haven’t, you do not have to panic because none of these involves rocket science. you do not even have to know all these areas in depth. but if you quit your job today to start your restaurant without knowing anything about any of these areas, you are being stupid. you can start today while you have your full-time job by talking to other restaurant owners. you can read online, speak to entrepreneurs and mentors in related fields. you can start looking for an appropriate area which has not enough restaurants in the vicinity. you can work on a bunch of things right now to understand your business area better. 3. do you have the money? i know i earlier said that you can start your venture without a lot of money. when i say do you have money, i mean are you prepared to handle your monthly expenses? if you have a steady income and decide to take the plunge, you will have to work out the finances. going from a regular monthly income to no monthly income is not easy. with cash burning and no money landing into your bank account, you could panic. therefore, make a fair assessment on when could you start making money from your business. the income from a business varies from segment to segment. if you are starting a restaurant you will earn money from the first month. if your venture into a software product you might need months or even years to generate income. do you have the funds to manage for the entire duration with no income? if not, can you raise investment from an investor or crowdfunding? before quitting, you can start talking to investors to check if for their willingness to invest. make sure you have enough money to pay for your bills, rent, and food. 4. have you spoken to others in the domain? you might have a great idea, but you need to learn from the experience of others in the domain. most entrepreneurs are more than happy to share their share of mistakes so that you avoid makes the same mistakes again. find the right time to talk to fellow entrepreneurs and learn from them. you might have the iq of einstein but experience carries more weight than talent. talk to other entrepreneurs before you quit your job and pay serious attention to their inputs. their advice could be the difference between making and breaking your business. 5. are you prepared for emergencies? do not simply calculate the expenses for a month and multiply it by the number of months you need to generate revenue. unexpected things happen all the time. your car might break down, you might fall sick, a hurricane might hit the street. during your full-time job, such emergencies feel like a pinch. when you have no income, such expenses feel like a stab of a knife. ensure you have health insurance and other back up plans. also, no matter how well you plan your execution, unexpected events will occur. so keep an extra buffer of at least 20%. during the set up of the second branch of our already existing business, the excessive power on our floor burnt the wiring of the whole building. it did not burn a huge hole in the pocket but we had to shell extra bucks. unless you possess clairvoyant abilities, nobody can foresee such scenarios. therefore, no matter how good you think you are, be prepared for emergencies and expected events. just like a well-written piece of code always has a method to handle exceptions, your planning must do the same. just like a well-written piece of code always has a method to handle exceptions, your planning must do the same. 6. do you have a plan b? what’s the timeline? do you have any milestones for your venture? you need to plan how long will you persist with the idea. you must have an idea of what outcome you target from your venture. stephen covey said in his book, 7 habits of highly effective people “begin with the end in mind.” do you know at what point will you sell the business and realize the profit? are you prepared to handle the worst case scenario if you lose all the money, time and energy you put in for the venture? if that happens what will you pursue next? having answers to such questions is important. donald trump once said “while taking a risk i think of what can be the worst possible outcome due to the risk. if i can deal with it, i go ahead with the risk.” having such a roadmap will help add clarity. the planning need not be accurate to the dot. almost certainly things will not go as per your plan. your plan won’t be like a self-driving car, driving exactly as per directions. but you need some idea on where you are headed and if you can handle the situation if everything falls flat on the face. 7. don’t go for the venture only for the money i am not someone who considers chasing money as a bad habit. monetary targets are a part of my goals. you can target monetary numbers as goals. however, if money is the whole and sole target, you will lose your determination in the path. the more money you earn, the bigger the number you will chase. aren’t you chasing a bigger monetary goal than what you were chasing 5 years ago? do you believe that when you have a large sum of say 10 million, you will stop chasing money? why do you think so? if you are chasing bigger monetary numbers than you did 5 years ago, why do you think you will not want to chase 100 million when you reach 10 million? money will remain an endless goal. if you pursue only the money, sooner or later you will be back to the feeling of how you feel at your current job. a wise man said “do not aim to be a millionaire for the million. aim to be a millionaire for the person it will make you.” if you do not enjoy the journey of rags to riches, you will never experience happiness. money is an important goal but must serve as a byproduct of the other side of your dream. 8. don’t wait for the perfect time most of the people who have an idea and want to start a business, somehow have a predetermined future time which they believe is the right time to start. do you hear yourself saying “i will start my business when i am 40 years old” or “i will start working out next month” or “i will start the project mid-week”? if you do, then you are one of them. there is no perfect time to start. i do not mean to say you must quit your job now. however, you can start working towards your dream now. yes, today, now, right now! you believe you will start your venture 2 years later. however, 2 years later, in all likelihood, you will postpone the date again. if you plan to open your venture 2 years later because you need 2 years to gather the capital or learn the skills, it is acceptable. but in most cases, people have no reason to start in the future. the perfect time to start does now exist. 9. consider what you miss due to no action most people consider the risk associated with quitting their job and going down the path of their own venture. but they fail to consider the consequences of not taking any action and accepting their current circumstances. are you willing to lead a life of mediocrity? by not taking a risk, you accept to continue living with your current lifestyle. not taking a risk would mean paying emi’s and surviving pay check to pay check for the rest of your life. what the experts had to say on the topic i had the privilege to ask the opinion of an expert, marcia morgan on this topic. marcia morgan is the author of the book, go – how to get going and achieve your goals at any age. she presented 5 of her thoughts on the topic in her own words: know what you want. identify your passion. be clear and specific about your goal. (note: i want to work with animals” rather “i want to be a veterinarian.”) find “goal objects” that represent your goal and keep them with you to see every day – this helps you keep your “eye on the prize.” (research suggests that people who are reminded to think about their goals every day, visualize the goals and make a solid plan, are much more likely to achieve them). list risks and benefits of leaving your job for your dream, both tangible (e.g., less/more money) and intangible (e.g., happiness, freedom, less stress, fulfilling the soul). review the list to determine your comfort level with not only the risks but how you will feel if you don’t take the risk. think creatively how to further reduce the risks you have listed. identify and prioritize action steps. put them in a sequence so you can make daily progress. (although you may want to go find office space or furniture, you might first need to do a business plan, research laws and regulations, obtain certificates, collect background information, etc.) methodically chip away at your action steps. do them during your lunch hour. recognize that your action steps will take time but when you have a plan, you are passionate and joyful about your dreams and you are making progress while you still have an income, you will achieve your dreams with a smile on your face. conclusion you must know both the dark and the bright side of starting your own venture. you will usually hear or see only one of the sides. i do not want to portray a rosy picture of entrepreneurship nor do i want to kill the pleasure in it. i intend to make you aware of what you are signing up for. to follow your passion and succeed, you ought to know what you’re signing up for. you have to stop complaining you have no time to work on your dream. only once you do will you be able to start the journey. you have a lot more time than you presume. if you wish to start working on your dream goal you can start right now, no matter your circumstances. you will not finish a major chunk of your goal in the next few days but if you start today, you move a step closer. craigslist started with an email sent to 10-12 friends. you can start without any money right now. you can start without the skills. you can start without experience. all you have to do is work on covering these gaps over time. the first best time to start was in the past. the next best time to start is right now. my goal is to help people 1 million people pursue their dreams. share the article and help me with this mission. you don't need a reward to join the productive club, do you? plain and simple. did you find what you just read useful? great, then get more of such tips to sky rocket your productivity. join the productive club. your name your email 26shares maxim dsouza what i am not: billionaire philosopher conventional what i am: mediocrity hater continuously improving self-learner productivity/time management obsessed join the discussion cancel reply comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. 6 comments silvana grosman says: september 25, 2019 at 6:26 am wonderful post.thanks for share..more wait .. … reply maxim dsouza says: september 26, 2019 at 3:10 pm thank you silvana 🙂 reply daniel says: december 6, 2019 at 11:55 am a lot of times, an employer is afraid to quit their job is thinking about losing everything. if we always keep our minds and make the current job center of our living then it will slaves us. you are your own boss, spread your wings, and discover things that would really contribute to building the best in yourself. reply maxim dsouza says: december 9, 2019 at 1:02 pm absolutely daniel. good things always lie on the other side of the comfort zone. reply james s says: february 11, 2020 at 10:18 am i have read your article complete, i found it very informative and useful article, so thanks for sharing this content….. reply maxim dsouza says: february 12, 2020 at 4:34 am thanks james, glad to know it helped. reply top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator learn productivity hacks if you would like to boost your productivity and sky-rocket your efficiency, subsribe to our updates topics flaws of your brain growth at work improve focus overcome fear personal development phase 1 starting off with productivity phase 2 gaining momentum with routine phase 3 transform into a productive super human procrastination productivity sleep start your venture time management further reading improve focuspersonal developmentprocrastinationproductivitytime management how to be productive while working from home 8 hours ago flaws of your braingrowth at workimprove focusovercome fearstart your venture shiny object syndrome – how to stop chasing different goals 3 days ago personal developmentstart your venture how to start a business with no money – 12 step process 7 days ago flaws of your brainovercome fearpersonal developmentproductivity how to stop overthinking and relax – 7 simple tips 1 week ago growth at workovercome fearpersonal developmentprocrastinationproductivitystart your venture the 4 pillars of professional growth 3 weeks ago flaws of your braingrowth at workpersonal developmentstart your venture hanlon’s razor – how to stop assuming negative intentions 3 weeks ago about | contact | ask any question | write a guest blog | privacy policy interview series interviews of other self improvement bloggers top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd smart goal setting: the ultimate guide on how to do them right you spend 7.1 years of your life on your smartphone. what else? why people don’t quit a job that they hate? challenges the little better everyday improvement challenge the 7 day wake up early challenge test your productivity 30 day productivity challenge find where you waste time tips and tricks when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide productive club · copyright 2020 · all rights reserved menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step best articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator the website has been created to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity and help people begin their journey of chasing their dream goals. the target is to help 1 million people pursue their dream while having a full time job. will you be one among them?