barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up life 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest greyceli marin writer shares share tweet pin how many times have you wished for something that didn’t exist? specifically, while struggling with dog-induced problems? more specifically, this year alone? more times than you can remember, right? well, it’s time someone took notice and came up with solutions to these common dog people problems. get to work, engineers! problem #1: the embarrassment of your big dog jumping on strangers. solution: a harness that discourages jumping. there should be a harness that induces a “i kind of just feel like being chill right now,” vibe. or makes jumping uncomfortable. it should fit so comfortably that your dog wants to stay on all fours, even when he’s meeting a new person whose face apparently smells delicious. problem #2: dogs getting too close to the dinner table. solution: invisible dog repellent. a fragrance that can only be smelled by dogs, can be applied to any surface, is completely non-sticky, better than the ones that already exist and smells really, really terrible. this sounds like a surefire way to keep a dog from biting furniture or knocking over expensive china with its nose. it also sounds like magic. problem #3: dealing with the poop smell while tying up the bag. solution: a self-closing poop bag. i can’t always hold my breath for as long as it takes to tie a knot on a bag and not get any poop on my hands, all while at the end of the leash looped around my wrist is a strong dog with little patience. bags, please close on your own. problem #4: a dog too big for public transport. this prototype was conveniently released on april fools’ day. it doesn’t exist. solution: a backpack that actually fits dogs bigger than a textbook. there are tons of dog carriers out there, but they all come with limits. we want to carry our 50 pound boxer on our back because the train is faster than walking. problem #5: when your dog rejects a treat from a very nice stranger. solution: an instant treat-deliciousser. first of all, what kind of stranger carries around dog treats? probably you. second, what kind of dog rejects a treat? probably one that is trying to embarrass its owner. the solution is a liquid spray that makes any treat smell/taste like bacon, or whatever else your dog likes, rice and beans, indian food, to each his own. problem #6: when your dog takes a regenerating nap in the car on the long drive home from the beach that was meant to exhaust her, and you know once that nap is over she will be back at 100% energy. solution: a dog toy for cars. it’s not safe to actively keep your dog awake while driving. and you know that after those power naps they’ll only wake up more excited to do everything. balls and other toys don’t make for good car entertainment, so, like babies, dogs need something that’ll keep them busy while you speed home. problem #7: dog farts. solution: fart mints. they exist for mouth breath, so they should exist for butt breath. that is all. problem #8: potentially germy dogs in your bed. solution: a germ level detector. this would come in handy when your dog is being extra cuddly and you know she spent an hour at the dog park earlier frolicking with all her dog friends. with dog-friendly wet wipes in hand, the germ detector would let us know how much wiping down our dog needs before we can spoon in peace. problem #9: another poop problem. when the poop is un-baggable. solution: a poop vacuum. i totally understand why this sounds disgusting, but really, how do you pick up runny poop? do you just rip the entire patch of grass off? do you walk around with a packet of granular absorbent deodorant? maybe the vacuum could have a disposable nozzle, maybe the whole thing is disposable, i’m not the engineer. figure this out guys. featured image via timbuk2 comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up greyceli marin writer why do dogs give us side-eye (aka whale eye)? if dogs have no sense of time, how do they know when it's their birthday? does your dog know when you're naked? 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go