home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library food and drink latest articles property prevnext 9 of the easiest vegetables to grow in your garden leyla preston thu 25th oct 2018 0shares share tweet pin growing your own vegetables means that you can save a lot of money in the long run and they are organic, especially when you plant in season. but, let’s face it, some produce is a nightmare to grow, and some sprout from the moment you drop them into the soil. and the most straightforward crop does not require much space to grow and harvest. you can start small in containers and then transfer to a broader area, either in your garden or in an allotment. so, what are the easiest vegetables to grow in your garden? here are 9: table of contents tomato beans cucumbers lettuce carrots radishes potatoes garlic bell peppers tomato ok, tomatoes are a fruit. but, they are also very easy to grow in your back garden. tomato plants can come in two forms, determinate and indeterminate. determinate plants are compact, and they are great for those who have a small garden or only a small space at home. indeterminate varieties can grow and produce fruit until the cold kills them. you start by growing the seeds indoors in march on a well-lit windowsill, and then you transfer to the garden in the summer. tomato plants do well in a greenhouse or a polytunnel (you can find a domestic polytunnel from first tunnels), but they will grow in pots and baskets. beans beans are quite trouble-free to grow, and they mature early. sow the seeds when the soil starts to warm in the spring, about a week after the last frost date. plant the seeds about 1 inch deep and 4 inches apart. you then harvest the beans when the pods are young and tender. pick them often to promote growth. cucumbers cucumbers grow great in the garden during the summer, but you’ll need plenty of space for them to sprout. slicing cucumbers are great in salads and picking cucumbers are smaller and more mild flavoured. sow the seeds in the spring and plant about 1 inch deep and 6 – 8 inches apart. lettuce sow your salad leaves in the summer months, and you’ll be cutting fresh lettuce for your salads in less than a month! they will continue to keep growing too. if you don’t have the space, you can also grow lettuce in containers. carrots carrots are easy to grow in the ground, in deep soil and a raised bed. make sure there is full light, or they might not grow very big. you can grow mini ‘thumbelina’ carrots in containers if you don’t have space. radishes radishes take just 20 days to grow and reach full size, plus they’re very versatile in dishes. you plant the seeds directly into the garden in early spring or late summer, and they are sweetest when harvested young. potatoes potatoes are great to grow in deep soil and can be planted in late march. however, it’s preferable to plant in early april, so that by late june/july you’ll have new potatoes. you can grow them in patio pots if you don’t have space. buy seed potatoes from a garden centre rather than a grocery store as those are the ones that are free from chemicals. garlic garlic is super easy to grow, and you only need a small amount of preparation to ensure a great harvest. plant the garlic 6 to 8 weeks before your estimated hard frost date in the autumn. garlic bulbs grow individually from the cloves, so separate the cloves and then plant the garlic 6 inches apart and 4 inches deep. water them well. bell peppers like tomatoes, bell pepper plants are widely available and are really easy to grow. you can find starter bell pepper plants available in home improvement stores. peppers require full sun and nutritious soil to increase, so make sure you plant when the frost has passed. it may be a bit too cold to start planting your veg now, but by spring, you will have the tools and the know how you need to potentially have 9 new vegetables growing in your garden by the summer. and you don’t need masses of space if you don’t have it. start the process in pots/containers and then transfer your plants to the garden or a special allotment to watch them sprout. most produce will require the frost to have passed before planting, so start planning what you want to grow now so that you’re ready by spring to plant your veg and build your own supply at home. *collaborative feature post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:bell peppersgrow vegetableslettuceradishes about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok