start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising productivity advertising last updated on august 12, 2019 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. read full profile share pin it tweet share email what no one tells you when you first begin working towards your dreams is that, motivation is the key to everything! without motivation, there will be no fuel to the fire so to speak. you would have no drive to achieve everything you have ever wanted and there would be no reason to move forward. but what is motivation? if you’re looking to achieve your goals and you need some help, learn about how these 9 types of motivation will make it possible to reach your dreams: the two main categories of motivation different types of motivation fall into two main categories. we are going to review and discuss the major categories before we begin moving into more minor forms of motivation examples. 1. intrinsic motivation intrinsic motivation is a type of motivation in which an individual is being motivated by internal desires. for example, let’s say an individual named bob has set himself a goal to begin losing weight and becoming healthier. let’s also imagine that bob’s reason to pursue this path of fitness and wellness is to improve his health overall and feel more happier with his appearance. advertising since bob’s desire to change comes from within, his motivation is intrinsic. 2. extrinsic motivation extrinsic motivation, on the other hand, is a type of motivation in which an individual is being motivated by external desires. rather than being motivated by the need to look better and feel healthier, let’s say that bob was feeling pressure from his wife to slim down and improve his physique so that she would be more attracted to him. since this pressure comes from the outside, this is an example of extrinsic motivation. minor forms of motivation all types of motivation are going to fall into one of the two categories above. now that we’ve covered these motivational types and provided you with some examples, here are minor forms of motivation that are capable of making a big impact in your life! 3. reward-based motivation or incentive motivation incentive motivation or reward-based motivation is a type of motivation that is utilized when you or others know that they will be a reward once a certain goal is achieved. because there will be something to look forward to at the end of a task, people will often become more determined to see the task through so that they can receive whatever it is that has been promised. the better the reward, the stronger the motivation will be! advertising 4. fear-based motivation the word “fear” carries a heavy negative meaning but when it comes to motivation, this is not necessarily the case. anyone who is big on goal-setting and achievement knows that accountability plays a huge role in following through on goals. when you become accountable either to someone you care about or to the general public, you create a motivation for yourself that is rooted in the fear of failure. this fear helps you to carry out your vision so that you do not fail in front of those who are aware of your goal. fear-based motivation is extremely powerful as long as the fears is strong enough to prevent you from quitting. 5. achievement-based motivation titles, positions, and roles throughout jobs and other areas of our lives are very important to us. those who are constantly driven to acquire these positions and earn titles for themselves are typically dealing with achievement-based motivation. whereas those who use incentive motivation to focus on the rewards that come after a goal is met, those who use achievement-based motivation focus on reaching a goal for the sake of achievement. those who need a boost in their professional life will find achievement-based motivation extremely helpful. 6. power-based motivation those who find happiness in becoming more powerful or creating massive change will definitely be fueled by power-based motivation. power-based motivation is a type of motivation that energizes others to seek more control, typically through the use of positions in employment or organizations. advertising although it may seem to be a bad thing, power-based motivation is great for those who wish to change the world around them based on their personal vision. if you’re looking to make changes, power-based motivation may just be the way to go! 7. affiliation motivation people often say that it’s not what we do but who we know that dictates our success. for people driven by affiliation motivation, this is most certainly true. those who use affiliation motivation as a driving force to meet their goals thrive when they connect with others in higher power positions than them. they also thrive when those people compliment the work that they do as well as their achievements. affiliation motivation is a great force to help you achieve your social goals and move up in the world. 8. competence motivation have you always wanted to be better at anything you do? is one of your goals to learn how to do your job better or improve at your hobby? if so, you may be in need of some competence motivation. competence motivation is a type of motivation that helps others to push forward and become more competent in a certain area. advertising this type of motivation is especially helpful when it comes to learning new skills and figuring out ways around obstacles that one is faced with in different areas of life. 9. attitude motivation a problem with our attitude, perspectives, and beliefs is an issue that many of us face. it can become a problem on the way that we move throughout to the point that we begin to lose our happiness and miss out on our dreams. for those of you who are losing out on life because of your attitude, attitude motivation will help you to recover and move forward properly. attitude motivation is a kind of motivation that comes to those who intensely desire to change the way that they see the world around them and the way that they see themselves. goals associated with self-awareness and self-change will be met with attitude motivation. motivation is absolutely vital if you want to achieve your dreams. using the 9 types of motivation mentioned above, nothing will be able to stand in the way of you and your goals any longer! if you want to maximize your motivation and reach your dreams and goals, check out this guide: what motivates you and how to always stay motivated featured photo credit: unsplash via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next why is internal motivation so powerful (and how to find it) want to know what truly motivates you, and how to always stay motivated? how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques advertising advertising more by this author dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it how to figure out what motivates you at work 25 hard work quotes to motivate you to achieve more how to do what you love successfully how to deal with failure and pick yourself back up advertising trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques more by this author dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it how to figure out what motivates you at work 25 hard work quotes to motivate you to achieve more how to do what you love successfully how to deal with failure and pick yourself back up trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques read next how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated how to achieve a realistic work life balance how to stay motivated and reach your big goals in life advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.