worksheets all topics a-z grammar vocabulary speaking reading listening writing pronunciation virtual classroom articles posters books more worksheets by season 600 creative writing prompts warmers, fillers & ice-breakers coloring pages to print flashcards classroom management worksheets emergency worksheets revision worksheets resources we recommend busyteacher home » speaking free speaking worksheets learning to speak a new language is definitely a challenge. it’s very difficult for your students to do if they don’t practice on a regular basis. luckily, you need to look no further because busyteacher.org has the tools to help your students practice their speaking - and want to do it, too! let’s face it, students aren’t always jumping for joy at the opportunity to speak a language they aren’t 100 percent comfortable with. students can be hesitant to speak for a wide variety of reasons - fear of mistakes, peer pressure, or lack of self-confidence are some of the main factors. busyteacher.org has 936 speaking worksheets to help you plan effective speaking lessons, which will get your students to break through their shyness and start talking! these worksheets are great to use for your lessons because they come in many different styles and formats. some include flashcards, powerpoint presentations, and games that you can include in your lesson and help your students increase their speaking ability with interesting, educational, and fun activities. many of our speaking worksheets can be used in a variety of different ways. some can be used to inspire topics of discussion, enabling you to hold an open forum with your students, so they can express their ideas. some are grammar and vocabulary-ased, and can help your students learn new words while using grammar points. some are games that spark creativity and activity in the classroom - for example, some worksheets are for mingling activities, where students walk around and have to speak about something with others – for example, about their hobbies. other worksheets are for role play, and get students to take on the roles of an employer and an interviewee. some worksheets aren’t for every level - some are specifically for kids, some for teenagers, and some for adults. you can preview the worksheets you want to use before you download them. just click on the thumbnail to see if the worksheet is right for your class. you can also check the level the worksheet can be used for, too. you don’t have to register or subscribe to download any worksheet. all worksheets are free to download to use in your lessons, and all of them were created by esl teachers around the world, who use them in their classrooms every day. do you have a worksheet, powerpoint presentation, or game that you use in your classroom, and works like a charm every time? why not share the love? upload it to busyteacher.org by clicking “submit a worksheet” below, and let esl teachers everywhere use it in their lessons as well! along the way, you'll become a valuable busyteacher.org contributor! bookmark us today to use as your main online resource for worksheets you can use in your lessons. with 936 speaking worksheets to choose from, you’ll find whatever you need to make your lessons more enjoyable. check out the latest worksheets below and download one to use in your lesson today! read more......less filter by level new complete beginner (85) elementary (357) pre-intermediate (473) intermediate (476) upper-intermediate advanced (362) exam level (94) suitable for all levels (48) clear filters filter top articles in this category controversial discussion topics and how to teach them speak up: 6 fabulous games to get your students speaking how to teach conversational english: 9 best practices essential tips for conducting a class debate how to evaluate speaking top 10 role plays for your speaking class who am i?: 7 creative ways to introduce yourself to your class 7 best games for your next conversation class 7 great games for speaking practice 8 simple tips to encourage student participation during group discussions dramatically improve the way you teach: check out our writing resources creative writing prompts 1-50 creative writing prompts 51-100 creative writing prompts 101-150 creative writing prompts 151-200 creative writing prompts 201-250 creative writing prompts 251-300 creative writing prompts 301-350 creative writing prompts 351-400 creative writing prompts 401-450 creative writing prompts 451-500 creative writing prompts 501-550 creative writing prompts 551-600 make a word search: create awesome-looking custom word searches in seconds! create now › make a word scramble: instantly create custom word/sentence scrambles for your class! create now › make a double puzzle: generate double puzzles your students will love - hours of fun! create now › esl articles view our latest knowledgebase articles that will help you become a better english teacher. learn from professional teachers and put a bit of your own creativity into it! top 10 tongue twisters: true teacher's treasure? 10 february themed language building activities beyond martin luther king day: teaching argument through the writings of martin luther king wida and access testing: what you need to know how to be a better teacher: the secret recipe that every pro knows view all rate this category 4.3 out of 5, rated by 43 teachers explore speaking: mingling activities 408 role playing games 286 most popular talk for a minute easy hint for better speaking movie worksheet: 8 secrets of success (with ppt) make a fairy tale: boardgame fashion talk [speaking cards] the abc of happiness belongings madagascar ii worksheet proverbs michigan ecce speaking examination sort by: most recent | most viewed | rating wida and access testing: what you need to know erikagreen •teaching different ages, speaking, reading comprehension, listening, writing, esl essentials many teachers, especially those new to wida and/or esl teaching, are often overwhelmed and intimidated by the wida standards and access testing. in this article, we attempt to break down the mai ... 1 11,208 begelempre-intintadv social english conversations speaking cards jiřina •business grammar, everyday/social english, say/tell/speak/talk, social issues, role playing games the worksheet contains three types of excersices focusing on social english conversations. i.chain conversations - give each of your students a social topic to talk about and let pupils to prepa ... 1 22,741 pre-intint christmas chatterbox helen close •christmas, mingling activities, december this appeals to all ages, making a christmas chatterbox. we discuss greetings that are used at christmas both spoken and written. there are a number on the sheet you can choose from. students wri ... 1 13,153 all esl tv clip lesson | friends | topic: physical beauty robbie - englishteacher •questions and short answers, tv and video, mingling activities, movie + video + cartoons don't stress about lesson preparation! my 1 hour lessons use short english tv video clips and cover speaking, listening, vocabulary and comprehension. download the lesson for classroom use. all ... 1 20,603 pre-intintadv esl tv clip lesson | friends robbie - englishteacher •questions and short answers, tv and video, mingling activities, movie + video + cartoons don't stress about lesson preparation! my 1 hour lessons use short english tv video clips and cover speaking, listening, vocabulary and comprehension. download the lesson for cl ... 1 17,977 pre-intintadv put busyteacher in your inbox sign up for the busyteacher weekly and be the first to get direct links to our latest teaching articles, worksheets and lesson plans. goes out to 323,134 subscribers every wednesday. see last week's issue. yes, sign me up! thank you for joining our mailing list! holiday survey megh •past simple, teenagers, summer activities, mingling activities this is a holiday survey of 8 questions useful when you would like to engage all of the students in a group to report on their holidays. this is also a tool to ask and answer questions in past si ... 1 18,466 pre-intint the square circle - simple questions activity kay boone •speaking » role playing games p4c lesson offering topics for discussion.this can be used as a p4c lesson where the students are in a circle and choose a random sticky note off the floor. the sticky notes have prompts written o ... 1 40,258 begelem optimist/pessimist debate powerpoint tom leventhall •speaking » mingling activities a discussion activity designed to bring out the best (and worst!) in your students. place students in two lines facing each other and then project the presentation onto your iwb. students take t ... 1 32,874 pre-intintadv role plays for esl classes isaac bueso borràs •teenagers, adult learners, role playing games, warmers and fillers this sample worksheet contains six role playing situations from the book “esl role plays for english teachers: 40 great role plays for esl classes.” each role plays presents some usef ... 1 86,658 intadvexam questions about fall jeff genet •describing things, getting-to-know each other, say/tell/speak/talk, mingling activities a great tool and resource for conversation classes. this professionally illustrated powerpoint will prompt your students to ask fun, meaningful and topic related questions about the fall. perfect ... 1 18,994 all how to speak to be understood - a funny conversation activity sylwia •teenagers, adult learners, role playing games, intonation, rhythm and stress an amusing idea of how to practice intonation and communication. the students are asked to put the missing punctuation marks, make dialogues according to some specific clues, use their imagination ... 1 77,287 pre-intint dialogue vocabulary sentence starters and responses anastasiya tishchenko •speaking » role playing games these phrases are useful while organising pair work during the lessons of pre-intermediate students. they can be displayed on the poster in the classroom or printed out and your students will be a ... 1 59,653 pre-int printable worksheets, online quizzes, and more sponsor • helpteaching.com • become a sponsor helpteaching.com offers a variety of resources for educators - printable worksheets, free test maker, printable word game generator, and online quiz platform. emergency services role play cards si •past simple, present simple, adult learners, role playing games these role play cards are designed for elementary to pre-intermediate learners. there are 6 different scenarios split between the police, ambulance and fire service. students work in pairs to prep ... 5 75,594 elempre-int dialogue and role play exercise (two siblings fight over a car) dnisbet •speaking » role playing games this is a dialogue and role play exercise. two students fight over the car, but then, one of them goes out, and something unexpected happens. the dialogue sets the pattern of talking in english, a ... 6 106,786 pre-intintadv aviation sentences maiara •mingling activities, reading comprehension, flashcard sets in this exercise, the sentences are scrambled and the students must put the words in the correct order. you can use it as a simple exercise or you can turn it into a game with the winner being th ... 2 33,050 all icebreaker - let's get to know each other busyteacher contributor •getting-to-know each other, mingling activities this is a list of questions and examples of answers that you can use as an icebreaker with your new students, it can be also helpful to teach new vocabulary and expressions! suitable for elementar ... 7 105,808 begelempre-int relative clause-matching sentences activity a.e •defining/non-defining relative clauses, mingling activities whole class activity. cut,mix the sentences and give them to students.the students will stand-up and mingle trying to match the sentences in a meaningful way and also they will guess the correct r ... 8 37,224 elempre-int touchstone 2 jeopardy (units 1,2,3) karina •teenagers, mingling activities, recycling and revising, coursebook resources a power point presentation to review units 1,2 and 3 of the book touchstone 2, a jeopardy game to play. divide the class in 2 teams and start asking the questions. there are 5 categories: units 1, ... 7 28,858 int drama world talent marta •present simple, teenagers, motivation, role playing games this drama is about a television talent show called world talent, where contestants from around the world compete to see who is the most talented performer. each week the contestants perform in fr ... 3 41,581 pre-int helping people- charity events tajana •teenagers, adult learners, social issues, role playing games this worksheet contains four stories, students must choose one story and decide who of the four people they are going to help and then decide how they are going to help them to organize a charity ... 12 52,028 intadv expressions related to transport awder •present perfect, transport, mingling activities this worksheet contains some very useful expressions related to transport and present perfect practice. it is recommended for elementary to intermediate students. the students have a look at the s ... 10 43,650 elempre-intint i'm a star victoria •present simple, young learners, mingling activities students have to imaigne they are their favourite famous person and write about him/her. after completing the worksheet students have to introduce themselves as if they were that person. as a spea ... 7 35,304 elem beauty and physical appearance yasaman •appearance/body parts, mingling activities this ppt is designed for speaking classes. it includes different questions about beauty and physical appearance. it is designed for intermediate and upper levels. hope it helps! 18 55,791 intadv c1/c2 conversation - $1 could soon be worth €1 dale kirkwood •adult learners, business vocabulary, politics, mingling activities, reading comprehension a nice worksheet for advanced students. i couldn't ever find anything challenging enough for c1/c2 students who wanted to learn some complicated words and have a good read. i think this would make ... 13 37,152 advexam talking about the future ppt marjan van dijk •first conditional, second conditional, third conditional, mingling activities ice breaker to get students to talk about the conditionals. takes 20 to 30 minutes but can be stretched. skills: speaking, listening and argumentation. students are asked to present arguments ... 11 37,495 intadvexam got a great worksheet on speaking? tell us about it and become a busyteacher contributor! submit a worksheet previous page 1 2 3 4 5 ... 36 next page busyteacher.org copyright 2007-2020 © about submit a worksheet log in terms privacy contact us mobile version working. please wait...