home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership a 2020 special announcement michael and megan 00:18:21 download transcript as a high achiever, you love reaching goals! but added on top of a busy life, goal achievement can seem a bit overwhelming. the full focus planner puts it all into one handy system. yet you may want a little help getting it up and running. we’ve got you covered! we’ve got a brand-new program called compass: your full focus guide, and it’s exclusively for our full focus planner users. compass will give you the community support and motivation you need to fully implement the full focus system™ so you can hit every goal, every time. you’ll learn the one best way to set goals. and you’ll get coaching on goal achievement and the support of a community of high achievers just like you. inside this episode, you’ll hear more about these amazing features: live weekly preview session, so you can add the power of accountability to get your weekly preview done every week. live monthly masterclass sessions where you can learn new skills and get your questions answered from full focus coaches. live quarterly preview party, which is a live-stream event where we guide you through the quarterly preview with expert tips and giveaways. online portal to log, track, and share goals—so you’ll never lose visibility on your goals again. success community where you can engage with other users and spur each other on to achieve, supported by our full focus team. plus, additional exclusive events and resources for compass members only. once you’ve listened to this episode, here’s you next step. head over to compass and get started. this is the start of your best year ever! resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe compass posted on thursday, january 9, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed