home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads maya angelou recites her poem “phenomenal woman” the universe in verse 2018: full show the best of brain pickings 2018 labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks a brave and startling truth: astrophysicist janna levin reads maya angelou’s stunning humanist poem that flew to space, inspired by carl sagan “out of such chaos, of such contradiction / we learn that we are neither devils nor divines…” by maria popova the second annual universe in verse — a celebration of science through poetry, and a voice of resistance against the assault on nature — opened with the poem “a brave and startling truth” by maya angelou (april 4, 1928–may 28, 2014), which flew to space on the orion spacecraft and which angelou dedicated to “the hope for peace, which lies, sometimes hidden, in every heart.” i chose this poem to set the tone for the show in part because it is absolutely stunning and acutely relevant to our cultural moment, and in part because the first time i read it, it sparked in me a sudden insight into the often invisible ways in which science and poetry influence and inspire one another — into how the golden threads of thought and feeling stretch and cross-hatch across disciplines to weave what we call culture. angelou composed the poem for the 50th anniversary of the united nations in 1995. in 1994, carl sagan delivered a beautiful speech at cornell university, inspired by the voyager’s landmark photograph of earth seen for the very first time from the outer reaches of the solar system — a now-iconic image the spacecraft took on sagan’s spontaneous insistence before shutting off the cameras upon completion of the planned mission to photograph the outer planets. the “pale blue dot” photograph captured by the voyager 1 (nasa/jpl) in describing what the voyager captured in that grainy photograph of mostly empty space, sagan limned earth as a “pale blue dot.” that became the moniker of the photograph itself and the title of his bestselling book published later that year, in which he wrote that “everyone you love, everyone you know, everyone you ever heard of, every human being who ever was, lived out their lives” on this “mote of dust suspended in a sunbeam.” this poetic phrase imprinted itself on the popular imagination and permeated culture in the months following the book’s publication — the months during which angelou was composing her poem. like all great poets, she was extremely precise and deliberate about her word choice. mote is a rather peculiar word, particularly in this cosmic context, and i can’t help but think that by using the phrase “mote of matter” in the final stanzas, angelou was paying tribute to sagan and to the message of the voyager — a message about our place in the cosmic order not as something separate from and superior to nature, but as a tiny pixel-part of it, imbued with equal parts humility and responsibility. reading the poem at the universe in verse is astrophysicist janna levin — a recent performer of some beautiful poetry and a member, alongside sagan, of the tiny peer group of working scientists who write about science with uncommon poetic might. please enjoy: a brave and startling truth we, this people, on a small and lonely planet traveling through casual space past aloof stars, across the way of indifferent suns to a destination where all signs tell us it is possible and imperative that we learn a brave and startling truth and when we come to it to the day of peacemaking when we release our fingers from fists of hostility and allow the pure air to cool our palms when we come to it when the curtain falls on the minstrel show of hate and faces sooted with scorn are scrubbed clean when battlefields and coliseum no longer rake our unique and particular sons and daughters up with the bruised and bloody grass to lie in identical plots in foreign soil when the rapacious storming of the churches the screaming racket in the temples have ceased when the pennants are waving gaily when the banners of the world tremble stoutly in the good, clean breeze when we come to it when we let the rifles fall from our shoulders and children dress their dolls in flags of truce when land mines of death have been removed and the aged can walk into evenings of peace when religious ritual is not perfumed by the incense of burning flesh and childhood dreams are not kicked awake by nightmares of abuse when we come to it then we will confess that not the pyramids with their stones set in mysterious perfection nor the gardens of babylon hanging as eternal beauty in our collective memory not the grand canyon kindled into delicious color by western sunsets nor the danube, flowing its blue soul into europe not the sacred peak of mount fuji stretching to the rising sun neither father amazon nor mother mississippi who, without favor, nurture all creatures in the depths and on the shores these are not the only wonders of the world when we come to it we, this people, on this minuscule and kithless globe who reach daily for the bomb, the blade and the dagger yet who petition in the dark for tokens of peace we, this people on this mote of matter in whose mouths abide cankerous words which challenge our very existence yet out of those same mouths come songs of such exquisite sweetness that the heart falters in its labor and the body is quieted into awe we, this people, on this small and drifting planet whose hands can strike with such abandon that in a twinkling, life is sapped from the living yet those same hands can touch with such healing, irresistible tenderness that the haughty neck is happy to bow and the proud back is glad to bend out of such chaos, of such contradiction we learn that we are neither devils nor divines when we come to it we, this people, on this wayward, floating body created on this earth, of this earth have the power to fashion for this earth a climate where every man and every woman can live freely without sanctimonious piety without crippling fear when we come to it we must confess that we are the possible we are the miraculous, the true wonder of this world that is when, and only when we come to it. “a brave and startling truth” was published in a commemorative booklet in 1995 and was later included in maya angelou: the complete poetry (public library). more highlights from the second annual universe in verse will be released at here over the coming weeks and months. for some high points of the inaugural event, see levin’s exquisite reading of adrienne rich’s tribute to women in astronomy and u.s. poet laureate tracy k. smith’s ode to the hubble space telescope, then savor the complete show for a two-hour poetic serenade to science. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published may 9, 2018 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2018/05/09/a-brave-and-startling-truth-maya-angelou/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under astronomybookscarl saganculturejanna levinmaya angeloupoetrypoliticssciencethe universe in verse view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.