style design food travel relationships motherhood shop menu style design food travel relationships motherhood shop style a trick for air drying your hair by joanna goddard reagan baker is a hair genius. today, she’s sharing her proven method for air drying your hair, with lots of volume and zero frizz. the best part? it all boils down to one easy trick… read more > march 24, 2020 11:34am facebook tweet pin email comments 144 relationships how are you today? by joanna goddard i had a few different post ideas for this afternoon, but, honestly, what i really want to know is, how are you? tell me: how are you faring? what are you eating? what are you watching/reading/doing? what are the views from your windows? what is making you laugh? what is making you cry? i’ve been getting emails from people around the world in different situations. one that has stayed with me: “i’m 30 and live alone in a tiny studio in nyc,” wrote a reader. “i desperately need a hug and physical human contact and don’t know what to do to handle that. maybe i’ll get a weighted blanket? i’d love some solicitation for loving vibes!” we’re hanging in there. we made zucchini muffins, watched the talented mr. ripley and have been playing lots of rounds of memory (toby crushes it every time). we’ve also had major kid meltdowns and moments of what-is-even-happening, followed by times, usually in the evenings after the boys are in bed, where we feel more buoyed. these days are intense. facetiming with friends and family helps so much. my psychologist friend lina (remember her from this post?) said: “when talking to your parents over facetime or having a google hangout with your friends, you’re going to get that emotional regulation that comes from seeing someone’s face. when you you lock eyes with someone you love, you feel calmer. facial cues are so important and extremely healing.” so, consider facetime over a regular phone call, if you’re in the mood. i’ve found them so comforting. lina added: “it’s only going to get easier. we’re incredibly resilient as human beings. people return to their happiness status quo. we’ll adjust and get into a rhythm and flow.” here’s to that. sending love. how are you? what are you doing these days? what’s making you feel good? what’s hard? tell us everything. (side note: a bunch of readers said the book is even better than the movie!) p.s. a 175-square-foot apartment and this made me laugh. (photo by stefany alves.) note: if you buy something through our links, we may earn an affiliate commission, at no cost to you. we recommend only products we genuinely like. thank you so much. march 23, 2020 4:50pm facebook tweet pin email comments 823 motherhood trying out slow parenting by joanna goddard cup of jo has been running for 13 years (!) so we’ve decided that every week, we’ll be highlighting one of the most popular posts from the past. here’s one of our favorites, originally published on may 26, 2015. although we can’t go outside, the idea of sloooooowing way down felt timely… after work and on the weekends, i often take our boys on neighborhood adventures — to the playground, to the carousel, to the bookstore, to the deli to get popsicles. but even though these outings are fun, i’ve found that… read more > march 23, 2020 11:35am facebook tweet pin email comments 257 design have a delicious weekend. by joanna goddard how are you doing at home? we made toby’s cookies yesterday and it was a bolstering activity. also, i’m thrilled that you’re excited about our cup of jo book club! can’t wait until april 14th. stay safe, and here are a few fun links from around the web… “i refuse to run a coronavirus home school.” (new york times) found! the best way to cook spaghetti. one of our favorite games has a new family-friendly version. they’re offering 15% off for our readers with code cupofjo15. i’m loving jenny’s new project/pantry/purpose series. paul rudd is ageless! a lovely shirt for work (aka video conference calls). the first lines of 10 classic novels rewritten for social distancing. “mrs. dalloway said she would buy the flowers herself. then she remembered the florist was closed. and the party was cancelled.” a helpful list of substitutions for your fridge. what a beautiful instagram caption. wise words. plus, two reader comments: says lee ann on running feels good (i swear): “i’m a long-time long-distance runner, mostly on trails. i would suggest for a more meditative experience to skip the music — listen to breathing, your heartbeat and, if you can the sounds of nature.” says katharine on what if your child has a favorite parent: “the other night at bedtime, my three-year-old actually told me, ‘mama, i think daddy is my favorite person ever.’ and after my initial moment of (internal) sadness, i said something like, ‘daddy is awesome, isn’t he? i love that guy, too!’ and my kiddo got this huge smile on his face before saying, ‘mama, we both love daddy! we can be the same person!’ it was such an amazing reminder that daddy may be his favorite person, but my kid still thinks of me as an extension of himself. and i’ll enjoy that for as long as it lasts!” note: if you buy something through our links, we may earn an affiliate commission, at no cost to you. we recommend only products we genuinely like. thank you so much. (photo by bobbi lin/food52.) march 20, 2020 1:00pm facebook tweet pin email comments 83 design looking forward by jessica olien by the wonderful jessica olien. p.s. personal pep talks and ways to say i love you. march 20, 2020 10:22am facebook tweet pin email comments 37 design what are you in the mood to watch? by joanna goddard while stuck inside these days, what are you in the mood to watch? i’ve been craving only one thing… read more > march 19, 2020 5:03pm facebook tweet pin email comments 344 design how to run (it feels good, i swear) by caroline donofrio last weekend, i was supposed to run the nyc half marathon. but the universe had other plans… read more > march 19, 2020 12:02pm facebook tweet pin email comments 170 load more about / contact joanna goddard brighten up your inbox let’s hang out contact me this month most popular a cup of jo book club! who’s in? a week of outfits: joyce lee what if your child has a favorite parent? my mom’s brilliant advice… how to raise a gracious kid what beauty products are worth a splurge? my beauty uniform: deb perelman 7 new york city hall weddings a restaurant surprise i’m still thinking of two decades later i can’t stop looking at julie blackmon’s photography hi from your childless friend load more food best recipes motherhood motherhood mondays food quick dinners disclosure in order to grow our small business, cup of jo earns revenue in a few different ways. we publish several sponsored posts each month, which are always labeled at the top. we also sometimes earn an affiliate commission on the sales of products we link to. we feature only items we genuinely love and want to share, and this is an arrangement between the retailer and cup of jo (readers never pay more for products). these are the ways we support cup of jo, and allow us to run the site and engage with this community we truly love. thank you for reading! editors' picks cozy sheets fleece sweatpants grow and glow candle soft sweater fascinating memoir you might also like style 5 secrets of french style food chickeny white beans and romaine design have a lovely weekend. travel our trip to maine relationships take our climate challenge: cut back on meat and dairy motherhood the best gifts about a cup of jo welcome! a cup of jo is a daily lifestyle site for women. we cover everything from fashion to culture to parenthood, and we strive to be authentic. as olive kitteridge said, "there's no such thing as a simple life." thank you for reading. read more style food design travel relationships motherhood about contact faq let's hang out