editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. editors' blog / analysis & opinion latest 40 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 41 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 44 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime a dark day by josh marshall | march 26, 2020 6:23 p.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. i think we can say with little hesitation that for the last three weeks every day has been worse than the last. today looks especially bad. the headline is that we now have the most covid-19 cases in the world. that is of course a symbolic milestone. underneath that headline are very bad numbers. the us added almost twenty-thousand new cases today (19,732). that is very close to double the biggest day so far. a bunch of that is accelerated testing. there were 113,056 new tests taken in the last day in the united states. the highest until now was 65,840 on monday. but the most harrowing number was a big, big jump today in hospitalizations. up today to 6844 from 3805 the day before. here’s the chart of total hospitalizations by day. again, this isn’t new cases each day but totals. you can see the scope of the jump. president trump’s press conference today was filled with all the same lies and bizarre claims. but he looked like someone who’d had the wind knocked out of him. i suspect they’d reviewed these numbers before they spoke. across the country we’re seeing comparable acceleration, albeit days or a weeks behind new york. we’re in the storm. key coronavirus crisis links josh marshall’s twitter list of trusted experts (epidemiologists, researchers, clinicians, journalists, government agencies) providing reliable real-time information on the covid-19 crisis. johns hopkins global covid-19 survey (most up to date numbers globally and for countries around the world). covid-19 tracking project (updated data on testing and infections in the u.s.). worldometers.info (extensive source of information and data visualizations on covid-19 crisis — discussion of data here). josh marshall (@joshtpm) is editor and publisher of tpm. have a tip? send it here! more in edblog 4 hours ago where things stand: will we have a grandstander? 6 hours ago national leaders need to take more personal precautions 18 hours ago obscene advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy