home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ freelancing non-fiction by kayla matthews every day as a busy freelance writer is different. some days i’m swamped with projects while others i’m busy tracking down editors or networking with potential clients. this break from the structured nine-to-five office routine is what attracts others to the freelance life. if you’re interested in learning more about a career as a freelance writer, here is what my typical day might look like. network on- and offline networking offers the opportunity to meet people, build connections and potentially land new jobs. as many people will tell you, it’s often about who you know rather than what you know. as a freelancer, i rely on networking to meet potential clients and even land new gigs. i already have a website set up with my portfolio, something anyone can access. i also have profiles on sites like linkedin, facebook and twitter, where i’m part of industry groups and interact with others. local networking is alive as well. there are a couple of local writer groups in my area that i like to attend. now that i’m a regular member, they’re familiar with my work and what i can offer. negotiate contracts when i was new to freelancing, i was so excited to be offered a contract that i often wouldn’t get into the nitty-gritty of what was being said. now that i have more experience, i’m here to warn you — don’t undersell yourself! your time is a valuable resource. don’t waste it on gigs that won’t get you anywhere. it can be hard to tell whether a job is good or bad, especially when you lack experience. when offered a new contract, i always ask myself the following questions: is the client someone i want to work with? how many hours will the project entail? is there a set rate and agreement? is the client willing to sign a contract? in some cases, i’ve had to provide my own contract. there are plenty of resources on how to write a freelance contract online. prioritize time being an established freelancer, it’s not uncommon to receive pitches directly from an editor. in fact, my inbox is unusually packed with emails, something that can seem overwhelming at times. unfortunately, if i read every email and accepted every pitch, i would never get anything done. to make sure i’m able to finish my work and hit my deadlines, it’s important i prioritize my time. usually, this means keeping a to-list of all i need to do for the day or week, then focusing on the items that need to be completed the soonest. write, write, write this is what being a freelance writer is all about — writing. much of my time each day is dedicating to sitting down and actually writing a project. everyone’s writing process is different. i know many writers who like to create detailed outlines before touching the keyboard. personally, i like to start with research, which gives me inspiration. it doesn’t matter what the process is as long as the work is finished on deadline. email editors i often email back and forth with editors every single day. sometimes i may have as many as 50 lines of communication going at once. clear and consistent communication with your editor or client is essential for ensuring they’re satisfied with the work you complete. in some cases, editors might send your work back and ask for revisions. this is something that happens to me and every other freelance writer. it doesn’t necessarily mean your work was bad. in most cases, the editor simply has a different vision for what they want. track my pay everybody loves payday — i know i do. it’s tangible evidence of all the hours and effort you put into your work. but getting paid as a freelance writer is a little different than working for an employer. i have to rely on each blog post for my monthly income, so maintaining a regular posting schedule is important. to collect my payments, i send out monthly invoices and keep track of all my payments in a spreadsheet. i’m also responsible for paying my own taxes, something i have to do quarterly. there’s also the chance i won’t get paid. while it doesn’t happen often, there are bad clients out there. if this should ever happen to you, the best course of action is to consult with a local attorney. gather testimonials testimonials are a great way to show potential editors and clients that you’re experienced and reliable. each time i complete a gig and the client is satisfied, i ask them for a testimonial. this is just a quick written review of their experience. since i like to publish testimonials on my website and portfolio, i also make sure to ask permission to use their name, business affiliation and — ideally — a photo. push for success part of being a good freelance writer means continually trying to better yourself. my biggest recommendation is to keep writing. the more you practice, whether it be product descriptions, funny emails or short stories, the more you’ll improve. some freelancers recommend taking online courses since they can be done from the comfort of your own home. is freelance writing for you? i can never be sure what tomorrow will bring as a freelance writer. but that uncertainty and excitement is all part of why i love my job. if you want to break away from the rigid routine of working in an office, consider if a career in freelance writing is for you. tweet pin share related posts how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo by kristel staci 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer by vartika kashyap about the author kayla matthews kayla is a tech writer and blogger whose work has appeared on websites such as venturebeat, makeuseof, vice’s motherboard, gear diary, inc.com, the huffington post, cloudtweaks, and others. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here visualize, organize, and write anything faster and easier than ever before! writer's blocks is simple, powerful writing software that makes your writing faster, easier and smarter. grab the fully-functional free trial of writer's blocks here make real money from your blogging – today, not in three year’s time the blogger's guides - complete four pack grab your guides here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >