australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video entertainment 03/27/2020 11:35 edt | updated 52 minutes ago a fluffy 'game of thrones' star has died sad news is coming for direwolf fans. by bill bradley, huffpost us and now his watch has ended. odin, a northern inuit dog famous for playing bran stark’s direwolf summer on “game of thrones,” died thursday after a battle with cancer. “our family are at immense heartbreak to announce that odin passed away early this morning,” the got direwolves tour company wrote in a long instagram post. “it’s difficult to put into words how this has impacted us as a family for odin lead a life like no other dog.” “to everyone that was lucky enough to meet him and put a smile on your face, please remember that moment,” the post said. “it’s an incredible piece of luck to have a pet you love so well become world famous and touch so many people’s hearts.” view this post on instagram a post shared by got direwolves (@got_direwolves) on mar 26, 2020 at 4:26am pdt owner william mulhall opened up about odin’s fight with cancer earlier this month and posted a video to crowdfund for the dog’s medical treatment. mulhall was under a financial strain because the coronavirus outbreak had caused mass cancellations of direwolf tour company events, he explained in the video. view this post on instagram a post shared by got direwolves (@got_direwolves) on mar 18, 2020 at 12:14pm pdt mulhall reportedly bought odin and thor, another northerin inuit who played robb stark’s grey wind, with his savings when he was 18. just weeks later, both dogs had booked roles on “game of thrones.” mulhall reflected on odin’s accomplishments in a statement to huffpost, saying “his legacy speaks for itself.” odin and thor’s fame helped raise money and awareness for organizations such as macmillan cancer support in the u.k. and northern breed dog charities, mulhall said. he estimated that odin met around 500,000 people through tours and events over the years. he also described odin meeting “game of thrones” author george r.r. martin as a “full circle moment.” “odin was an extremely intelligent dog. obviously, his training for ‘game of thrones’ took less time than usual showed that. he was patient, happy and enjoyed people and hikes up mountains or along beaches. life with odin was an adventure. he is loved dearly by our family and we are overwhelmed with sadness of his passing,” mulhall said. “from the beginning they were the dogs we always dreamed of and went to making other people’s dreams a reality. he touched the hearts of many people globally. one thing is for certain, our lives wouldn’t be the same without odin and thor.” view this post on instagram a post shared by got direwolves (@got_direwolves) on aug 23, 2019 at 12:51pm pdt on a positive note, huffpost learned in january that some other animals from the show, including the cat that played ser pounce, were still alive. but for now, it’s goodbye to a sweet summer child. related... sophie turner goes off after evangeline lilly's coronavirus comments 'game of thrones' cameo in 'westworld' answers what happened to drogon george r.r. martin confirms he's safe and working on 'game of thrones' suggest a correction bill bradley entertainment editor, huffpost more: game of thrones dogs trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.