start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way a little better everyday challenge - the kaizen way today's challenge: list 10 things you are grateful for what is this little better everyday challenge? human beings have a tendency to want what they do not have. every day you look at what do you not have and fail to appreciate the things you do. no matter what your situation is, you have enough number of things to be happy about, but most people choose not to. today, you must write down 10 things you are grateful for. you do not have to look for major things. even simple aspects like having enough to eat every day is something you can be grateful for. being grateful helps your psychological and physical health. read more if you think your friend needs to take up this challenge, do let him/her know. inviting a friend will make the challenge more exciting. two is company, three is a crowd and four is a party. be a part of the challenge community on faceboook what is the little better everyday challenge about? how does the challenge work? the challenge is based on the kaizen philosophy, which originated in japan. it targets small and easy improvements every day which add up to produce great results by continuous improvement. all you have to do is complete one challenge a day mentioned on this page. you have heard about fun challenges like kiki and the ice bucket challenge. it's time you took up a self-improvement challenge this time. i just started today, should i begin from today's challenge or all the way from day 1? if you heard about the challenge today, start from today's challenge. the sequence does not really matter. these are small improvements which help you improve day by day. making sure you work towards one improvement a day is more important than following a sequence. what about the previous challenges i have not completed? do not worry about the past challenges. start from today. every day you will have a new challenge which will help you improve over time. do not sweat about the past and focus on future improvements. you will still have a ton of scope for improvement. how many improvements should i do every day? the challenge expects you to target one improvement a day. if you find any of the challenges beneficial to your growth, relationships or happiness, you can even follow it as a daily habit. how do i participate in the challenge? you just have to bookmark this page. every day, a new challenge will show up on this same page. invite a friend to make the challenge more exciting. two is company, three is a crowd and four is a party. you can receive reminders on the challenge by adding your email below. the most simple way to participate in the challenge is to join the facebook group and receive the daily challenge on your feed everyday. what if i am busy to complete the challenge some day? missing a couple of challenges here and there will not impact your results much because you are in for the long haul. just do not make it a habit to skip challenges when you do not feel like doing them. the challenges exist to help you push yourself out of your comfort zone. does the challenge have any success stories? the same technique led to the success of companies like toyota, google, general electric, microsoft. bruce lee used the same techniques for his mastery. the british cycling team dominating the world by applying simple improvements every day. almost every person who has tried the method has reached high levels of success. previous challenges 27 mar - say no to tv - view full challenge 26 mar - do one thing that you have procrastinated - view full challenge 25 mar - no blaming - view full challenge 24 mar - set goals for the month - view full challenge 23 mar - no gossip or talking behind somebody's back - view full challenge 22 mar - be more mindful and observant - view full challenge 21 mar - do not stick to your opinion, keep an open mind - view full challenge participate in the little better everyday challenge your name your email 257shares from a weak to confident communicator – 30 day challenge my goal is to help people 1 million people pursue their dreams. share the article and help me with this mission. you don't need a reward to join the productive club, do you? plain and simple. did you find what you just read useful? great, then get more of such tips to sky rocket your productivity. join the productive club. your name your email 257shares top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator learn productivity hacks if you would like to boost your productivity and sky-rocket your efficiency, subsribe to our updates topics flaws of your brain growth at work improve focus overcome fear personal development phase 1 starting off with productivity phase 2 gaining momentum with routine phase 3 transform into a productive super human procrastination productivity sleep start your venture time management about | contact | ask any question | write a guest blog | privacy policy interview series interviews of other self improvement bloggers top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd smart goal setting: the ultimate guide on how to do them right you spend 7.1 years of your life on your smartphone. what else? why people don’t quit a job that they hate? challenges the little better everyday improvement challenge the 7 day wake up early challenge test your productivity 30 day productivity challenge find where you waste time tips and tricks when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide productive club · copyright 2020 · all rights reserved menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step best articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator the website has been created to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity and help people begin their journey of chasing their dream goals. the target is to help 1 million people pursue their dream while having a full time job. will you be one among them?