hecklerspray grown up gossip & internet villainy a mediocre rundown of the 2019 oscars february 25th, 2019 by krysta fitzpatrick well, the oscars happened last night, and for the first time in 21 years i didn’t bother to watch. pretty ironic given how many of these movies i ended up seeing and loving, but that’s neither here nor there. i did watch the video of lady gaga and bradley cooper musically fucking on stage while his baby mama cheered on in the audience, but otherwise i saw nothing, hence this review being mediocre. on to the five major awards. mahershala ali picked up his second best supporting actor oscar for green book, which i saw last week and loved. he 100% deserved this award because he was a next level delight in that movie. i’ve been watching true detective every week and didn’t once think of his td character while watching green book, so that’s saying something. regina king won best supprting actress for if beale street could talk, which i didn’t see, but i like regina king so let’s assume she deserved this. rami malik unsurprisingly won best actor for bohemian rhapsody. i heard that movie was mediocre, but he was really good in it. yep, didn’t see it, so i don’t really care, but my mom is like super into him winning so i’m glad that diane enjoyed this win so much. olivia coleman won best actress for the favourite and that was legit one of the best movies i’ve seen ever and she was a fucking legend in it. her winning for me was everything because she was just so. fucking. good. finally, green book won best picture, and that’s fine. the movie was good, but movies like green book get made all the time, whereas movies like roma and the favourite do not. the favourite was literally delicious and innovative and really should have won best picture, but i’m over being mad at the oscars for not agreeing with me. anyway…that was the oscars. i’ll probably be back tomorrow with more news on jordyn woods. comments john says june 22, 2019 at 4:04 pm br was awesome and i think freddie would have been proud of the story and the performance of mr. malik!! (did he do sing-a-long in some of the concert and studio scenes? too good to be lipped)..as soon as it came out on dvd i was there at redbox the midnight the machine allowed the rental and then i bought it straight away after 5 viewings in one nite!!!.. hope this actor does more movies as such and if anymore of his performances match bh then he’s in for many academy awards!! leave a comment cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * notify me of new posts by email. a mediocre rundown of the 2019 oscars so the jodyn and tristan thing is probably true tristan thompson allegedly cheats on khloe kardashian with jordyn woods lil xan is having a kid and i can't deal with that katy perry and orlando bloom are engaged blogroll rumorfix hecklerspray.com copyright © 2019 · · terms · privacy · dmca · contact