guide contact us our projects semrush berush guide contact us our projects semrush berush a powerful seo toolbox for your browser check any webpage for a huge selection of seo parameters on the fly, with the free seoquake browser extension. conduct on-page seo audit in a flash examine internal and external links compare domains and urls in real time export all data into a file install seoquake — it's free install seoquake — it's free install seoquake — it's free install seoquake — it's free also available for also available for also available for also available for read seoquake guide read all about and discover how seoquake can work for you. user guide check out our guide to get an overall look at seoquake's features and functions and learn how to use them. configure your needs take full advantage of all the data our powerful tool provides. troubleshoot having a problem? use our troubleshooting page to help you solve your issues. learn more high speed, low drag perform a thorough seo analysis of any webpage with nothing but your browser at hand. all it takes is one click and one second. no cumbersome interface involved — adjust seoquake to only display what you need when you need it. real-time seo audit check your webpage’s seo health with a real-time diagnosis feature that helps you identify and fix various optimization issues that occur with modern search engines. link examiner get all the details behind both the internal and external links on any webpage, including urls, anchor texts and link types. seo showdown compare multiple domains and urls for a variety of seo parameters on the go and export your results into a dynamic and fully adjustable report. seoquake: 3,000,000 downloads thousands of people are using seoquake every day. try it for yourself. try it for yourself. try it for yourself. try it for yourself. 1 2 3 4 5 6 features seobar get an instant seo summary for any webpage you’re browsing with the interactive seobar that can be adjusted to your needs or switched off completely. seo dashboard not a big fan of extra bars in your browser? meet the seo dashboard! one click will open a compact, yet informative lightbox with a brief seo overview, including page, domain and backlinks details. serp overlay get a thorough analysis of serps and export the results in csv format. vast data semrush, alexa, google rank, yahoo index — you name it! switch between a great choice of reliable data sources and types, including social media elements, like tweets and facebook likes. keyword analysis get a detailed and structured report on all keywords found on the page. visualize data in the keywords cloud and narrow down your search using powerful filters. print & export export your seoquake data with style! with seoquake, it’s easy to save data from any of the reports into a .csv file, or better yet — print it out. watch seoquake videos watch quick tips videos to get familiar with seoquake extension. watch video: what is seoquake what is seoquake? analyzing keyword density with seoquake create and enable parameters quick seo audit with diagnosis tool using serp overlay with seoquake minimize risk of being banned join 300,000+ users enjoying seoquake every day get seoquake get seoquake get seoquake get seoquake contact us have any questions? we’d love to hear from you send message thank you! we will answer you as soon as possible. some problem occurred, try sending us email. for chrome for firefox for opera for edge for iphone and ipad guide privacy policy terms of use semrush semrush affiliate program copyright 2006 - 2020 semrush inc | mail@seoquaketeam.comfacebooktwitter install seoquake — it's free install seoquake — it's free install seoquake — it's free install seoquake — it's free guide contact us