skip to main | skip to sidebar a roker artist thursday, 20 may 2010 work, not art tomorrow is international diversity day, and where i work people are selling cakes to raise money for one of the charities we support; paralympicsgb. so i've spent an hour making iddy-biddy flags to stick in the all the internationally diverse cakes. posted by yellow at 17:55 17 comments: wednesday, 19 may 2010 destroy that precious thing i took a small hog brush and some black thinned with turps, and made these corrections. i'm ready for a cup of coffee now. i think i've nailed him. the trick now is not to loose him again in the re-painting. an hour of frustration, then i squinted and obliterated all detail with blocks of tone. i'm finding that using a brush for each shade keeps me making decisions. i need to stop 'drawing' and keep on 'painting' if that makes sense? posted by yellow at 09:41 1 comment: labels: family, oil paint, portrait, techniques saturday, 15 may 2010 my son it's not finished yet but it's on the right track. i'm vary happy with the placement of the head on the canvas, i think it's much more powerful than the earlier central position. posted by yellow at 16:06 2 comments: labels: family, oil paint friday, 14 may 2010 a weekend of art hubby is taking the kids to see their grandparents this weekend, so i have a couple of days to indulge in mark making and mess making. watch this space, as they say. posted by yellow at 08:02 2 comments: wednesday, 12 may 2010 ...and more funny faces posted by yellow at 07:36 no comments: tuesday, 11 may 2010 funny faces my face muscles ached after drawing these. posted by yellow at 07:27 no comments: labels: pen, self portrait monday, 10 may 2010 hot car i was early for the afternoon school run, then ended up being late. posted by yellow at 16:13 1 comment: labels: colour studies, self portrait wednesday, 5 may 2010 making a start here's the under drawing for a painting of my son, tj. i'm happy with the proportions, but i want to re-position him much lower on the canvas so there's more space into which he's looking. posted by yellow at 07:29 no comments: labels: drawing, family tuesday, 4 may 2010 trees and music yesterday was a great day. the kids climbed trees in roker park while i drew. it was cold in the shade, but warmer in the sun. then we headed down to the smugglers pub where they have an all day/all night music fest every bank holiday monday. i discovered tony bengtsson, a raw, powerful vocalist and a thrasher of guitars, so i bought his cd and asked him to start blogging as, from his lyrics, he's a man with a lot to say. then, i heard harriott danby-platt, a 17 year old with the voice of a traumatised angel. she was just amazing. then hubby cooked a curry with leftover beef, and we watched red dwarf. what a perfect day. posted by yellow at 07:33 no comments: saturday, 1 may 2010 tony before moving onto the next portrait exercise described in june's artists & illustrators, i decided to have another go at the tonal painting in step 1. there's a couple of reasons - i want to cement what it's teaching me, and secondly i'm scared of the second step. simple. posted by yellow at 17:13 no comments: labels: family, oil paint older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe in a reader about me yellow the more i draw and paint, the more i find beauty in the most mundane things which we often take for granted. view my complete profile readers currently reading...... the neverending story by michael ende doctor faustus by christopher marlowe the sea, the sea by iris murdoch poems by robert w service the raw shark texts by steven hall artist inspirations alberto giacometti david hockney edward weston egon schiele john sloan l s lowry lucian freud maggie hambling vincent van gogh blog archive ▼ 2010 (28) ▼ may (10) work, not art destroy that precious thing my son a weekend of art ...and more funny faces funny faces hot car making a start trees and music tony ► april (18) ► 2009 (49) ► december (5) ► november (7) ► october (3) ► september (7) ► august (2) ► july (15) ► may (1) ► april (1) ► march (5) ► january (3) ► 2008 (140) ► november (8) ► october (18) ► september (13) ► august (2) ► july (9) ► june (11) ► may (14) ► april (11) ► march (29) ► february (5) ► january (20) ► 2007 (109) ► december (10) ► november (22) ► october (1) ► september (13) ► august (5) ► july (6) ► june (11) ► may (15) ► april (5) ► march (16) ► february (5) other great sites 1000 paintings - lisa mcshane has a goal ann lewis - artist and printmaker chris bolmeier - an inspiration to me ed terpening - great plein air eudaemonia for all - an amazing writer finders keepers art project - a philanthropic dream gesa paint & pastel - pushing the limits in this medium, exciting work ghislaine howard - powerful charcoal & oils jafabrit's art - she's the craziest artist on the block jana's journal and sketchbook - another addict to skecthing daily jared shear - art and concepts laurielines - energetic painter & drawer lesley todd - bird ahoy painter's blog michalopoulos - inspired perspectives of new orleans painting prints and stuff - vivien blackburn - and so much more pastel - casey klahn's preferred medium see be draw - drawings and advice struggling to paint - the journey of chuck rose the colourist - casey klahn - reflections on colour and the role of the artist the red shoes - sarah wimperis' paintings labels abstract acrylics artists banksy banksy sunderland bigger birds blogs books bosch brush pens buildings canvas chalk pastel cup charcoal clay collage collecting art college colour colour studies composition concertena sketch books critics dame dorothy street dance drawing durer durham edward weston environment eutopia family feet female nude figures flowers friends galleries garden graphite hand drawings house ideas ink inspiration jou journal landscape left hand life drawings lines lino print linocut london male nude mixed media moleskine exchange music negative spaces new orleans north dock not painting nude nude study nudes oil paint oil painting oil pastels painting palette park bench pen pencils penshaw photograph photographs photoshop pish posh portrait river wear roker artist roker beach roker bowling green roker park roofs schiele self portrait sketch book sketch of dad sketching skies sky sleeping soft pastels stained glass still life studio sunderland tagged techniques theatre therory torso trees tunstall hills van gogh watercolour art shops winsor & newton lawrence online cass stores in london detais, newcastle art store awards