skip to main content sections about axios sign up driving the news: the coronavirus pandemic arrow close sections politics & policy donald trump 2020 election policymaking immigration technology big tech misinformation data privacy surveillance automation and ai economy & business media stock market jobs transportation retail trade war health coronavirus health care costs opioids affordable care act medicare for all vaping public health world china north korea iran russia israel energy & environment climate change alternative energy oil companies electric vehicles science space extreme weather sports nfl, nba, mlb & nhl ncaa sports betting 2020 olympics axios gets you smarter, faster with news & information that matters.our mission statement arrow about about axios advertise with us careers events axios on hbo privacy and terms online tracking choices contact us subscribe axios newsletters axios app (beta) pro rata podcast close menu driving the news: the coronavirus pandemic arrow sections politics & policy donald trump 2020 election policymaking immigration technology big tech misinformation data privacy surveillance automation and ai economy & business media stock market jobs transportation retail trade war health coronavirus health care costs opioids affordable care act medicare for all vaping public health world china north korea iran russia israel energy & environment climate change alternative energy oil companies electric vehicles science space extreme weather sports nfl, nba, mlb & nhl ncaa sports betting 2020 olympics about about axios advertise with us careers events axios on hbo privacy and terms online tracking choices contact us subscribe axios newsletters axios app (beta) pro rata podcast 14 hours ago - health the next coronavirus hotspots caitlin owens, andrew witherspoon data: the center for systems science and engineering at johns hopkins, census bureau; note: the metros used are omb's combined statistical areas, which include surrounding communities; chart: andrew witherspoon/axios a second wave of cities, including boston, detroit, new orleans and philadelphia, are seeing increases in confirmed coronavirus cases, and could become epicenters for the outbreak if they're not able to bring those cases under control soon. why it matters: whether these cities can prevent their outbreaks from spiraling out of control will be a major test for the u.s.' ability to contain the virus. new orleans in particular is nearing a crisis, with hospitals already becoming overwhelmed and supplies of medical safety gear running low, per the nyt. orleans parish has experienced the highest number of deaths per capita of any county in the u.s. what we're watching: other cities may have even higher numbers of cases, but just haven't tested enough people to know it. between the lines: the u.s. has finite medical resources, including personnel as well as medical supplies like ventilators. the more hotspots we have at one time, the higher the demand for these resources. the bottom line: state or city borders will not contain the virus. it moved from a market in wuhan, china to all 5o u.s. states within three months. subscribe to mike allen's axios am to follow our coronavirus coverage each morning from your inbox. go deeper orion rummler trump appoints peter navarro to enforce defense production act president trump briefs reporters with the white house coronavirus task force on march 26. photo: drew angerer/getty images white house trade adviser peter navarro was appointed as the trump administration's point man to enforce the defense production act on friday, after president trump authorized the use of the dpa to direct general motors to build ventilators for patients affected by the novel coronavirus. why it matters: america's hospitals, doctors and nurses have urged trump since last week to use the dpa to ramp up the country's domestic production of medical supplies crucial for health care workers, saying "there will not be enough medical supplies" without it. go deeper arrowupdated 33 mins ago - health axios coronavirus dashboard illustration: sarah grillo/axios global: total confirmed cases as of 5 p.m. et: 590,594 — total deaths: 26,943 — total recoveries: 130,865. u.s.: leads the world in cases. total confirmed cases as of 6 p.m. et: 100,000 — total deaths: 1,478 — total recoveries: 862. federal government latest: president trump signed the $2 trillion coronavirus stimulus bill to provide businesses and u.s. workers some economic relief. state updates: nearly 92% of cities do not have adequate medical supplies — new york is trying to nearly triple its hospital capacity in less than a month. world updates: italy reported 969 coronavirus deaths on friday, the country's deadliest day. business latest: president trump authorized the use of the defense production act to direct general motors to prioritize building ventilators for those affected by covid-19. 🏰 1 disney thing: both disney world and disneyland theme parks in the u.s. are closed until further notice. what should i do? answers about the virus from axios experts — what to know about social distancing. other resources: cdc on how to avoid the virus, what to do if you get it. subscribe to mike allen's axios am to follow our coronavirus coverage each morning from your inbox. keep reading arrowupdated 48 mins ago - politics & policy marisa fernandez north carolina becomes latest state to issue coronavirus stay-at-home order data: axios reporting; map: danielle alberti/axios north carolina gov. roy cooper issued a statewide stay-at-home order on friday to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, with exemptions for certain essential workers and businesses. the order goes into effect monday at 5 p.m. the big picture: this is the latest state to announce policies to enforce social distancing. more than 1.5 billion people worldwide were asked to stay home monday. go deeper arrowupdated 2 hours ago - health axios gets you smarter, faster with news & information that matters.copyright axios media, 2020 about about axios advertise with us careers events axios on hbo privacy and terms online tracking choices contact us subscribe axios newsletters axios app (beta) pro rata podcast