home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads seneca on gratitude and what it means to be a generous human being the shortness of life: seneca on busyness and the art of living wide rather than living long big thinkers on the only things worth worrying about labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety “there are more things … likely to frighten us than there are to crush us; we suffer more often in imagination than in reality.” by maria popova “the truth is, we know so little about life, we don’t really know what the good news is and what the bad news is,” kurt vonnegut observed in discussing hamlet during his influential lecture on the shapes of stories. “the whole process of nature is an integrated process of immense complexity, and it’s really impossible to tell whether anything that happens in it is good or bad,” alan watts wrote a generation earlier in his sobering case for learning not to think in terms of gain or loss. and yet most of us spend swaths of our days worrying about the prospect of events we judge to be negative, potential losses driven by what we perceive to be “bad news.” in the 1930s, one pastor itemized anxiety into five categories of worries, four of which imaginary and the fifth, “worries that have a real foundation,” occupying “possibly 8% of the total.” a twenty-four-hour news cycle that preys on this human propensity has undeniably aggravated the problem and swelled the 8% to appear as 98%, but at the heart of this warping of reality is an ancient tendency of mind so hard-wired into our psyche that it exists independently of external events. the great first-century roman philosopher seneca examined it, and its only real antidote, with uncommon insight in his correspondence with his friend lucilius junior, later published as letters from a stoic (public library) — the timeless trove of wisdom that gave us seneca on true and false friendship and the mental discipline of overcoming fear. seneca in his thirteenth letter, titled “on groundless fears,” seneca writes: there are more things … likely to frighten us than there are to crush us; we suffer more often in imagination than in reality. with an eye to the self-defeating and wearying human habit of bracing ourselves for imaginary disaster, seneca counsels his young friend: what i advise you to do is, not to be unhappy before the crisis comes; since it may be that the dangers before which you paled as if they were threatening you, will never come upon you; they certainly have not yet come. accordingly, some things torment us more than they ought; some torment us before they ought; and some torment us when they ought not to torment us at all. we are in the habit of exaggerating, or imagining, or anticipating, sorrow. illustration by maría sanoja from 100 days of overthinking seneca then offers a critical assessment of reasonable and unreasonable worries, using elegant rhetoric to illuminate the foolishness of squandering our mental and emotional energies on the latter class, which comprises the vast majority of our anxieties: it is likely that some troubles will befall us; but it is not a present fact. how often has the unexpected happened! how often has the expected never come to pass! and even though it is ordained to be, what does it avail to run out to meet your suffering? you will suffer soon enough, when it arrives; so look forward meanwhile to better things. what shall you gain by doing this? time. there will be many happenings meanwhile which will serve to postpone, or end, or pass on to another person, the trials which are near or even in your very presence. a fire has opened the way to flight. men have been let down softly by a catastrophe. sometimes the sword has been checked even at the victim’s throat. men have survived their own executioners. even bad fortune is fickle. perhaps it will come, perhaps not; in the meantime it is not. so look forward to better things. art by catherine lepange from thin slices of anxiety: observations and advice to ease a worried mind sixteen centuries before descartes examined the vital relationship between fear and hope, seneca considers its role in mitigating our anxiety: the mind at times fashions for itself false shapes of evil when there are no signs that point to any evil; it twists into the worst construction some word of doubtful meaning; or it fancies some personal grudge to be more serious than it really is, considering not how angry the enemy is, but to what lengths he may go if he is angry. but life is not worth living, and there is no limit to our sorrows, if we indulge our fears to the greatest possible extent; in this matter, let prudence help you, and contemn with a resolute spirit even when it is in plain sight. if you cannot do this, counter one weakness with another, and temper your fear with hope. there is nothing so certain among these objects of fear that it is not more certain still that things we dread sink into nothing and that things we hope for mock us. accordingly, weigh carefully your hopes as well as your fears, and whenever all the elements are in doubt, decide in your own favour; believe what you prefer. and if fear wins a majority of the votes, incline in the other direction anyhow, and cease to harass your soul, reflecting continually that most mortals, even when no troubles are actually at hand or are certainly to be expected in the future, become excited and disquieted. but the greatest peril of misplaced worry, seneca cautions, is that in keeping us constantly tensed against an imagined catastrophe, it prevents us from fully living. he ends the letter with a quote from epicurus illustrating this sobering point: the fool, with all his other faults, has this also, he is always getting ready to live. complement this particular portion of seneca’s wholly indispensable letters from a stoic with alan watts on the antidote to the age of anxiety, italo calvino on how to lower your “worryability,” and claudia hammond on what the psychology of suicide prevention teaches us about controlling our everyday worries, then revisit seneca on making the most of life’s shortness and the key to resilience when loss does strike. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published august 27, 2017 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2017/08/27/seneca-anxiety/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under booksculturelettersphilosophypsychologysenecastoicism view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.