home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library front page holidays latest articles travel prevnext a toddler guide to tenerife leyla preston fri 17th aug 2018 0shares share tweet pin table of contents tips to make the most of your holiday to the family-friendly canary island adventures for active toddlers food for younger palates where to stay in tenerife free resource library! tips to make the most of your holiday to the family-friendly canary island ask any parents of toddlers and chances are they’ll tell you that – apart from sleep – the one thing they look forward to most is a holiday. but then the time finally arrives and they realise that this is a notoriously tricky age where vacations aren’t always the definition of relaxing: early starts, lunchtime sleep battles, fussy eating – and dare we mention the terrible two tantrums? if you’ve ever returned from a holiday with your young kids feeling anything but recharged then it’s time to consider a destination such as tenerife for your next break. if the promise of direct flights from the uk, no time difference and average winter temperatures of 22°c is not enough, accommodation choices such as clc world resorts & hotels are designed to make travelling with kids as relaxing as possible. plus, you’ll find there’s plenty to tire toddlers out on the largest of the canary islands, both on and off your resort! adventures for active toddlers slam park: this thai-themed water park is not only tenerife’s most popular attraction but ‘the best water park in the world,’ according to tripadvisor. while many of the rides have height restrictions, your toddler will love splashing around in the shallow waters of siam beach and visiting sea lion park. sun loungers, life jackets and umbrellas are included in the admission price. loro park: cuddly otters, friendly dolphins and cheeky meerkats are three of the toddler-friendly animals at loro park, another of tenerife’s top attractions. along with fish, birds and reptiles, top billing here goes to the jaguars, lions and gorillas. mount teide cable car: at the interior of the island, the volcanic mount teide is the highest peak in spain, a massive 3,718 metres above sea level. an hour’s drive away from clc’s resorts in tenerife, toddlers aged 2 and above will love the cable car that transports you to the summit. the journey takes eight minutes and the doors open onto spellbinding views across to neighbouring islands. operators recommend arriving early – for both the views and the lack of queues; good tips if you have a toddler who gets bored easily in tow. submarine safari: strictly reserved for ages 2+, this hour-long journey departs and returns to san miguel marina and will submerge you in an underwater world of colour as you get up close to a dazzling array of fish and other marine life – all enjoyed from the comfort of a bright red and yellow submarine. food for younger palates apart from the deliciously juicy fresh fruits such as bananas, papayas and mangoes that are a staple of the local diet, the cuisine of tenerife is made for toddlers. local ingredients range from the exciting and adventurous – young imaginations will love the promise of parrot fish or rock cold for dinner – to the most beloved dish across the whole of the island, papas arrugadas, or wrinkled potatoes, served with mojo or dipping sauce. where to stay in tenerife of all tenerife’s holiday resorts, clc sunningdale village is designed with ultimate family relaxation in mind. you’ll immediately relax in your surroundings: spacious and well-equipped apartments, a dedicated kids’ pool and great menus, including a fun one of the kids, ensure you’re able to really recharge and unwind without having to leave the resort. yet clc world tenerife’s close proximity to los cristianos and playa de las americas means the island’s most popular and vibrant attractions are never far away. *collaborative feature post written by chrissie mcclatchie* free resource library! subscribe now and receive your exclusive password to access a whole library of extra content! checklists, printables, guides - it's all yours when you subscribe! success! now check your email to confirm your subscription and get your top secret password to access your free resource library! there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive the free email course. i want those emails! we won't send you spam. unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:familyfamily holidaysholiday resorts in tenerifespaintenerifetoddlers related posts how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... top money saving tips for parents my top ten tips for travelling with tiri... benefits of using public transport over ... the other side of abortion top seasonal family friendly holidays wh... how to involve the kids in your engageme... 21 travel hacks you need to know this su... getting past distrust: pregnancy after a... a dad’s top 5 tips on how to survi... 16 weeks pregnant – the morning si... the truth about pregnancy and childbirth what it feels like to be overdue… tips from parents on how to raise multip... tips for taking a toddler to the zoo becoming a dad 5 reasons why you should holiday in the ... feeling guilty as a parent? don’t! insights on parenting an adopted teen a-z relaxation techniques during early l... should you stay or should you go: 4 marr... 34 weeks pregnant – antenatal clas... how will your family watch wimbledon thi... top 6 things to do with the kids this ha... 5 exciting days in for rainy days with t... was that it? feeling a kick… maybe... 5 minute interview with daniel alexander... the best tablet tech for the family how i’ve changed in thirty years, 1983 &... tips for travelling with children about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok