/ submit / search / store / menu blog : show me the posts forums : but read the community guidelines shop : a directory of wonderful products about us : editors, contributors and staff contact us : get satisfaction advertise here : thank you for not blocking ours privacy policy : what we do with data you generate terms of service : what you agree to follow us twitter / facebook / rss gareth branwyn / 3:05 pm fri politico asked 34 big thinkers to predict how the coronapocalypse will permanently change our world politico asked 34 "macro thinkers" to share some of their thoughts on what the world will look like after we crawl from the wreckage of this thing. some are hopeful, optimistic. some, not so much. definitely good food for thought. here are a few excerpts. mark lawrence schrad is an associate professor of political science and author of the forthcoming smashing the liquor machine: a global history of prohibition. a new kind of patriotism when all is said and done, perhaps we will recognize their sacrifice as true patriotism, saluting our doctors and nurses, genuflecting and saying, “thank you for your service,” as we now do for military veterans. we will give them guaranteed health benefits and corporate discounts, and build statues and have holidays for this new class of people who sacrifice their health and their lives for ours. perhaps, too, we will finally start to understand patriotism more as cultivating the health and life of your community, rather than blowing up someone else’s community. maybe the de-militarization of american patriotism and love of community will be one of the benefits to come out of this whole awful mess. eric klinenberg is professor of sociology and director of the institute for public knowledge at new york university. he is the author, most recently, of palaces for the people: how social infrastructure can help fight inequality, polarization, and the decline of civic life. less individualism the coronavirus pandemic marks the end of our romance with market society and hyper-individualism. we could turn toward authoritarianism. read the rest share / tweet / comments a whole new world / coronapocalypse / covid-19 / hope david pescovitz / 7:16 am wed, mar 13, 2019 a delightful snail takes a magic carpet ride full of wonder and joy i can open your eyes take you wonder by wonder over sideways and under on a magic carpet ride credits: hiskm and dahlek88 (r/aquariums, thanks dustin hostetler!) read the rest share / tweet / 26 comments a whole new world / aquariums / magic / snails / wonder read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support