menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login abandonment issues & experiencing love? home→forums→relationships→abandonment issues & experiencing love? new reply this topic contains 1 reply, has 2 voices, and was last updated by anita 20 hours, 6 minutes ago. viewing 2 posts - 1 through 2 (of 2 total) author posts march 26, 2020 at 3:38 pm #345574 a participant i will try to make this as short as i can. i won’t go into my childhood, but long story short, many things happened that have caused me to have developed abandonment issues that have plagued me for most of my life. i’m 22 now and though i’m aware of why i act the way i do in relationships, i can’t seem to stop myself from acting irrationally. recently i have been talking to a guy who is in every way good. he’s talented, smart, loved by everyone (very popular, which i am not) and attractive. i can easily talk to him for hours on end (which we do all the time), and he actually identifies when i’m trying to hide that i’m upset and tries to resolve it. there’s more, but i don’t want to go on forever. he’s a wonderful person, and the fact that he likes me is beyond me, and sometimes i almost feel guilty that he likes me because i know my past and he doesn’t (at least all of it). lately i have been feeling like this is too good to be true, and i have been very scared of having this fall apart like my other relationships (they weren’t nearly as good, but they still hurt me). i feel like i’m in fight or flight mode every time he takes a few hours to reply to me. i understand that he is busy because we’re both in university and have tons of work, but everything inside of me screams “delete his number and block him” “when he does reply, don’t reply back, ever again!” it’s so irrational, and yet i can’t fight the temptation to do it. even if i don’t block his number i just shut off my phone so i’m not anxiously waiting for him to text me. i have a real problem with pulling away in relationships the moment i feel even slightly uncomfortable. i feel like i can’t function when this person takes a long time to reply, and i seriously cannot continue living like this. it’s taking a toll on my mental and physical health. i just want to be secure for once. i understand that he is most likely just busy, and isn’t “losing feelings for me with every passing minute” like my mind keeps telling me. if anyone has advice on what i can do, please let me know. it’s horrible to be aware of your own toxic coping mechanisms and have no clue how to change them. march 26, 2020 at 6:03 pm #345648 anita participant dear a: when a young mammal is abandoned by its mother, it is a death sentence for the young: no food or shelter or protection from predators. a human child, when abandoned by her mother, or when perceiving she may be abandoned, feels the same fear that other young mammals feel, a fear that fits a death sentence. fast forward, you feel attached to this young man and the fear awakens, even though you are an adult and him leaving you is in no way a death sentence. the fear though is the same. “it’s horrible to be aware of your own toxic coping mechanisms and have no clue how to change them”- first thing to do is to lessen that original fear. with less fear you will think more clearly and be in more control of your behavior. best place to do that is in quality psychotherapy. outside of therapy, there are different practices that lessen fear: guided meditations available online, mindfulness exercises available online, in books and magazines, yoga, tai-chi, aerobic exercise, having a daily routine and more. but more insight into your original fear, and processing of those early emotions are necessary for the lessening of the fear, in addition to the practices above. there is more, but i will stop here and wait for your thoughts about what i wrote so far. anita author posts viewing 2 posts - 1 through 2 (of 2 total) you must be logged in to reply to this topic. please log in or register. disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top