got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos about perez hilton featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... about perez hilton cubano and miami native perez hilton is the internet’s most notorious gossip columnist. he currently resides in hollywood with his precious mini-goldendoodle, teddy hilton. the la times calls perez, “like us weekly, the star, the enquirer and life & style all rolled into one sweet yet snarky, sagacious yet salacious gay man.” perez was named the #1 web celeb for 2007, 2008, and 2009 by forbes magazine and has recently been tapped as one of the 15 most influential hispanics in the us by people in espanol and named 2009 hispanic of the year by hispanic magazine. since launching in 2004, perezhilton.com — originally named pagesixsixsix.com– has become one of the leading go-to sites for celebrity news garnering over 300 million hits a month. he has been featured in/on the l.a. times, the view, the wall street journal, mtv’s trl, larry king, cnn, e!, time, paper magazine, life, spin, cbs news, business week, much music, la magazine, the advocate, dateline, howard stern, us weekly, intouch weekly, ny times, la times, billboard and many more. “p nasty” has created an empire which includes his own record label, perezious music, introducing acts such as slimmy, travis garland and semi precious weapons to the world. he also launched his mobile website at m.perezhilton.com, a new fashion website cocoperez.com and two best sellers in 2009, perez hilton’s red carpet suicide and perez hilton’s true bloggywood stories. feel free to shoot over an email, some juicy gossip or any feedback to: [email protected] hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy