events resource center magazine contact us march 27, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: marketing 101 small business growth coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise about small business trends our mission small business success … delivered daily our story small business trends is an award-winning hub of more than two million entrepreneurs, business owners, influencers and experts. the site features over 20,000 pages of content. we review tech products, cover small business news, and interview movers and shakers. we spotlight other small businesses and startups. our core focus is practical content with targeted tips, trends and answers to your toughest questions. through our team of professional editors, journalists and vetted experts, we publish new content daily. we also produce feature publications like our digital magazine, ebooks and checklists. our sister site bizsugar is an additional resource. small business trends was founded in 2003 by entrepreneur anita campbell. at first she simply wanted a way to publish newsletter articles online. the site grew into a hyper-engaged community of small business owners who learn from each other. an “overnight” success rome wasn’t built in a day — and do we know it! in october 2018, we celebrated our 15-year anniversary. see our crunchbase profile. we are proud to remain entrepreneur-owned and independent. see our “overnight” success story timeline: what people say about small business trends “as a small business marketing expert and ceo of constant contact, i relied on small business trends as my go-to resource for what’s happening in the marketplace. they cut through the noise and spin to keep small businesses informed.” gail goodman, former ceo, constant contact team our company headquarters is in beautiful naples, florida. our loyal team operates “virtually” from across the united states and around the world. at small business trends we are all about helping you achieve success through information. anita campbell, ceo and publisher anita is founder and ceo of small business trends llc. she bootstrapped the company from a nascent idea. previously she was a general counsel and ceo of a technology subsidiary of bell & howell. she founded this site over 15 years ago. staci wood, chief operations officer staci is chief operations officer of small business trends. she is responsible for day-to-day operational excellence and user experience. she brings over 14 years of experience with the company. on the weekends, you’ll find her tucked away in her favorite spot in the forest. leland mcfarland, chief technology officer leland is chief technology officer and head of ad operations. he is responsible for all technical aspects of the small business trends websites, as well as managing advertising inventory. he brings over 10 years of experience in web design, php and javascript programming, and server management. shawn hessinger, executive editor shawn is executive editor of small business trends. he coordinates editorial operations and leads the overall content strategy and development for the site. shawn has over 20 years of editorial experience, including serving as managing editor for a network of nine weekly newspapers. joshua sophy, assistant editor joshua is assistant editor. as a journalist with 17 years of experience in traditional and online media, he is responsible for day-to-day operations of the editorial department. joshua also manages our team of journalists. he produces our digital magazine. tamar weinberg, chief strategy officer tamar is chief strategy officer of small business trends. she focuses on business development and advertising sales. amanda stillwagon, marketing manager amanda is marketing manager for small business trends. she is a specialist in email marketing, newsletter creation and social media marketing. amanda has over 12 years of experience with the company. she is immersed in the world of facebook, twitter, pinterest, linkedin and instagram. matt mansfield, tech editor and seo specialist matt brings 18+ years of experience in successfully driving targeted online traffic using content and search engine optimization (seo). on the editorial side, he specializes in researching and breaking down complex topics so they can be understood by a variety of audiences. more logo announcements advertise contact see our ethics statement. distinctions and memberships small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit