skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about welcome to skint dad share tweet pin skint dad is the destination online where every penny counts. whether you’re looking to cut back on your food bill, save for a rainy day, or find inventive ways to up your income; skint dad has the answer. fed up of being skint and struggling to make ends meet, in 2013 husband and wife team ricky & naomi willis launched skint dad to help other people in the same boat. skint dad has grown into one of the largest money blogs in the uk with over 300,000+ readers each month and was crowned financial blog of year at the prestigious headline money awards. what we believe being financially better off is something we can all achieve and should strive for throughout our lives. although the topic of personal finance should be taken seriously, this doesn’t mean it needs to be complicated. skint dad believes that financial education is important but, more than that, you just need inspiration, access to resources, and the motivation to be financially better off. skint dad’s core values every decision we make is built around these core values. we will always aim to be: trustworthy and approachable helpful and responsive informative and engaging jargon-free and light-hearted community focused and inclusive by following these core values we know that our site provides relevant and useful guides, tips and resources to make sure everyone has access to fun and original ways to save and make more money. the team ricky willis: founder & editor ricky willis is the founder and editor of skint dad. he is a money making enthusiast, father, and husband to naomi, and is always looking for unique ways to earn a little extra. he loves american gangster films and believes that he was actually al capone in a previous life. for a chat, get his attention on twitter @skintdad_ricky. naomi willis: founder & managing editor naomi willis is the managing editor of the skint dad. she has particular interest in saving money on everyday living and family life. she is a pure geek when it comes to excel and can often be found drinking coffee and balancing budgets on a friday night – rock star life! naomi has a certificate in awareness of mental health problems and is a youth mental first aid champion. tweet her @skintdad_naomi. contact us want to advertise on skint dad? send details to [email protected] need a quote or want to book us for an interview? let us know what you’re after – [email protected] have a question about something we wrote? we love feedback, email your thoughts to [email protected] want to write for us? read this then contact [email protected] contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about