products plan, collaborate, and publish thumb-stopping content learn more respond to social conversations from a shared team inbox learn more analyze social media performance and create gorgeous reports learn more pricing resources about customers try buffer for businesslog in products publish reply analyze pricing resources about customerstry buffer for business log in about us we’re a fully distributed team of 85 people living and working in 15 countries around the world. and we’re working to build the best products to help our customers build their brands and grow their businesses on social media. we’ve always aimed to do things a little differently at buffer. since the early days, we’ve had a focus on building one of the most unique and fulfilling workplaces by rethinking a lot of traditional practices. a commitment to supporting our team and our customers has helped buffer grow from humble beginnings to now serving more than 73,000 customers. our passion for making meaningful connections flows through everything we do. we care about building a quality product, trusted relationships with our customers, and a sense of community that connects our customers and team with one another. to learn more about our approach to business and work, feel free to hop on over to our open blog. read the open blog 85 teammates 15 countries 73,000 customers a few of the amazing brands who trust buffer our values we want to build a different type of company that’s focused not only on the bottom line, but also the happiness of our customers and team, and our personal growth along the journey. here are the values that collectively guide our decisions and actions: 01 default to transparency as individuals, we view transparency as a lifestyle of authenticity and honesty. as a team, we view transparency as an effective way to work remotely and establish a culture of trust. as a company, we view transparency as a tool to help others. we share early in the decision process to avoid “big revelations.” we strive to make all communication clear and avoid making assumptions. 02 cultivate positivity we strive to approach things in a positive way while realizing all emotions are valid. we avoid non-constructive criticism of team members or customers. we assume the best of others because we may lack full context. we believe that constructive, honest feedback is an opportunity for growth. we push through any artificial harmony to work towards a better environment, product or concept. 03 show gratitude we regularly stop and demonstrate gratitude for our circumstances. we are thankful for our customers and approach customer conversations with the knowledge that it’s a privilege to serve them. we practice humility, operate as no-ego doers and do not attach our personal selves to ideas. we are grateful for the work teammates do to push the company forward. we display gratitude for the platforms, tools and open source code and communities that make our company possible and view it as our duty to give back. 04 practice reflection we believe the act of introspection is where true learning and life-changing adjustments originate. we approach discussions intentionally and think through all angles. we listen first and then listen more: seeking first to understand, then to be understood. we step back from the day-to-day and reflect on overall themes that will make an impact. we take the approach that everything is a hypothesis and we could be wrong. 05 improve consistently we are biased toward action and have a higher expectation of ourselves and of our product than others have of us. we aim to be fully engaged in our work and activities, and fully disconnected when we’re not working. we choose to be where we are the happiest and most productive. we desire to be better tomorrow than today, knowing that improvement can be found in small changes. we strive to exemplify a growth mindset and believe that any skill or talent can be learned through deliberate practice. 06 act beyond yourself we consider the bigger picture, knowing our work goes beyond ourselves. we are not afraid of the less-traveled path if it holds true to our values and betters the world. we seek balance by taking into account multiple perspectives and listening deeply. we advocate for diverse backgrounds and perspectives to make our team and products stronger. we work to create an inclusive environment to build a better company and set a positive example for the world. transparency we try our best to live up to our value of "default to transparency." here's an overview of a few of the things we've made transparent at buffer. salaries all our salaries, and salary formula, are public. learn more diversity we've open sourced our diversity & inclusion data. learn more open source all our code, free for anyone to use. learn more product roadmap everything we're researching & building. learn more team we’re committed to building a diverse team and a work environment that’s inclusive of people of all backgrounds. get to know the wonderful team who’s building our product, supporting our customers, and creating educational content. get to know us better join 73,000+ growing businesses that use buffer to build their brandsget started now no credit card required 14-day free trial cancel anytime copyright ©2020 buffer|privacy|terms|security products publish reply analyze pricing company about us customers community request a feature nonprofits careers press support help center webinars tweet @ us status ios app android app reply ios app free resources browser extension resource center content library stories creator podcast transparency culture blog salary calculator transparent salaries revenue dashboard diversity dashboard product roadmap hi there, we use cookies to offer you a better browsing experience and to analyze site traffic. by continuing to use our website, you consent to the use of these cookies. learn more. got it