subscribe to get a free ecookbook with our top 25 recipes. income resources food blogger pro pinch of yum about recipes shop about me hey there! i’m lindsay. and pinch of yum is my little corner of the internet! i’m the voice, author, and creator behind pinch of yum. what started as a casual hobby for nights and weekends while i was working as a fourth grade teacher has now grown into a full-blown business (!!) that reaches millions of people with fun recipes each month. i live in saint paul, mn with my husband bjork and our dog sage. my favorite things in life are a big plate of pad thai, sunny days, and going to the dog park. in this space, i am always sharing fresh, flavorful, (mostly) healthy recipes that i love to make and eat in my real, actual, every day life. if i wouldn’t eat it in real life, i won’t put in on the blog. my goal is to inspire you with food that is both approachable and exciting, whether you’re cooking for yourself, your family, your roommates, or your friends. i want you to be so excited about these recipes that you eagerly await 5pm when you can go home from work and start cooking. on a related note, i absolutely love seeing the food that you’re making. it will make my day if you tag @pinchofyum in your instagram photos and stories! we love to shout out our favorites on fridays with our reader awards on instagram stories. going deeper along with all the recipes, i also use the blog to share bits and pieces of my life outside the kitchen – from photos of my favorite trips, to reflections on grief and loss, to life as a dog mom. travel: from living in the philippines, to the ultimate european adventure, to tacos in austin! oh my gosh, i love to travel. check it all out here. afton: on new year’s day 2017, we said goodbye to our only baby boy, afton. he was one day old. i have shared a lot about that journey on the blog and have found so many meaningful connections with readers through his story. you can learn more about our experience here. motherhood: in september 2018, we welcomed our baby girl solvi afton into the world. i’ve written a lot about her and my experiences with motherhood, which you can take a look at here. home stuff: we bought our house in 2013 and have done multiple projects on it – from redecorating, to a full-blown kitchen remodel, to creating a master suite in our upstairs attic. take a peek here. sage: sage is a queen and she joined our family in 2015 and she is the absolute best. she’s also the official poy mascot. you can waste your day away looking at pictures of her here. i also share about my life on my person instagram @lindsaymostrom. i’d love if you followed me there too! food blogger pro as we grew the blog into a source of income, my tech-loving husband bjork decided to detail our journey publicly as somewhat of an “experiment.” and as a result, lots of people starting asking us how they could do the same thing. in 2013, bjork and i built a community called food blogger pro as a place to teach people everything we’ve learned over the last 7-8 years in this industry. okay, so can i brag about this since it’s really bjork’s thing, not mine? you guys, food blogger pro is amazing. it contains over 350 easy-to-understand videos, an active community forum, a panel of industry experts, live monthly events where you can submit your blogging questions, and discounts on tools and services made specifically for food bloggers. if you’re interested in learning more or becoming a food blogger pro member, click here. you can also check out the food blogger pro podcast for quick, actionable blogging tips from some of the best in the biz. our team we have an entire team of geniuses behind us at pinch of yum who are experts in a little bit of everything – from customer service, to social media, to videography, to assisting with recipe shoots. they are everything. ♡ meet them here! hey! nice to meet you! i'm lindsay: former 4th grade teacher, now full time blogger. my husband bjork and i live in minnesota. favorite things include my camera, lake days, and dark chocolate. learn more. popular posts dinner baked mozzarella chicken rolls quick and easy the best detox crockpot lentil soup breakfast cinnamon sugar apple cake quick and easy date night mushroom fettuccine blogging tips delivered straight to your inbox blogger resources top posts 1 avoiding blog burnout2 blogging as a couple3 building a blog while traveling4 how to start a food blog5 creating an income6 tools bloggers shouldn't live without7 photography tips start, grow, and monetize your food blog. join today. how’s this for awesome? get all of my best recipes sent to you for free! sign up to receive a free ecookbook with my top 25 most popular recipes. pinch of yum about our team sponsored content media mentions contact food & recipes blog shop recipe index sugar free january freezer meals 101 for bloggers income reports blogging resources photography resources tasty food photography sign up for email updates and get a free ecookbook with our top 25 recipes. our other brands pinch of yum copyright © 2020 an elite cafemedia food publisher back to top • privacy policy x pinch of yum a food blog with simple, tasty, and (mostly) healthy recipes. follow on pinterest