features books authors about us penguin shop features find your next read... articles articles recommendations features extracts quizzes view all articles children's articles children's articles recommendations extracts games & activities quizzes view all children's articles most viewed most viewed 100 must-read classic books raynor winn's books for spring authors on how to read more the books that cheer us up what i'm reading: cash carraway sign up for our newsletter events podcasts apps books categories fiction fiction action & adventure classics crime, thrillers & mysteries general & literary fiction graphic novels romance poetry horror short stories view all fiction non-fiction non-fiction art, architecture & photography biographies business, economics & law food & drink health & lifestyle history politics, philosophy & culture science & nature sports view all non-fiction children's children's 0 - 18 months 18 months - 3 years 3 - 5 years 5 - 7 years 7 - 9 years 9 - 12 years view all children's puffin ladybird penguin classics vintage audiobooks gifts & box sets authors authors a-z a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z all authors a-z featured authors philip pullman margaret atwood jonathan coe malorie blackman george orwell ali smith kate atkinson lee child about us about penguin random house uk about us about us overview company history leadership team news blogs work with us work with us authors careers rights and permissions penguin connect partnerships penguin ventures sales & distribution student design award publishing houses publishing houses cornerstone ebury michael joseph penguin general penguin press penguin random house audio penguin random house children's transworld vintage creative responsibility creative responsibility about creative responsibility reading community inclusion sustainability writenow penguin talks contact us contact us offices media contacts catalogues penguin shop gifts for bibliophiles penguin shop penguin shop book bundles penguin gifts signed & special editions writing workshops view all home penguin random house about us welcome to penguin random house uk our latest news about us publishing houses work with us creative responsibility contact us & offices overview company history leadership team news blogs select overview company history leadership team news blogs we exist to connect the world with the words that matter, through books that spark thoughts, dreams, conversations and learning. our story we are part of penguin random house, the world’s leading trade publisher. we champion the world's most brilliant voices, bringing them to life in compelling and dynamic ways for audiences everywhere. in addition to books, ebooks and audiobooks, we also play a part in blockbuster films, tv shows, radio, theatre productions, live events and social media. our books shape the broader cultural life of our society and inform the national conversation. our brands - from ladybird to penguin - accompany people of all ages on their journey of discovery of the greatest stories, the smartest thinking and the best ideas. leading one of the most important creative sectors in the world, we are proud of our past and ambitious about our future. we are penguin random house uk. explore our publishing houses our nine creatively and editorially independent publishing houses seek out and enable talented people from all walks of life to tell their stories – and make sure they are heard. from bestselling writers and bold illustrators, to big thinkers and political commentators, trailblazing entrepreneurs and wellbeing experts, we are home to some of the world's most celebrated authors. find out more about each of our publishing houses and their authors below. getting published how to get published read more our latest news news margaret atwood and bernardine evaristo jointly awarded 2019 booker prize read more news making an impact through creative responsibility: our progress in 2018 read more news winners of the 2019 student design award revealed read more our latest features getting published broadcaster and author tom bradby on how to finish the first draft of your book read more blogs recording an audiobook with lost voice guy aka lee ridley, author of 'i'm only in it for the parking' read more blogs in celebration of books which go beyond the screen read more other news view all news john le carré to narrate the audiobook of his new novel 'agent running in the field' 26 june 2019 news penguin creates scholarship at the glasgow school of art in honour of longtime art director, john hamilton 18 june 2019 what we're reading find your next read lowborn kerry hudson this is not a drill extinction rebellion tan france tan france no one is too small to make a difference greta thunberg find your next read explore penguin random house creative responsibility find out how we're set on closing the uk's creativity gap. get published find insights, advice and resources for writers penguin ventures penguin ventures goes beyond the book with your favourite characters the student design award over a decade unearthing the uk's best new cover designers careers visit our careers website to find out about our latest jobs sign up to the penguin newsletter for the latest books, recommendations, offers and more please enter an email. please enter a valid email address. sign up by signing up, i confirm that i'm over 16. to find out what personal data we collect and how we use it, please visit our privacy policy thank you for signing up to the penguin newsletter keep an eye out in your inbox. oops! it seems you've already subscribed to this newsletter. view all newsletter subscription failed, please try again about us our company work with us getting published careers publishing houses creative responsibility contact us send website feedback useful links privacy policy cookies policy modern slavery statement accessibility terms & conditions help & faqs gender pay gap reports industry commitment to professional behaviour permissions stay connected follow penguin follow puffin follow puffin © 1995 - 2020 penguin books ltd. registered number: 861590 england. registered office: 80 strand, london, wc2r 0rl uk. penguin books limited a penguin random house company. we use cookies on this site and by continuing to browse it you agree to us sending you cookies. for more on our cookies and changing your settings click here. ok