latest books blog podcasts watch about me stay in touch cookie policy your cookie preferences necessary content statistics & marketing this cookie policy ("policy") is intended to inform you how our website uses a technology called “cookies” and web server logs. this policy is intended to assist you in making informed decisions when using our website. please take a minute to read and understand the policy. this policy should also be read in conjunction with our privacy policy and our general terms. what are cookies and what do they do? when you enter the website it will make use of “cookies”. cookies are small text files containing small amounts of information which are downloaded and may be stored on your device e.g. your computer (or other internet enabled devices, such as a smartphone or tablet). we may use similar techniques, such as pixels, web beacons and device fingerprints, and for the sake of consistency all of these techniques will be referred to in this cookie policy as ‘cookies’. this policy provides you with information about the cookies we use and why. ym&u (uk) limited (“us”/“we”/”our”) uses cookies to give you a better online experience. in order to make full use of our website, your computer, tablet or mobile device will need to accept cookies. it is important you know what cookies our website uses and for what purposes. this will help to protect your privacy while at the same time providing you with the best online experience. if you do not wish to accept cookies in connection with your use of this website, you have the following options: you may choose not to accept cookies or turn off cookies at any time (see the “control your cookie settings” section below for more details on how to do this), but please be aware that this may affect the functionality of the website; you can stop using this website. you can change your cookie preferences at any time by changing your settings, which is further explained in the “control your cookie settings” section below. you will find a list of all cookies used by our website in the “how our website uses cookies” section of this policy. please note that disabling the cookies settings on our website shall not result in the deletion of any cookies that have already been set – however, you can delete these at any time by accessing the browser settings on your device (see the “control your cookie settings” section below for more details on how to do this). control your cookie settings once you have given us your agreement to the use of cookies, we shall store a cookie on your computer or device to remember this for the next time. if you wish to withdraw your consent to the use of functional cookies you will have to block these cookies separately through your internet browser settings for each browser you use. you can also use your browser settings to remove any cookies that we have already set on your device. please be aware that some of our services will not function if your browser does not accept functional cookies. however, you can allow cookies from specific websites by making them “trusted websites” in your internet browser at a later date. the following links may assist you in managing your cookies settings, or you can use the ‘help’ option in your internet browser for more details: internet explorer: http://support.microsoft.com/gp/cookies/en mozilla firefox: http://support.mozilla.com/en-us/kb/cookies google chrome: http://www.google.com/support/chrome/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=95647 safari: http://support.apple.com/kb/ph5042 opera: http://www.opera.com/browser/tutorials/security/privacy/ adobe (flash cookies): http://www.adobe.com/security/flashplayer/articles/lso/. other information the following link contains further information about cookies: http://www.aboutcookies.org/. how our website uses cookies we use several different types of cookies. in particular, we use: necessary cookies which enable certain fundamental website features; functionality cookies which allow us to remember choices you make (e.g. your cookie preference); and performance cookies which monitor usage of our website. some of these are session cookies which are temporary and allow us to link your actions during a single visit to our site, and which are erased when you close your browser. others are persistent cookies which remain on your device for the period of time specified in the cookie. the following is a more detailed explanation of the types of cookies we use, categorised by the purpose of the cookies: necessary cookies: necessary cookies are essential and help you navigate the website. these cookies are anonymous, and do not collect or store any personally identifying information about you. without these cookies, we may not be able to provide the services you have asked for. for example, these cookies make sure that you only have to verify your age by responding to the age-gate once on your first visit, rather than every time you visit the website. these cookies also help to support website security and basic functionality and are necessary for the proper operation of our website, so if you block these cookies we can't guarantee your use or the security of our website during your visit. functionality cookies: functionality cookies are used to provide you the best user experience. they also allow the website to remember choices made (such as language or the region you are in) and provide enhanced, more personal features. performance cookies: performance cookies help us to understand the behaviour of our visitors and their usage of the website in an aggregated manner. this allows us to continuously improve the website to provide the best user experience. these cookies are also used to help us understand how effective our advertising is; for instance these cookies tell us which pages visitors go to most often, and if they get error messages from web pages. all information these cookies collect is aggregated, to assist us to improve how a website works. some of these cookies may managed by third parties (such as google and facebook). we have no control over the dissemination of third party cookies and you should check the relevant third party’s website for more information. cookies used on our website ym&u group name category/purpose description expiration cookie-consent strictly necessary used to record your cookie consent preferences. 1 year craft cms craftcms.com/guides/how-does-craft-use-cookies name category/purpose description expiration craftsessionid strictly necessary this cookie is associated with the craft web content management system, where it functions as an anonymous session identifier. session google universal analytics policies.google.com/technologies/types?hl=en-us developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/cookie-usage name category/purpose description expiration _ga performance used to distinguish unique users by assigning a randomly generated number as a client identifier. it is included in each page request in a site and used to calculate visitor, session and campaign data for the sites analytics reports. 2 years _gat performance used to throttle the request rate - limiting the collection of data on high traffic sites. 1 minute _gid performance used to distinguish users and track the amount of time spent on the site. 24 hours youtube / google policies.google.com/technologies/types name category/purpose description expiration gps tracking/targeting/advertising registers a unique id on mobile devices to enable tracking based on geographical gps location. 30 minutes pref tracking/targeting/advertising this cookie, which may be set by google or doubleclick, may be used by advertising partners to build a profile of interests to show relevant ads on other sites. it works by uniquely identifying your browser and device. 8 months visitor_info1_live tracking/targeting/advertising this cookie is set by youtube to keep track of user preferences for youtube videos embedded in sites; it can also determine whether the website visitor is using the new or old version of the youtube interface. 6 months ysc tracking/targeting/advertising this cookie is set by youtube to track views of embedded videos. session google doubleclick policies.google.com/technologies/types name category/purpose description expiration ide targeting/advertising this cookie is set to note your specific user identity. it contains a hashed/encrypted unique id. it also carries out information about how the end user uses the website and any advertising that the end user may have seen before visiting the website. 390 days __gads targeting/advertising its purpose is to do with the showing of adverts on the site, for which the owner may earn some revenue. 2 years test_cookie targeting/advertising this cookie is used to determine if the website visitor’s browser supports cookies. 15 minutes instagram please enable javascript to see this instagram feed. © giovanna fletcher 2020 ym&u group management privacy terms cookies site by ten4