home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact menu home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact search close about hello! i’m shing and i currently live in london after growing up in yorkshire. travelling has always been in my blood. having an irish mother and a chinese father, i grew up learning about my heritage and i relished in the diversity and differences between these two cultures. as soon as i was able to work at sixteen, every penny i saved went towards travelling. i began by going on european train journeys with my twin brother, then when i turned twenty-one i went to china for 8-months to teach english by myself. during this time i discovered how much i enjoyed solo travelling. now that i’m older, i still love travelling but i also prioritise other things in life and find a lot more value in things that are on my doorstep, especially in london. outside of travelling, i have a ba in creative writing and an ma in human rights and social justice. most people choose a post-grad course that’s related to their under-grad but that might tell you something about my personality and interests which are always evolving. why do i write a travel blog? this travel blog began life in 2012 after a few previous attempts of blogging that involved uploading some poor quality photos taken on a point-and-shoot compact camera together with some badly written captions. however, something finally worked, because years later, this blog still exists and i’m still updating it. though not as much as i’d like, mind you. having a little space on the internet where i can document my travels is a bit like having medicine for my shoddy memory. i grew frustrated at not being able to recall that restaurant i accidentally stumbled across in venice that served food straight from nana’s kitchen, or what that guy was called who helped me out when i was roaming around in the middle of the night looking for my hostel in moscow, or where that alleyway in berlin was with the crumbling walls enveloped in street art. friends would ask me for recommendations about places i’d been and i was about as much use as a car without wheels! but if i put the topic of my memory to one side, the most important reason for having this travel blog is to interact with people who share my thirst for experiencing new cultures and adventures (and it’s also a nice thought to know that some of the articles i’ve written might be useful to someone planning their own trip!). what do i specialise in? i have travelled through nearly 50 countries across six continents, so this travel blog covers the world, however it has a special emphasis on scandinavia and the arctic regions. i love most things scandinavian, from contemporary design and food, to its incredible landscape, and eco-friendly attitude which i try to adopt myself. if you’re not too sure where to start on my blog then take a look at my blog highlights page for more inspiration and if you have any questions or you’d wish to collaborate then see my work with me page. stay tuned, shing useful links home about blog work with me press popular iceland norway japan patagonia england facebook twitter instagram stay updated join my monthly newsletter for travel guides & tips email send