start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events search start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events join our facebook community start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events search about problogger welcome to problogger.com – a blog that helps bloggers to add income streams to their blogs. my name is darren rowse and i’m a full time blogger making a living from this new and dynamic medium from blogs like digital photography school. i’m also an author and speaker… but more of that shortly. from hobby to profession back in 2002 i stumbled upon an article about ‘blogging’. i didn’t know it at the time but that moment changed my life. i know that statements like that belong on those cheesy ‘buy my $1000 training program’ sites (don’t worry i’m not selling anything more than a book) but it is actually true. within 24 hours of reading the article i had started my own blog – a personal blog where i’ve explored issues of pop culture, spirituality and blogging ever since. i’ve learned so much from the experience of that blog that i’ve since started many other blogs. as my blogs have grown in popularity and have begun to generate income blogging has grown from a hobby (some would say an obsession), to a part time job through to a fully fledged business in recent times. i have slowly built my blogging into an income source that has enabled me to dedicate more and more time to the medium to the point where i am currently a full time blogger – a problogger. if you want to read an extended version of my story i’ve written it at becoming a problogger. you might also like to visit my problogger in the press page or if you have a few minutes check out this keynote i gave at the world domination summit in which i share some of my story. darren rowse from chris guillebeau on vimeo. why problogger? this site is dedicated to helping other bloggers learn the skills of blogging, share their own experiences and promote the blogging medium. i started problogger in september 2004 mainly because i wanted to keep a record of what i was learning about blogging for money and because i wanted to connect with other bloggers making money from their blogs. since then i’ve added well over 8000 articles, tips, tutorials and case studies to my archives here. in 2015 i also started a podcast for those of you who prefer to learn through listening. you can find the problogger podcast here or on itunes. if you would like more information on problogger please get in touch through my contact page. subscribe to problogger please stay in touch with what problogger.net is up to through one of our subscription methods. also feel free to connect with me on twitter, facebook, google+ and linkedin if you’re active on those networks. get problogger… in a book in 2008 i was approached by the publisher wiley who asked me to write a book version of this blog. i joined with fellow blogger chris garrett and together we authored problogger the book. in short – it’s a condensed, updated and logically ordered version of this blog – specifically written for new bloggers (or those wanting to start blogging). since 2008 the book has been updated twice – it’s now in it’s 3rd edition with all the latest information we could put together. in 2009 i also released 31 days to build a better blog workbook (and since updated it in 2012). a resource for bloggers who want to kick start their blogs with a month long series of exercises. we’ve also since released the copywriting scorecard for bloggers and problogger’s guide to your first week of blogging and a few other ebooks and resources. problogger events lastly – if you’re in australia you might also like to check out the problogger training events that we hold for aussie bloggers. we’ve been holding them for several years and they’re a great opportunity to get together with hundreds of other aussie bloggers to learn and network. check out details of our next problogger training event here. i also speak both around australia and the world – more information on my speaking can be found here. every week we'll send you blogging advice, tips and in-depth tutorials join our community of 300,000+ bloggers! name name website subscribe recently at the job board email marketer - reach a big audience and make a positive impact expert tech blog writer finance or seo specialist writer wanted fitness & lifestyle bloggers wanted! [european] content writer for adult toy website problogger top articles how to start a blog how to create great blog content how to find readers for your blog 7 strategies to build community on your blog how to make money blogging 5 ways to make your blogging life easier top resources 31 days to build a better blog problogger’s guide to your first week of blogging problogger’s guide to blogging for your business blog wise: how to do more with less the blogger’s guide to online marketing recommended blogging resources about blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses speaking privacy terms contact copyright © 2020 problogger.com · all rights reserved