mywifequitherjob.com primary menu skip to content home back to start start hereget your store running our story who is steve chou? blog get the latest podcast subscribe & listen toolsproducts i love income reportstrack my online progress about mywifequitherjob.com is an outlet for my wife and i to document our experiences and strategies for building wealth on a single steady income. my wife used to have a steady job working as a financial analyst for almost a decade until she became pregnant with our child. because we’ve always strongly believed that the best people to raise a child are the parents themselves, my wife graciously quit her job to spend more time with our daughter. it hasn’t been easy living in the silicon valley on only a single steady income. the cost of living here is atrociously high and housing costs are through the roof. because we knew my wife was going to quit her job, we were able to plan ahead and implemented many strategies for generating additional income well in advance. in retrospect, my wife’s resignation was the best thing that ever happened to us. we now own and run a profitable online store and manage a successful portfolio of investment securities as well. the purpose of mywifequitherjob.com is to share with you our knowledge, experience and mistakes so that you can benefit from this information. my wife and i sincerely thank you for reading this blog. feel free to check out our online shop and our ecommerce course! bumblebee linens create a profitable online store course about the authors steve carries both a bachelors and a masters degree in electrical engineering from stanford university. despite majoring in electrical engineering, he spent a good portion of his graduate education studying entrepreneurship and the mechanics of running small businesses. he currently works for a startup company in the silicon valley. jennifer carries a bachelors degree in economics from uc davis. she is exceptionally adept in all financial matters and has a strong background in accounting as well. while she has quit her day job, she occupies her time managing our online store and taking care of our beautiful children. facebook: my facebook page twitter id: @mywifequit if you still want to know more about me, then check out 25 random things you don’t know about me if you want to know more about my wife, then check out 25 random things you don’t know about the wife of mywifequitherjob.com create a profitable online store! a completely free mini course on how to develop a niche ecommerce website in 5 easy steps! learn how to find products to sell and setup your online store. get the free course now! popular featured recent the dangers of selling on amazon and horror stories from real amazon sellers amazon fba – a 2020 guide to selling private label products canton fair – my guide to china’s largest wholesale supplier trade show how to start a business with no money. here’s exactly what i’d do how to find the best products to sell online – the ultimate step by step guide 12 things i learned from starting two 7-figure lifestyle businesses how to find china wholesale suppliers and import direct from chinese factories how much it costs to start an online store and should i dropship or carry inventory the best way to find wholesale suppliers, vendors and products for your online store how to approach a new wholesale vendor or supplier when you have no store, no site and no sales how long does it take to start an online business? private label vs retail arbitrage vs dropshipping vs wholesale – 8 ecommerce business models compared bigcommerce vs shopify – a review of the best shopping carts drip vs convertkit vs aweber vs mailchimp – reviewed by a 7 figure blogger how to start an online store, own your own website and sell online shopify seo – the definitive guide to ranking your store in search how to increase your amazon sales rank by 209% with a simple photo tweak poorly designed websites: 9 mistakes ecommerce store owners make (and how to fix them) why good grades often lead to failed businesses how to become an entrepreneur: convincing yourself to take action and the key to behavioral change recurring revenue – how to get repeat customers and why you must look beyond amazon how to start a wordpress blog on a shopify or bigcommerce store and should it be on a subdomain? how to figure out what you should do for a living if you hate your job convertkit vs aweber – a detailed email marketing comparison written by a 7 figure blogger 297: the financial repercussions of corona virus on our businesses recession 2020 – 5 ways i’m preparing for the downturn 296: 6 ways to become a millionaire in the next 5 years with steve chou amazon best sellers – how to pick top selling products for fba 295: cathy heller on how to make money as a musician how to get rich – 20 lessons on making money when lifestyle is your priority 294: grant baldwin on how to scale a niche business by 3x 293: arri bagah on how to do sms marketing the right way 292: mari smith on how to build organic facebook traffic today amazon dropshipping – is this risky business model worth it? 291: subtle conversion killers you aren’t accounting for with luke carthy shopify vs wix – which is better for ecommerce? where should i begin? read about our entrepreneurship story let's meet up at my ecommerce conference use the products i love and recommend learn how to start an ecommerce store for free learn how to start a blog for free get social about contact twitter facebook pinterest mywifequitherjob.com copyright 2020 all rights reserved. please read our privacy policy