bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates cad usd eur gbp aud inr chat call login wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates chat call call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 login cad usd eur gbp aud inr about us about bluehost bluehost is a leading web hosting solutions company. since our founding in 2003, bluehost has continually innovated new ways to deliver on our mission: to empower people to fully harness the web. based in orem, utah, we provide comprehensive tools to millions of users throughout the world so anyone, novice or pro, can get on the web and thrive with our web hosting packages. swipe 2003 bluehost hosting services was founded by matt heaton and danny ashworth in provo, utah. +2m we power websites all over the world and support thousands more every day. 750+ our vast team is dedicated to helping our customers around the clock, 24/7 so we can be the best web hosting company to our customers at all times. committed to wordpress we believe in wordpress and our partnership has allowed us to support it for over 10 years. our in-house team consists of dedicated wordpress experts to provide the best customer support whenever you need answers. we even dedicate engineers on our development staff to full-time wordpress core development. no one powers wordpress better or understands it more than we do. bluehost is constantly driven to be the number one web solution provider. learn more contributing to open source from our servers to our internal tools to the scripts our customers rely on, our secure web hosting company is built on open source. to give back to the community we work hand-in-hand with developers to leverage our resources and expertise towards helping their software thrive. with a development team experienced in optimizing over 80 open source platforms, bluehost is the world's leading solution for open source implementation and development. we're an affordable web hosting company that offers the best services for your web hosting needs. bluehost is among the most reliable web hosting companies on the market. come see why millions of people choose bluehost as their trusted hosting provider. learn more part of a big family since 2010, we’ve been fortunate enough to be part of the endurance international group’s family of brands. with their backing and support we’ve been able to accelerate our mission in every way. learn more about our parent company and how we work better together to build incredible websites. learn more a better web for all it's not just about getting people online. it's about creating a better, safer web for everyone in the process. we fight spammers, block pornography, and invest in countless open source projects to help push the internet to its full potential. we promote web civility and do all we can to foster a safe place where the young and old, novice and pro, can fully harness the web to accomplish great things. complete web solutions our best-in-class solutions are designed to meet the needs of a wide range of customers. all fully-managed, these solutions empower novice users with tools that are simple to use, and help pro users save time and energy normally associated with maintenance. whether on a traditional hosting or cloud-based server, all incorporate the ability to upgrade so customers can easily scale as they grow. learn more extensive tools integrated into every bluehost account, a suite of add-on products and resources enhance our customers' ability to build an online presence as unique as they are. these tools provide added security, power, speed, and functionality and are offered a-la-carte as well as in bundles and packages. professional services for those preferring to leave certain tasks to the experts, our range of paid services address everything from online marketing to web design to malware diagnosis and repair. exclusive to bluehost customers only, they can enjoy one-on-one access to a bluehost expert to improve their online presence immediately. learn more expert support no one knows the web better. we understand not only how it works, but more importantly how it can be used as a tool to bring our customer’s online vision to life. our in-house experts are available 24/7 to answer any and all questions so anyone can safely shoot for the moon. our history bluehost was founded in 2003 with one goal in mind: to create a better hosting company. our founders aimed to deliver comprehensive web solutions by crafting a custom platform that paired advanced features with a simple, no-nonsense experience. since then, bluehost's dedication to quality has earned the respect of customers and partners all over the world. swipe dec 2003 bluehost is founded by matt heaton and danny ashworth. aug 2007 over 500,000 domains registered on bluehost.com june 2008 one million domains registered on bluehost.com nov 2010 bluehost acquired by endurance international group (eig). april 2013 launch of vps and dedicated hosting solutions. oct 2013 endurance international group goes public. may 2014 optimized hosting for wordpress released. july 2015 cloudsites released. swipe contact have questions about getting on the web? we're always standing by and ready to help. learn more careers see if joining the bluehost family is right for you. check out available positions today! learn more blog the latest tech news, updates, and insider tips - straight from the experts. learn more contact have questions about getting on the web? we're always standing by and ready to help. learn more careers see if joining the bluehost family is right for you. check out available positions today! learn more blog the latest tech news, updates, and insider tips - straight from the experts. learn more contact information email: press@bluehost.com phone: 781.482.5809 contact us media kit download the bluehost logo in png format download press releases nov 21 2019 bluehost marketplace seamlessly integrates wordpress themes and plugins into platform nov 1 2019 bluehost continues support of wordpress.org with 2020 wordcamp sponsorship renewal mar 21 2019 bluehost dedicates team of wordpress experts to getting new users online fast dec 5 2018 bluehost expands offerings with the launch of wp pro may 8 2018 bluehost announces annual internet in education scholarship may 4 2018 bluehost announces the winners of annual spotlight awards dec. 1 2017 bluehost announces sponsorship of 2018 wordpress wordcamps oct. 3 2017 bluehost's new technology offers small business owners and entrepreneurs a quick and easy wordpress solution jan. 11 2017 bluehost teams with google domains to help small businesses get online with wordpress products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.