wordpress.com menu features themes plans blog support sign up log in about us at wordpress.com, our mission is to democratize publishing one website at a time. open source wordpress is the most popular online publishing platform, currently powering more than a third of the web. we wanted to bring the wordpress experience to an even larger audience, so in 2005 we created wordpress.com. we’re a hosted version of the open source software. here, you can start a blog or build a website in seconds without any technical knowledge. overall, the wordpress.com network welcomes more than 409 million people viewing more than 15.5 billion pages each month. our users publish about 41.7 million new posts and leave 60.5 million new comments each month. all of us at automattic constantly work on improving wordpress.com. we roll out updates almost every day, and develop other services, like gravatar and simplenote, to enhance your experience on the web. we want to build products, features, and themes you will love using, so don’t hesitate to leave us your feedback. almost everything on wordpress.com is free, and what’s currently free will remain so in the future. we keep your sites free by offering upgrades for things like plans and custom domains, as well as products like anti-spam software akismet and vip hosting partnerships with major media outlets. whether you’re a blogger or a website owner, we know you have many places where you can pitch your online tent. if you’re a current user, thanks for choosing us — we love having you around. if you’re looking to build your online presence and haven’t decided where to drop anchor, give us a try. we’d love to become your home on the web. get started create your own website do more features store themes developers community support forums wordcamps wordpress.org company f • t our story privacy terms of service matt mullenweg we are hiring php developers. join us! from our blogs broken all-time favorites retrospective a treasure trove of archives: our absolute favorite posts an automattic opus