about the adventure junkies our mission is to make the outdoors accessible to everyone in order to inspire people to value, understand and protect our planet's ecosystems. our mission is to make the outdoors accessible to everyone in order to inspire people to value, understand and protect our planet's ecosystems. we believe when you step out into the wild places of the world, you don’t come back the same person. experiences in nature inspire a lifelong connection with our planet and the creatures we share it with. simply put, we do what we do because we believe the world needs more adventure junkies. an adventure junkie is much more than someone who's addicted to adventure. they are infinite learners, dreamers and doers. they set big goals for themselves and push their limits to achieve them. through their experiences in the outdoors, they've developed a deep sense of respect for nature. to help people become adventure junkies, we created this website to be the place to go to learn about outdoor activities and connect with a global network of like-minded people. through our actionable digital resources and our supportive online communities, we give you the tools you need to experience nature in powerful ways. whether you dream of hiking through a pristine forest or exploring the depths of the ocean, we’re here to help make it possible. we do all this because we believe in the power of adventure. that getting people out into nature is the solution to lasting conservation of the world’s species and ecosystems. conservation is a state of harmony between humans, the land and all living creatures. it’s about balance, respect and understanding. conservation efforts create a world where all life can co-exist and thrive for generations to come. experiences outdoors inspire this harmony like nothing else. films, books and t.v shows can certainly spark an interest but nothing beats the experience itself. you have to be there. you have to see it, to feel it to really understand how precious nature is. stepping outdoors creates a chain of events. first, it empowers the adventurer with a new perspective. second, it provides jobs for local communities. third, it demonstrates the value of wildlife and natural ecosystems to government leaders. as a company, the adventure junkies, has a role to play in making a positive impact in conservation. we want to help you explore our beautiful planet, today! sounds like something you’d like to be a part of? here’s what you can do. 1) use our resources: the adventure junkies offers the best tools to learn a new outdoor activity on the web. 2) join our communities: we have dedicated digital communities for each activity we cover on the site. these are excellent places to get advice from other adventure junkies. 3) go on an adventure!: once you’re geared up and ready to go, turn off your screen and get outside. we believe when you step out into the wild places of the world, you don’t come back the same person. experiences in nature inspire a lifelong connection with our planet and the creatures we share it with. simply put, we do what we do because we believe the world needs more adventure junkies. an adventure junkie is much more than someone who's addicted to adventure. they are infinite learners, dreamers and doers. they set big goals for themselves and push their limits to achieve them. through their experiences in the outdoors, they've developed a deep sense of respect for nature. to help people become adventure junkies, we created this website to be the place to go to learn about outdoor activities and connect with a global network of like-minded people. through our actionable digital resources and our supportive online communities, we give you the tools you need to experience nature in powerful ways. whether you dream of hiking through a pristine forest or exploring the depths of the ocean, we’re here to help make it possible. we do all this because we believe in the power of adventure. that getting people out into nature is the solution to lasting conservation of the world’s species and ecosystems. conservation is a state of harmony between humans, the land and all living creatures. it’s about balance, respect and understanding. conservation efforts create a world where all life can co-exist and thrive for generations to come. experiences outdoors inspire this harmony like nothing else. films, books and t.v shows can certainly spark an interest but nothing beats the experience itself. you have to be there. you have to see it, to feel it to really understand how precious nature is. stepping outdoors creates a chain of events. first, it empowers the adventurer with a new perspective. second, it provides jobs for local communities. third, it demonstrates the value of wildlife and natural ecosystems to government leaders. as a company, the adventure junkies, has a role to play in making a positive impact in conservation. we want to help you explore our beautiful planet, today! sounds like something you’d like to be a part of? here’s what you can do. 1) use our resources: the adventure junkies offers the best tools to learn a new outdoor activity on the web. 2) join our communities: we have dedicated digital communities for each activity we cover on the site. these are excellent places to get advice from other adventure junkies. 3) go on an adventure!: once you’re geared up and ready to go, turn off your screen and get outside. the adventure junkies the adventure junkies our story hi, we're antonio and amanda, the founders of the adventure junkies. we'd like to share a bit of our story, how this website came to be and what we can do for you. our first bike trip the adventure junkies began as a personal blog to share our 3 year cycling adventure, where we rode our bikes from san francisco to argentina. sure, we were on a cycling trip but it wasn't all about cranking out miles, we went on plenty of other kinds "off the bike" adventures too. we hiked though the snowy mountain passes of the andes, paddled the cactus lined coastline of baja california and went diving with hundreds of hammerhead sharks in colombia. over the years of cycling and adventuring, we had tried so many new things, pushed ourselves physically and mentally and had grown stronger because of it. our first bike trip the adventure junkies began as a personal blog to share our 3 year cycling adventure, where we rode our bikes from san francisco to argentina. sure, we were on a cycling trip but it wasn't all about cranking out miles, we went on plenty of other kinds "off the bike" adventures too. we hiked though the snowy mountain passes of the andes, paddled the cactus lined coastline of baja california and went diving with hundreds of hammerhead sharks in colombia. over the years of cycling and adventuring, we had tried so many new things, pushed ourselves physically and mentally and had grown stronger because of it. something bigger than ourselves when the readers of our blog began to ask us how they could go on their own adventures, we wanted to help them because we knew experiences outdoors would have a huge impact on their lives and how they saw the world. if we really wanted to help others, we had to do more than inspire people through our stories, we had to give them real tools. having tweaked our idea over countless nights while lying in our tent, we knew in our hearts that the adventure junkies could be so much more than a travel blog. something much bigger than us. something bigger than ourselves when the readers of our blog began to ask us how they could go on their own adventures, we wanted to help them because we knew experiences outdoors would have a huge impact on their lives and how they saw the world. if we really wanted to help others, we had to do more than inspire people through our stories, we had to give them real tools. having tweaked our idea over countless nights while lying in our tent, we knew in our hearts that the adventure junkies could be so much more than a travel blog. something much bigger than us. recreating the adventure junkies when we set out to transform the adventure junkies from a blog to a true resource, we envisioned a brand that would give you everything you needed to learn new outdoor activities. sure, there were magazines, gear stores and online forums, but nothing existed for complete beginners. those people who don't know where to even start. so, we set out to create just that. we recreated the adventure junkies to have two main features. one is a collection of quality resources about outdoor activities. the other is a group of supportive online communities that are led by adventure experts. recreating the adventure junkies when we set out to transform the adventure junkies from a blog to a true resource, we envisioned a brand that would give you everything you needed to learn new outdoor activities. sure, there were magazines, gear stores and online forums, but nothing existed for complete beginners. those people who don't know where to even start. so, we set out to create just that. we recreated the adventure junkies to have two main features. one is a collection of quality resources about outdoor activities. the other is a group of supportive online communities that are led by adventure experts. © 2019 the adventure junkies llc. all rights reserved about how do we review privacy policy terms contact jobs this website uses cookies to improve your experience. we'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.accept reject read more × privacy overview privacy overview