skip to content marketop data marketing agency home about solutions blog contact home about solutions blog contact marketop digital agency marketop is a data marketing agency powered by ai and machine learning. with an understanding that traditional marketing and sales tactics aren’t yielding enough conversions in the digital world that we live in today, our team of visionary marketing, sales, and technology leaders turned to artificial intelligence, machine learning, and automation as a solution to providing true leads to businesses that have the potential to grow exponentially. we’re excited to introduce the next big thing in lead generation! 0 k+ leads generated 0 years in business 0 + successful projects our process strategy developing your strategy is by far the most crucial aspect of our process. in fact, it is the brain behind our incredible track record of success. our team of experts provide a thorough onboarding session to make sure no details are left out. implementation within just 2 weeks of activation, you will be receiving your first batch of qualified ai generated leads and daily real-time leads thereafter. get ready because things move pretty fast! conversion optimization when it comes to nurturing your leads, things can quickly get out of hand if you don’t have the correct intake process. not only will our team create an intake strategy on your behalf, we offer a variety of conversion tools that will increase your rate of sales. data analysis at marketop, we’re all about data and results. we encourage you to schedule monthly, bi-weekly, and even weekly calls with a campaign manager to share successes and challenges so that we know what’s working and what’s not. case studies personal injury law generating on average 6 to 11 leads per day new york personal injury law click below to view the customer success story! case study mortgage 18% conversion rate within the first 90 days of activation north carolina mortgage broker click below to view the customer success story! case study real estate 13 new buyer contracts within first 21 days of activation denver real estate click below to view the customer success story! case study mortgage 17 sales within first 30 days of activation florida mortgage broker click below to view the customer success story! case study immigration law received 5-10 calls per week new york immigration attorney click below to view the customer success story! case study our clients have a question for us? let’s chat! contact form email us to discuss details! team@marketop.io find us on:facebooktwitterlinkedin © 2020 marketop ❤️ nyc privacy policies terms of use useful links go to top