project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure about diy inspired thank you for stopping by diy inspired! about me hello, i’m dinah! i’m the creator of diy inspired and a work at home mom in southern california that loves to craft, decorate, repurpose and create. i especially love trash to treasure projects. my inspiration comes from several people including martha, to my 8 year old and 3 year old daughters, and my extremely talented older brother. i spend hours getting inspiration from swap meets and flea markets, thrift stores, garage sales, and books and magazines. in this article, i tell a personal story that i think helped shape who i am today. deciding to be a stay at home mom was not easy for me because, first, i had spent the last ten years working my butt off. in addition, i spent several years in college getting degrees and even teaching a little at the state college level. as a result, working hard was in my blood. ultimately, everything changed when my amazing husband and i had our first beautiful little girl. why i started diy inspired becoming a parent, as many of you can attest, flipped my world upside down, and there was no way i was going to miss the first laugh, the first word, the first step, or any milestone in between. staying at home not only meant quality time with my daughter, but also allowed more time to do what i love… get diy crafty on the cheap. with the support of my family and friends, i started this blog to simply test and challenge myself to start new projects, share my inspirations, and hopefully inspire a few others along the way. my accomplishments it’s been a crazy (and fun) few years, check out some of my accomplishments. i’ve been lucky enough to… appeared on fox news la and ktla 5 morning news be published in a couple magazines like, real simple and parent’s magazine named one of mashable’s moms full of inspiring advice partnered with over 50 fabulous brands including jo-ann fabric and crafts, home depot, and gmc been a brand ambassador for several notable companies filmed some pretty cool professional videos looking back on the past year, i put together a 60 second video clip to remember what a great year i had! advertise with diy inspired if you are interested in advertising, here are my diy inspired advertising guidelines. feel free to email me with any questions at dwulf@diyinspired.com. if you don’t know where to start, home is the best way to go! thank you for stopping by! dinah primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more