home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more about michael hyatt if you’re like most of my readers, you’re already a high-achieving leader. you’re committed to making big contributions at work—and seeing big results. but you’re not just looking for one-dimensional success. you also want to thrive in the other domains of life: your relationships with family and friends your health your spiritual and intellectual growth your hobbies, passions, and interests your legacy in the lives of the people around you you’re after long-lasting, multidimensional success. and that really matters. winning in all of life’s domains improves the lives of everyone around you. your team enjoys a more joyful, fulfilled leader. your family rests assured that they’re no. 1 in your life. plus you have the energy, creativity, and stamina you need to be your best at work and at home. but there’s something in the way, isn’t there? you want to live this vision of your life, but it feels like there’s no time for it. when you’re traveling for work, you miss your daughter’s soccer game. when you make the game, you’re constantly worried you’re missing something important at work. the sense that you’re shortchanging one priority to serve another never ends. you feel like a juggler with fifteen balls in the air and, too often, important ones—like your health or your personal development—get dropped. sound familiar? i’ve been there, too. i know what it feels like to be in over your head—to have your success outpace your ability to manage it, while still attending to the things that matter most. for years, i struggled to balance it all. and my success came at the expense of my health and my most valuable relationships. the turnaround for me came when i realized the answer isn’t simply to get more done. success is about getting the *right things* done. i discovered how to sync my daily activities with my most important goals and priorities. since then, my life has never been the same. i’ve continued to flourish professionally. formerly the chairman and ceo of thomas nelson publishers, i’m also a bestselling author, and successful entrepreneur. in fact, my business was recently named to the inc. 5000 list of america’s fastest-growing private companies after experiencing 330 percent growth in just three years. but my favorite wins are at home. i’ve been married to my wife, gail, for thirty-nine years and we’re more in love now than ever. we have five grown daughters, eight grandchildren, and an exceptional dog named winston. to top it all off, i’m in my sixties enjoying the best health of my life. it’s not a magic trick, and i’m certainly no superhero. i’ve simply discovered a way to do more of what matters and less of what doesn’t. can i help you do the same? together with my team at michael hyatt & company, i help overwhelmed high achievers like you win at work, succeed at life, and lead with confidence. our mission is to give you the clarity, courage, and tools you need to stop all the frenzy and start living with focus. through courses (like 5 days to your best year ever™ and free to focus™), products (like the full focus planner™ and leaderbox™), plus this digital magazine and podcast—we’re creating a leadership revolution. every day, we see leaders trade burnout for balance. we hope you’ll join us. get the good stuff. if it’s your first time here, you may want to start by checking out some of our most popular content. we’ve listed our top resources in each category below. leadership 5 characteristics of weak leaders (and how not to be one) the top 10 characteristics of lousy leaders 5 reasons you should smile more as a leader personal development the difference between trying and doing how a shift in your vocabulary can instantly change your attitude 7 steps to becoming a happy person others want to be around productivity 5 reasons why you should take a nap every day how to become a morning person slay your dragons before breakfast tools and technology how i organize evernote: a peek inside my personal system the 7 benefits of keeping a daily journal yes, you can stay on top of e-mail what matters most why speaking well of your spouse is so important how to create more margin in your life ten difficult, but really important words platform-building how to start a blog: your first 10 moves how to write better blog posts with a simple template social media is sexy, but email still wins! you can also check my blog’s archive for a list of every post i have written or use the search function in the upper right corner of this page to find other posts that might be of interest. recent media coverage “17 online marketing influencers to keep your eyes on in 2017,” forbes (may 22, 2017) “the 2 most important qualities you'll need to succeed,” entrepreneur (april 12, 2017) “3 podcasts that will help millennials take over the world,” mashable (march 31, 2017) “6 ways to write a bestseller (and build your brand),” entrepreneur (march 30, 2017) lolly daskal, “12 podcasts that will make you into better leaders,” inc. (march 13, 2017) “why busyness isn't good business,” forbes (march 11, 2017) “the benefits of writing your own weekly, monthly, and annual reviews,” lifehacker (february 21, 2017) “take notes with a structured template,” the chronicle of higher education (february 14, 2017) “how hard do you need to work to reach success?,” entrepreneur (february 7, 2017) more media coverage » a word about affiliates. some of my articles contain affiliate links to products, apps, and services. if you click through and purchase, my company will receive a small commission on the sale. rest assured, i only recommend products or services that i personally use or believe will be helpful to my readers. now it’s your turn. every resource on this site was created with you in mind. every podcast episode, article, product, and tool has been designed to help high-achievers like you achieve lasting success in all of life’s domains. to ensure you don’t miss a thing, why not subscribe? it’s fast, easy, and you can unsubscribe at any time. best of all, i have a special gift when you subscribe. (click here to find out more.) yes, you really can win at work, succeed at life, and lead with confidence. all it takes is the intention and a leadership mentor to guide you. if you’ll provide the first, i’ll provide the second. let’s get started. mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed