statista logo statista.com statista.es statista.de statista.fr prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics all industries consumer goods & fmcg internet media & advertising retail & trade sports & recreation technology & telecommunications transportation & logistics travel, tourism & hospitality most-viewed statistics recent statistics popular statistics facebook: number of monthly active users worldwide 2008-2019 smartphone market share worldwide by vendor 2009-2019 number of apps available in leading app stores 2019 opec oil price annually 1960-2020 big mac index - global prices for a big mac 2020 topics topic overview smartphones - statistics & facts social media - statistics & facts top study view study industry overview reports dossiers get a quick quantitative overview of a topic outlook reports trend forecasts in the statista market outlooks surveys market insights from an expert and consumer perspective toplists company rankings for sales and analysis market studies complete markets in evaluation industry reports all key figures for an industry global business cities reports global business city rankings and key figures on cities brand reports insights and benchmarks on brands worldwide country reports countries and their potential further studies get a deeper insight into your topic outlooks consumer market outlook everything you need to know about consumer goods digital market outlook identify market potentials of the digital future mobility market outlook key topics in mobility country outlook key economic and social indicators technology market outlook new insights on most important technology markets tools publication finder find studies from all around the internet company database new sales and employment figures at a glance business plan export data sets for your business plan infographics services the statistics portal directly accessible data for 170 industries from 50 countries and over 1 mio. facts. about statista first steps and help centre tools and tutorials explained in our media centre research & analysis customized research & analysis projects: market research & market data modelling quick analysis with our professional research service: askstatista content & information design content marketing & information design for your projects: customized infographic service presentation design animated videos whitepapers, e-books, etc. more information ecommercedb.com kpis for more than 20,000 online stores rankings by country rankings by category go to database global survey new prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics popular statistics topics markets reports outlooks consumer market digital market mobility market country outlook technology market tools publication finder company database business plan export infographics services content & information design research projects ask statista global consumer survey de es fr follow statista 40k 57k 41k 9.6k about us – the company behind the successful product within just a few years, statista managed to establish itself as a leading provider of market and consumer data. over 700 visionaries, experts and doers continuously reinvent statista, thereby constantly developing successful new products and business models. >2m registered users 12m visits per month 22,500 renowned sources >1m statistics >80,000 topics 170 industries we believe that facts can inspire great changes and brilliant ideas for our world. we are the fact destination. our video tells you why. statista offers a product i am absolutely committed to. in addition, it is very rewarding to receive so much positive feedback from my customers, which is something that also creates a great working atmosphere in the sales department. marcel grenz, sales director fmcg, retail & e-commerce, hamburg the human resources department manages all aspects relating to our company’s more than 700 employees at a total of 13 sites around the world. statista does a lot for its employees – even far beyond the usual standards. claude mancini, senior hr manager teamwork is what defines statista research & analysis. both within and across our small teams we constantly inspire each other’s work, which lets us achieve the best possible outcome for our projects. julian lindhof, analyst i simply love this place. there is such a strong team spirit and sense of unity; we all support one another. juliana frimpong, student assistant, strategic market insights trust is the foundation of statista’s corporate culture. the freedom we enjoy gives you a true sense of responsibility and motivates you to work on your own initiative. ann-kathrin kohl, market researcher, strategic market insights what i like most about working at statista is the incredible speed at which we generate and implement new ideas. this motivates me greatly and makes it fun to come to work every day. niels terfehr, director research & analysis the different projects and deep insights into different industries never cease to surprise me. despite the impressive size to which statista has grown, i never get the feeling of being just “part of the crowd”. isabell küpper, senior graphic designer / presentation designer i love challenges. nowhere else can you make such a big difference in such a short time like at statista. the team spirit in particular makes me love going to work every day. anja weber, finance manager working at statista to me means working with people who have a sense of teamwork with a capital t. at over 700 employees strong, the company still provides a family atmosphere, and everybody is always ready to help. flat hierarchies furthermore enable me to be involved in important decisions and have my voice heard. marlon mau, web designer/developer statista truly is one big group of friends. even as a student worker, input is always valued and one is made to feel like part of the team. working as a full time researcher now, the change has been seamless and already i was given the chance to broaden my abilities by working in our london office for a couple of months. nane sönnichsen, junior researcher, content department uk from starting out in a basement with only 4 people, now at 30 and still growing - directly contributing to statista’s development in the uk makes me extremely proud. great team to work with, exciting office environment, i’m looking forward to the future success of the company. bilal chaudhry, business development manager, london statista offers a substantial amount of opportunity. starting here as a trainee, statista has given me not only the tools and knowledge to successfully grow and develop in my career, but has also enabled me to travel the world. allison mitchell, key account manager, new york statista for me is a place where i can enjoy collaborating with colleagues from international backgrounds who constantly support me and inspire me to realize new ideas in the daily work. yijia xu, junior researcher, content department asia our locations hamburg london new york paris singapore amsterdam other hamburg – international pure player surrounded by art deco some 500 employees (of more than 700 in total) from over 57 nations work at our headquarters located at the brahms kontor, a splendid art deco building with an extraordinary atmosphere. all key departments such as sales, r&a, content, it and corporate services are based there. the office space is located in hamburg’s beautiful city center directly opposite of the laeiszhalle concert hall and the planten un blomen park. numerous coffee shops and restaurants are located in the immediate neighborhood. many large and small shops can be found on mönckebergstraße, hamburg’s main shopping street, which is just a stone’s throw from brahms kontor. both subway and bus stops are located directly in front of the building. statista gmbh johannes-brahms-platz 1 20355 hamburg germany in july 2018 we hoisted the statista flag on the roof of our corporate building, the brahms‑kontor. london office – an expanding start-up along the thames in 2015, the london office opened in the heart of the city's covent garden, which is only a short walk from the river thames. five years later, the london branch moved across the river to southwark in order to make room for an ever-growing team. a dedicated team with 30 employees attends to our uk customers including google, vodafone, and sky. the office premises boast a stunning industrial interior and are set in close proximity to a myriad of international street food markets and restaurants. the southwark subway station is a mere one-minute walk away, and several bus lines depart at a stop directly across from the office. statista ltd. 209-215 blackfriars road, 5th floor london se1 8nl united kingdom new york – pioneering enterprise in the big apple with 100 employees, the new york office is statista’s largest branch abroad. the office space is located on the 30th floor, which offers our staff a magnificent view over southern manhattan and hudson river. at the pure sales and marketing branch, our employees look after customers such as adobe, google, microsoft and procter & gamble and work hard at establishing statista more and more as the no 1 provider of high-quality data in north america too. statista inc. 55 broad street; 30th floor new york, ny 10004 united states paris office – start-up in the heart of the city we've opened our newest branch office in paris. located between the ‘place de la concorde’ and the ‘opéra garnier’, the office is ideally located for our sales colleagues to visit our customers around the city. excellent connections to public transport, as well as numerous neighbourhood shops, cafes, and restaurants are among the amenities for this superb downtown location. statista sarl 20 rue cambon 75001 paris france singapore – statista goes east we opened our latest branch in marina bay, singapore, one of asia’s most thriving business districts. the office in singapore confirms statista’s ambition to gain a lasting foothold in asia and to continuously expand its business there. statista pte ltd level 24, 138 market street capitagreen, 048945 singapore singapore statista benelux – conquering the low countries in 2018 statista continued its expansion by opening its benelux branch office. located in amsterdam, the netherlands, the benelux office is located between the city center and schiphol airport. the benelux office is a sales & marketing branch with customers throughout belgium, the netherlands and luxembourg. current clients include the european commission, ing, unilever, the dutch ministry of foreign affairs, google, the port of antwerp and toyota. statista gmbh kingsfordweg 151 1043 gr amsterdam the netherlands statista sweden wallingatan 34 11 24 stockholm sweden statista turkey kocatepe mh lamartin cd. no: 5 ofis lamartine floor: 6 34437 taksim i̇stanbul turkey statista austria landstraßer hauptstraße 71/2 1030 vienna austria statista india golden square 102, eden park, 20, vittal mallya rd bangalore-560001 india statista italy blend tower piazza 4 novembre 7 20124 milan italy statista switzerland dreikoenigstrasse 31a 8002 zurich switzerland statista japan level 3, marunouchi nijabashi 3-2-2 marunouchi, chiyoda-ku tokyo 100-0005 japan our services our platforms statista.com consolidates statistical data on over 80,000 topics from more than 22,500 sources and makes it available on four platforms: german, english, french and spanish. search our databases research & analysis statista research & analysis is a combined provider of market research as well as research and analysis services. we help corporate customers collect and prepare market, customer and competitive information. submit an individual research request content & information design statista content & design sees itself as a research and information design agency. we create customized infographics, videos, presentations and publications in the corporate design of our customers. request information design for your company ecommercedb.com ecommercedb.com is the starting point for market analyses, benchmarking and lead generation in the ecommerce sector. the database provides insights into detailed revenue information of 20,000 online shops worldwide. visit ecommercedb.com global consumer survey the global consumer survey allows analyses of consumer behavior and media usage in the on- and offline world based on the data of 700,000 consumers from 55 countries, who were surveyed about 50 topics and 6,500 brands. learn more about the global consumer survey digital & consumer market outlook our market outlooks provide market sizes, forecasts and other indicators for the digital economy, key consumer markets and relevant automotive markets for up to 150 countries. explore the digital and consumer markets your career with us the combination of the pioneering spirit of a start-up with the stability of an established company makes statista an exceptional employer, which walks unconventional and innovative paths. we prefer fast decision-making, flat hierarchies and a company culture based around learning by doing – all this makes us more successful than ever. if you would like to be a part of statista’s success history, love challenges and have a passion for data, then statista is the right choice for you. see our job offers security and data protection statista’s account activation process meets the highest security requirements. all of our customers’ payment and contact details are transmitted using ssl encryption. statista’s technical payment processing is carried out by stripe payments europe ltd. in addition to the maximum degree of security, we also offer our customers a payment process which is as convenient as possible. all services provided by statista can be paid for via credit card and also via invoice. data protection and transparency are important to us. all stored individual data is anonymized and encrypted. more information about data protection can be found in our imprint. feel free to contact support@statista.com or eu.support@statista.com (europe support) for suggestions and criticism. any more questions? for further information please download the company brochure. download brochure we use cookies to personalize contents and ads, offer social media features, and analyze access to our website. in your browser settings you can configure or disable this, respectively, and can delete any already placed cookies. for details, please see your browser’s help section (by pressing f1). please see our privacy statement for details about how we use data.ok home about statista career contact help & faq report bug our media partners privacy imprint menu prices & access popular statistics industries infographics content & design projects research projects askstatista statista.de statista.es statista.fr