flash sale 30-days money-back guarantee free domain 24/7 customer supportview offer up to 90 % off flash sale web hosting plans + free domain when you complete your order in ... 02 days 11 hours 16 minutes 54 seconds get my 90 off! up to 90 % off flash sale 1-click installer php 7.4 support optimized for wordpressview offer up to 90 % off flash sale: web hostingfrom $0.99 /month!get started × who are we? our vision is to enable millions of people around the globe to unlock the power of internet and give them the empowerment to learn, create and grow. learn about hostinger the hostinger story bootstrapped in 2004 hostinger was bootstrapped in 2004 and we’ve been on an epic ride ever since. we had a simple idea to let you create a website for free. with no-limits php, mysql, cpanel & no ads - complete freedom to express yourself online. over 29 million users we provide a world class website hosting platform to over 29 million users in 178 countries. 15k new sign-ups on average every day - that’s 1 new client every 5 seconds! we have developed a powerful technology to help you learn, create and grow. driven by community we owe huge thanks to our community for joining us on this thrilling journey, and we hope that you will continue to be a part of our story. 2019 june steady 2x growth for the last 3 years. our team has grown into 400+ of people worldwide! 2017 january 29m users 2016 october beta version of highly scalable free cloud hosting introduced on 000webhost.com. we have developed a free cloud hosting service! 2014october services localized in 39 countries, icann accreditation a company in brazil and local hosting brand weblink.com.br was launched. data center location and company in singapore was born. 2014 may after amazing growth hostinger exceeds 10m user base. 2013 a company in indonesia and local hosting brand niagahoster.co.id was launched. 2012 rapid international expansion begins with a new company incorporation in cyprus. 2011 hostinger web hosting brand was born. 2010 october it took 6 years to achieve 1m users milestone. 2008 first class cpanel web hosting brand hosting24.com went live. 2007 000webhost.com a world leader in free web hosting services with no advertising was launched! 2004 november a personal company “hosting media” was bootstrapped in kaunas, lithuania. 15k new websites installed on average 10k new user signups every day on average 29m users worldwide choose hostinger products meet our management team chairman arnas stuopelis “teams are independent and have their own okr’s. no bureaucracy, unnecessary coordination, everybody are fully empowered to get things done themselves” ceo balys krikščiūnas “consistently delivering meaningful results is a team sport: guide, engage and recognize others as much as you push yourself” cto antanas patašius “personal growth is highly encouraged which is awesome and probably the best part of being a member of hostinger team” cfo domantas beržanskis “smart people and the right culture empower company to move the mountains. budgeting is not necessary if you have transparent data in place and on time. smart people make wise decisions.” head of people gabija jasiulionytė “company culture’s secret ingredient - people. hire individuality with a great talent and a passion to change the world” head of product žygintas rimkus “our ambitions are growing exponentially and we’re autonomous to make sure we achieve them. we have a standard to keep learning how things work instead of doing stuff” head of marketing daugirdas jankus “we are open and honest with each other. if something is not right - we say so and save time. in this way, we expose the blind-spots of our peers and grow as people and as professionals” head of customer success darius grigorjevas “you are the owner of your decisions at work and life. do more, be faster and concentrate on what matters. our 24/7/365 chat support is always live.” we are global hostinger around the world we have several offices around the world full of people, working to provide you an amazing experience with hostinger. address for correspondence hostinger, uab jonavos g. 60c, 44192 kaunas, lithuania hostinger international ltd. 61 lordou vironos street 6023 larnaca, cyprus start saving now! all-in-one web hosting & domain name from $ 0 99 /mo get started now hosting web hosting vps hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting email hosting cms hosting ecommerce hosting free website hosting website builder cheap web hosting buy hosting windows vps minecraft server hosting web design services domains domain checker domain transfer free domain xyz domain cheap ssl certificate buy domain name whois checker domain name search 99 cent domains free ssl certificate information server status affiliate program payment methods wall of love reviews student discount pricing youtube creators our mission is to make life easier for website developers and their customers. we do it by offering easy to use, fast and reliable web hosting services. and more help report abuse knowledge base tutorials blog company about hostinger contact us our technology career legal privacy policy terms of service © 2004-2020 hostinger.com - premium web hosting, cloud, vps & domain registration services. prices are listed without vat