menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login about “if you light a lamp for someone else it will also brighten your path.” ~buddha in our fast paced, always-on world, it’s not difficult to access information. it comes at you at breakneck speed. articles, blog posts, status updates, tweets—there’s never a shortage of ideas to consider. gaining knowledge isn’t a problem. applying it, on the other hand, is a lot more challenging, especially when you consider how little time we have throughout our busy days to stop, breathe, and just be. tiny buddha is about reflecting on simple wisdom and learning new ways to apply it to our complex lives—complete with responsibilities, struggles, dreams, and relationships. founded in 2009, tiny buddha has emerged as a leading resource for peace and happiness, with close to three million monthly readers and a vibrant community forum. my name is lori deschene. though i run this site, it is not mine. it’s ours. it’s not about me. it’s about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful and useful as mine. the site features stories, tips, and insights from readers of all ages, from all over the globe. you’ll find posts about happiness, love, relationships, change, meaning, mindfulness, spirituality, simplicity, minimalism, letting go, and more. much of it has its roots in buddhism, but this is not a site about religion. it’s about ideas that make sense and make a big difference when applied. when you subscribe to tiny buddha, you will receive one email each weekday, including one or two blog posts. alternatively, you can choose to receive one weekly digest every friday. i invite you to get involved in the site by commenting, sharing a post, or introducing yourself on the tiny buddha facebook page. we’re a really welcoming community! it’s a lot easier to be who you want to be in this world when you remember you are never alone. we are all in this together, and we all have something to teach and something to learn. for weekly or daily emails, subscribe to the blog. to seek or offer support from the community, join the free tiny buddha forums. to display a daily quote on your blog, get the tiny buddha quote widget. to contribute a post, read the submission guidelines and send your contribution using the form provided. to learn more about tiny buddha, read the faqs. to advertise on tiny buddha, visit the sponsor page and contact lori deschene at email(at)tinybuddha.com with “sponsor” in the subject line. to learn about tiny buddha’s books, products, and courses, visit the books & things page. you can also follow tiny buddha twitter, facebook, google+, pinterest, and instagram. thank you for sharing your light. you make a difference, and you’re appreciated. lori deschene tiny buddha founder translate get more fun & inspiring images & videos. fun & inspiring do what you can disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top