skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: about us our story the freshome story began in romania ( a small country in europe ) back in 2007 when founder and ceo micle-mihai cristian launched a blog that would go on to become one of the most popular and successful online magazines to date focusing on interior design and architecture. currently clocking up an impressive 3.8+ million unique monthly visitors, the site provides daily inspiration and advice to those who are seeking to improve, organise and style their homes. with an archive of 7000+ posts featuring over 90,000+ images of great interior products and architectural projects it is no wonder that freshome has one of the most engaged online communities on the net. freshome at a glance: with thousands of blogs and sites linked in to freshome.com, the site also represents a reference point for those who want to acquire an overall idea of what’s happening in the creative and ever-changing world of design. freshome today freshome has grown to become an authority in its niche and its content is regularly picked up and shared by some of the most influential and widely read internet sites including yahoo news, gizmodo, cnet, and the huffington post. freshome is regularly selected as being one of the top blogs on the net and technorati rates it in the top 100blogs for the categories of travel, art, living and home, in which it ranks as the second most influential blog. even forbes has picked up on the success of the site, choosing to interview micle mihai and his team about the runaway growth that the blog has achieved since its inception. today, freshome is the go-to destination for anyone who is passionate about design, architecture, luxury, travel, lifestyle and creativity in the home. those who visit the site are seeking inspiration to help them on their journey to creating their dream home as well as practical solutions to the problems that their homes may present. if this sounds like you, be sure to subscribe to our rss feed or sign up to our email newsletter so you never miss a post. and don’t forget to follow us on twitter and like us on facebook as that’s where the real conversation takes place. we’re waiting to hear from you! © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss