site beginner learn how to build websites make a website start a blog bluehost review about blog contact about site beginner welcome to site beginner and thanks for visiting my about page. the aim of this site is to help both beginner and intermediates to understand how websites work and how easy they are to get up and running – once you know how. with so many different approaches it can be confusing to decide exactly how you build a site. if you are unsure what html code is and have no idea how to even buy a domain name, let alone figure out how to make a website appear on it then this site is for you. there are lots of people out there who want to start a website for business, for a friend or family member or even a personal hobby. but they don't know how. sitebeginner.com aims to simply and demystify this process. quick tip: be very careful of free website builders that let you design the page using a visual editor. these will quite often have restrictions if you ever need to move the site, and the actual code may not be best practice or accessible – which means you'll have a hard job to be found in search engines! contents sitebeginner.com is free as in beer tools i use where should you start? sitebeginner.com is free as in beer i don't charge for the use of sitebeginner.com and want the content to remain free for anybody to use as they see fit. i will occasionally recommend products and services (like budget web hosting) that pay me a commission if you buy them. you are not obliged to follow these recommendations and i only recommend products i've used myself. tools i use i run a variety of different websites – not just this one. below is a list of tools and services i use to manage my websites: pretty link pro (review) – helps me to manage my affiliate links bluehost (review) – a popular cheap wordpress web hosting solution for beginners elementor (review) – i often use this wordpress site builder for designing landing pages shopify (review) – i own a few small ecommerce sites powered by this ecommerce platform where should you start? if you are just looking to make a website quickly and want to get started, you should visit my comprehensive guide how to create a website: the complete beginner’s guide will tell you everything you need to know to get a site online. some of my other popular tutorials include: how to create a blog with wordpress what is the best wordpress hosting blogger vs wordpress best blogging platforms after that, you can explore the rest of the site beginner blog to learn how to make the most of your shiny new website! (visited 1,471 times, 1 visits today) how to make a website a complete guide for beginners. want to learn how to make a website like this? check out our beginner's course now. it's completely free!get started popular posts how to start a blog using wordpress how to point a domain name to your site an ever growing list of ways to make money online… how to accept credit cards on your website the best domain registrars to use in 2020 what is a parked domain & how does it work? what is a domain name and how do they work? how to pick profitable website ideas what is affiliate marketing? choosing a free html editor to build your website how to start a blog a complete guide for beginners. want to learn how to make a blog? check out our beginner's course now. it's completely free!get started categories apache building a website code domains general make money online reviews ecommerce website builders web hosting website traffic wordpress amazon affiliate disclosure sitebeginner.com is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. find out more here. ftc disclosure i may receive customer referral fees from companies mentioned on this website, this does not affect the price you pay for any products you decide to buy. all data & opinions on this website are based on my experience as a paying customer. best blogging platform best wordpress hosting online business ideas shopify review copyright © 2007-2020 all rights reserved. site beginner · about · create a blog · learn copyright © 2020 · sb2 on genesis framework · wordpress · log in