new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area podcasts transcripts about news contact search about about the new york launch pod: highlighting start-ups, disruptors, innovators, and other nontraditional businesses in the new york city area, the new york launch pod is a monthly podcast featuring conversations with a diverse group of entrepreneurs, who share their experiences and insights building new businesses in and around the big apple. from business strategy, to dealing with logistical and financial obstacles, to the sometimes painful growth process, the podcast covers key issues facing entrepreneurs and their businesses. hosted by hal coopersmith, a practicing attorney in new york city, the podcast is designed to address the unique opportunities and challenges presented by doing business in and new york city. for anyone who owns a business, is thinking about starting one, or is simply interested in learning more about this endlessly fascinating (and terrifying) subject, the new york launch pod is required listening. the new york launch pod is a production of bull path media inc. about hal coopersmith: born and raised in new york city, hal coopersmith has entrepreneurship in his blood. with a mother who started a personal training company and a father who manages a law firm, it’s only natural that he would feel an affinity for risk-takers and innovators. a graduate of brown university, where he majored in economics, and fordham university school of law, hal spent several years working in advertising for fortune 500 companies before settling into his current role as an attorney. this diverse educational and professional background, plus his belief that there has never been a better time to start a business, gives him a unique perspective and ensures that his interviews are always informative, insightful and thought-provoking. share this: 2016 new york press club winner for best podcast subscribe are we still friends? new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area (c) bull path media inc. ↑ back to top