skip to main content the diary of samuel pepys daily entries from the 17th century london diary menu the diary letters encyclopedia in-depth articles site news recent activity about this site the text faq annotation guidelines email, twitter & rss log in register search go about this site in 1660 samuel pepys, an increasingly-important 26 year-old civil servant in london, began writing his diary. he stopped a decade later. this site contains the full text of his diary, along with several letters sent or received by pepys, plus thousands of pages of further information about the people, places and things in his world. the diary entries were published on this site daily, in real time, from january 2003 until may 2012, with readers discussing events each day. from january 2013 the diary entries will again appear on the front page at the end of the day (london time), starting with 1 january 1660. this site is run by phil gyford. if you have questions about the site you can email me at phil@gyford.com. if you have questions about samuel pepys, the diary, or 17th century london you may be better off joining the discussion group at yahoo! groups and asking people there. supporting this site because i run this site in my free time several people have asked how they can donate money. while this is kind of them i don't ask for anything as the financial costs are negligible. the text for pepys' diary comes from project gutenberg, an effort to make a vast number of copyright-free texts available online. its work is conducted largely by volunteers, and you can support them via cheque/check, credit card or paypal by following their instructions. if you donate, do let them know you're doing so via pepysdiary.com. if you’d prefer not to donate to project gutenberg, you can buy me a gift via my amazon wishlist. donors many thanks to the following for their kind contributions: roger arbor, alan bedford, todd bernhardt, james b collins and his 'european civilization to 1789' class, diarist.com, peter easton, david gurliacci, louise hayes, gerry healy, laura k, jeannine kerwin, mary knight, william loughner, sari magaziner, peter mehlin, david nix, r rawlins, carole sargent, evelyn senior, sharon, john grahame simmons, glyn thomas, keith wright and others. (if you do not wish to be listed as a donor then let me know.) thanks extra special thanks to those who have contributed to the content and running of the site over the years. these include: jeannine kerwin (several in-depth articles, most of the diary summaries, and some encyclopedia texts); terry foreman (many corrections and suggestions to diary texts); max wainer (flagging more than 1600 broken annotations); alan anderson (many encyclopedia summaries); dirk van de putte (some story so far summaries); and others. thank you. latest site news full samuel pepys club interview 27 march 2020 samuel pepys and the virus 25 march 2020 interview in the samuel pepys club newsletter 7 march 2020 email discussion group has moved 13 november 2019 one of samuel's plates at the museum of london 9 october 2019 latest site news full samuel pepys club interview 27 march 2020 samuel pepys and the virus 25 march 2020 email, twitter & mastodon receive diary entries by email daily join the pepys’ diary email discussion group follow in real time on twitter or on mastodon rss feeds diary entries encyclopedia topics in-depth articles site news posts about this site is run by phil gyford @philgyford on twitter more about this site