organic hat blog resources about us contact manchester, nh 603-397-3546 about us organic hat web group follow follow follow what is creativity? it’s the congealing of thoughts and actions into something new and tangible, and only once that happens is it easy to answer the question. find out more! combining your experience with our expertise. our philosophy is that simplicity is the best path for promoting small business and their websites on the web. and simplicity is what we offer, it’s our guiding north star. during the years you’ve owned or managed your business you’ve gained a tremendous amount of experience with the products and services you offer. you know more about your business then we do, and it’s that knowledge and experience that we want to combine with our web expertise to create a winning solution for marketing your business. 1. websites need to be simple and pass information to the users clearly. a website must answer user questions without complications and be easily found on the search engines and plainly understood. 2. marketing quite simply is talking with others about your ideas, products and services, and turning it into actionable information. communicating the information we’ve developed together in a simple manner, and doing so without using loud noise or deception. looking for a guide? whether your business has had a website for a while, or you’re new to showcasing your small business on the web. it’s always a good idea to have an experienced guide leading you through the twists and turns up the mountain of marketing and creating a website presence that’s successful. get started today get in touch by phone or email send us an email with a little about what you are looking for or give us a call and we’ll get back to you as quickly as a rock rolling down a mountainside. phone (603) 397-3546 email info@organichat.net blog @ organic hat sb-tips #8 (no title) privacy twitter google rss copyright 2019 - powered by organic hat manchester, new hampshire we use cookies to make the user experience better and do not share any collected info with 3rd parties.acceptx