skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides about the everywhereist aka geraldine deruiter just someone’s opinion “geraldine deruiter’s husband rand has a job that takes him around the world. after she was laid off from her job, she started tagging along with him and blogging their experiences at the everywhereist… she says she blogs to help rand remember where they’ve been and what they’ve seen. but this consistently clever site lets the rest of us go along for the ride too — even when the couple is just hanging out at home in seattle.” ~ time magazine, best blogs of 2011 geraldine’s official bio geraldine deruiter is an acclaimed author, world-renowned public speaker, and the voice behind the award-winning everywhereist blog. she finds it very difficult to be self-promotional, so she hopes that you understand how hard that last sentence was for her to write. (also, this is supposed to be in third person? that’s just weird.) while ostensibly a travel writer, geraldine also writes about dessert, feminism, and jeff goldblum’s entire filmography. time magazine described her work as “consistently clever” and the new york times said her writing was “dark and hilarious”. her blog has received accolades from the independent, forbes magazine, and the huffington post, because sometimes features editors get drunk. when not on the road with her long-suffering and infinitely patient husband, rand, geraldine can be found in seattle, usually fighting with people on the internet. press & accolades coverage how getting laid-off inspired one writer to travel the world mashable.com forms of identification: geraldine deruiter bbc.com q & a with geraldine deruiter of everywhereist.com conde nast traveler escape artist q&a: geraldine deruiter of the everywhereist blog paste magazine laid-off copywriter honored for travel blog everywhereist geekwire.com blog: my way of fighting (translated from russia) f5 magazine are you a window flier or an aisle seater? cnn.com 10 airport secrets that only insiders know oprah.com help! i have motion sickness us news & world report the new york times accolades time magazine’s top 25 blogs of 2011 (proof that god occasionally gets drunk.) the independent's 50 best travel websites the independent viator's top 25 travel blogs viator.com huffington post's top travel blogs of 2014 huffingtonpost.com forbes magazine's 100 best websites for women 2013 forbes.com forbes magazine's 100 best websites for women 2012 forbes.com forbes magazine's top 10 lifestyle sites for women forbes.com u.s. city traveler's top 12 most influential travel bloggers us city traveler off-track planet's top travel bloggers of 2013 off-track planet skyscanner's blog of the week skyscanner.net the best new and not-so-new travel blogs of 2012 almostfearless.com videos inspired by the everywhereist fyi.tv, 2014 moztalk: how to make your audience fall in love (with your blog!) moztalk blogger edition seattle ignite: sharing personal news online seattle ignite inbound 2017: how to succeed at failing without really trying inbound 2017 world domination summit keynote: combating online harassment podcasts finding new beginnings in our endings unmistakable creative podcast eat your words podcast: all over the place the different minds podcast with mike mcgrail contact if you would like geraldine to speak at your event, or you wish to cast her in your new reality tv show about cupcakes, you can contact her directly at deenie@gmail.com. she is also available for interviews or to answer questions for book clubs reading her memoir. geraldine is represented by the amazing zoe sandler at icm. if you have a really big, fancy inquiry, zoe will be involved. (do not contact geraldine with any of the following: press releases, freebie offers, guest post requests, requests to buy links/ad space.) you can also find her on the usual suspects of social media: twitter, facebook, and google+. these are a few of my favorite things: gluten intersectional feminism jeff goldblum teaching children to cuss cupcakes star trek pets who think they're people rand more people & stuff i like the book all over the place available for pre-order now i wrote a book about getting lost and finding yourself and also peeing on things when you are angry. if you like twilight, you will probably hate my book. pre-order now! join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status