close mobile menu search this website home start here about resources podcast blog health beauty mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel reviews recipes beef recipes breakfast recipes condiment recipes dessert recipes drink recipes pork recipes poultry recipes salad recipes seafood recipes side dish recipes snack recipes soup & stew recipes newsletter shop menu skip to right header navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer simple answers for healthier families about start here resources podcast blog beauty health mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel recipes reviews shop search you are here: home » about wellness mama about wellness mama wellnessmama.com is an online resource for women and moms who want to live a healthier life. our founder, katie, along with a team of researchers and medical advisors, analyze a wide variety of health, parenting, and natural living topics and summarize the information in a clear and usable way. our goal is to present practical tips, real food recipes, diy beauty instructions, green cleaning tutorials, natural remedies, and other information to make your life better. the wellness mama team the team behind wellness mama is dedicated to providing up-to-date practical information and resources for moms. these resources are fact-checked by our editorial team and reviewed by our medical advisors for accuracy. katie wells, founder and chief wellness mama katie wells, ctnc, mchc, who thinks most bios are pretty boring, wants to live in a world where laundry folds itself, moms get to wear the superhero costumes they’ve already earned, and our kids never have to deal with the health problems our world is currently facing. a mom of six with a background in journalism, she took health into her own hands and started researching to find answers to her own health struggles. her research turned into a blog and podcast that turned into an amazing community (starring you!). if katie was writing this, she wouldn’t tell you that she’s written over 1,500 blog posts, 3 books, and was named one of the 100 most influential people in health and wellness. or that she’s been called a thought leader for the current generations of moms. when she’s not reading medical journals, creating new recipes, or recording podcasts, you can find her somewhere outside in the sun with her husband (who she met walking across the country one summer in college) and six kids or undertaking some diy remodeling project that inevitably takes twice as long as it was supposed to. obligatory additional unrelated randomness: doula, speed-reader, hates bananas, loves baseball, can’t sing, scuba-diver, intj, highly experienced in answering the question, “why.” wellness mama editorial team the wellness mama editorial team fact checks each article before it is published. our team is like family, and our goal is to make this website a welcoming place for community and support. shelly, director of all shenanigans shelly knew from a young age that she loved having order and organization and if she would admit it, she would tell you that she loved playing “office” as a child. this, coupled with her addiction to planners and calendars, has led her to her dream job of keeping all moving pieces in their place, and making sure that not a task is left undone. shelly was a part of the first online classes at the institute for integrative nutrition in 2010 and has had a love of nutrition and helping others ever since. when not working, you’ll most likely find shelly at a good coffee shop with her husband, watching grey’s anatomy or spending weekends camped out at the baseball fields watching her teenage son play. carrie, managing editor a wellness mama reader since the very first post, carrie has been telling her family “katie made me do it” for the last 10 years. she took the leap from a 15-year career in academic book publishing to editing deodorant recipes and never looked back. carrie works with our medical review team and supporting editorial staff to make sure wellness mama articles are up to snuff (and fun to read besides). when not typing furiously on her laptop, carrie is most gloriously happy in the garden and (not so secretly) hopes her husband quits his day job to start a family farm. while she waits, she’s often caught talking to her backyard chickens and calling her detached garage “a barn.” writing her own book, living abroad, and worldschooling as a family are on her bucket list (in no particular order). until then, she promises always to be up for a moms’ night out and seize any adventure that comes her way. olivia, community cheerleader and social{media}ite if you sat down with olivia over a cup of coffee, she would ask you how your heart is doing while slipping you a piece of organic dark chocolate. you would discuss your families, your latest book or netflix binge, what’s making you happy, and what’s challenging you. she would tell you that you’re doing a great job. in the wellness mama family, she makes sure you never miss out on wellness mama posts or news via social media, answers your emails (say hi!), helps out creatively, and puts any com-box jerks in timeout. olivia would want you to know that her favorite season is fall, she loves exploring with her kids and husband, she doesn’t like fish (although she’s working on it), and she’s a type-a isfj melancholic-choleric obliger (for you personality junkies). seth, master of tech and optimizer of all the things as the chief technical officer, seth is the ninja that keeps the site running and optimized (and fixes it when the rest of us accidentally break something). he also happens to be katie’s husband and (usually) willing test subject for all of the weird biohacky things they test in the name of health. we’re pretty sure he may be part fish, as when he’s not working, you’ll often find him in some type of water: ocean, river, pool, cold plunge, or attempting a new water sport. he infuses baseball references, movie quotes, and occasional four-letter words into our team culture. connoisseur of jeeps, natural wines, tequila, and marketing advice, his preferred work uniform is a swimsuit (and he considers a neck tie a type of medieval torture device). all of his other hobbies and work experience are classified or nsfw. suzanne, recipe editor suzanne received a bachelor’s degree in nutrition and dietetics before becoming a mom. now she uses all her skills and knowledge to teach her children how to choose healthy foods and drinks. she always chuckles quietly when she hears her toddlers tell people that they can’t drink pop because it has caffeine or that they have to eat some dinner before they can have dessert. at wellness mama, suzanne works on all the posts that have to do with food. she enjoys keeping the recipes and nutrition information in them organized, standardized, up-to-date, and easy to follow. when suzanne has free time she enjoys playing euro-style board games and spending time outside with her family. she loves to camp, attempt to garden (through trial and error), and relax on the beach. medical review & advisory board to ensure all of our articles are of the highest quality, referenced and fact-checked, we work with an amazing group of doctors and medical advisors. you’ll see a section indicating that a post has been medically reviewed on many of our health related posts. click here to view our medical review board and list of advisers. wellness mama editorial guidelines wellnessmama.com adheres to strict editorial guidelines and every post is reviewed for accuracy by our editorial and medical review team as part of our commitment to creating the highest quality information for women and moms online. for over 10 years, wellnessmama.com has established itself as one of the most highly-trusted and evidenced-based health and wellness websites for women and moms. with over 6 million visitors per month, this is also one of the largest online communities for women. why the name “wellness mama?” it all started over a decade ago when katie’s first son was born. sitting in the doctors office at her follow-up visit, she read in a magazine that was sitting on the side table that: …for the first time in centuries, the current generation of children will have a shorter life expectancy than their parents… that was a pivotal moment for her as she was holding her perfect newborn and reading about how his generation would face higher rates of cancer, heart disease, autoimmune disease and other many other health problems. that day, her life changed and katie decided to work to change that statistic. it’s been a long journey, through five more pregnancies, learning she had thyroid disease and working to find answers, and completely changing her family’s lifestyle from eating pasta and using chemical cleaners to real food and natural homemade products. her goal, and the goal of wellness mama, is to help make the transition to living naturally easier for you and to share the journey (since we’re all always learning and growing). note from katie: i’m not a doctor, a lawyer or a “health guru” (that’s why i have medical advisors!), i’m just a mom who is super passionate about creating a healthy life for my family, and i’m guessing you’re a lot like me. in fact, i compiled a checklist of the things i wish i’d known when i first started, the cliff notes of natural living, in a simple guide, and i’d love to give it to you. just enter your email address here and i’ll send it your way. don’t worry- i hate spam more than you, so you can unsubscribe at any time. are you just a mom? here’s the thing, i can’t change the health of the world alone, but i’m absolutely convinced that as a group, women and moms can. here’s why- we, as women and mothers have tremendous power. not only are we raising the next generation, feeding them, teaching them, etc but we control the majority of food dollars spent around the world. so my goal is to help every mom become a “wellness mama” so that together, we can create lasting change. i often get asked, “do you work or are you just a mom?” and this question frustrates me, because regardless of where we work or our official job descriptions, every woman, every mother, works incredibly hard. and because being “just a mom” is more than enough! i hope to make being a mom just a little easier for you. at wellnessmama.com you’ll find all of my best real food recipes, natural living and cleaning tutorials, beauty recipes and health hacks with natural ingredients, natural remedies, and so much more. sometimes things get silly or really nerdy, but we’ll always keep things practical and usable. you’ll learn how to make the most effective lotion ever in bar form, how to infuse magnesium into your lotion for better sleep, 101 ways to use coconut oil and so much more. most of the time, i stick to real food, natural living, beauty products and natural remedies, but if we become friends on facebook or instagram, you’ll also hear occasionally about my life with six kids, what i do in my free time, the best sports team ever, and my totally normal hobbies like jujutsu, and reading medical journals. but enough about me, i want to know about you! come join the amazing community around here, say hi in the comments of a post that looks interesting to you and tell me about how you ended up here! warmly, katie footer sitemap start here comment policy affiliate disclosure newsletter privacy policy terms of service full disclaimer promo guidelines contact site footer the information on this website has not been evaluated by the fda and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease. by accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the terms of service, full disclaimer, privacy policy, affiliate disclosure, and comment policy. content may not be reproduced in any form. ads provided by cafemedia family & parenting network. displayed ads do not constitute endorsement or recommendation by wellness mama. copyright © 2006–2020 wellness mama® · all rights reserved · sitemap