skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about about me hey! my name is jamie. makeawebsitehub.com was built to help people get started with building a website or blog so they can help fund their lifestyle. so many people work their fingers to the bone to earn a living, working 40+ hours a week, never seeing their kids grow up and never being able to afford the good things in life. i was there. 27 years old and working in a dead end job, trying to support my girlfriend and our new born baby daughter, elsa. i hardly saw them. only on a sunday when i had a day off, was i able to spend some valuable time with my young family. i was always into web design and got myself a few freelance jobs setting up blogs and creating content for small local business. it was then i realised that i could make a lot of money through blogging. as the blog building orders rolled in, just from recommendations from previous clients, i had enough money to start building my own blogs and begin making some serious cash. i cover a wide variety of topics from blogging basics to more advanced techniques such as getting more traffic or making more money from your blog. if you have wanted to start a blog for sometime but just did not know where to start or how to start then you are in the right place. all of the information on my blog and newsletter is available to you for free. a few sites i’ve been featured on… about jamie my name is jamie spencer, i am 34 years old and live in a town called kendal in cumbria, england with my wife emily and my daughter elsa. it’s a beautiful part of the world and a place i can truly call home. i have spent the past few years building blogs and making an income from them so i can enjoy living in the countryside where i can enjoy lots of my favourite hobbies and not have to worry about living in a city with lots of traffic and that hectic way of life. i also have 2 dogs called max and grace, who i take out for walks everyday. not sure who’s walking who if i’m honest. my blog is built on wordpress (self-hosted). i currently use bridge, a premium wordpress theme. for blog hosting, i recommend bluehost. it is easy-to-use, reliable, and inexpensive. it also has superb, 24-7 support. it is the only hosting service i personally recommend. plus you get a free domain when you sign up. use my link to get hosting for just $2.95 per month. you can also follow me on twitter, facebook or the dots. start a money making blog today - free email course i'll show you how to start a blog in just 7 days in this free email course, i will show you how to create a blog easily. - learn to set up your blog in minutes - make your first dollar with your blog - attract your first readers sign up - start your journey name email contact me have a question about starting a blog? want to interview me for your own blog? want to discuss writing on makeawebsitehub.com? use the contact form below and i will get back to you as quickly as possible your name (required) your email (required) subject your message best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub