about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ about cookie and kate find us on instagram, facebook, pinterest & youtube. welcome! i’m happy you’re here. you can call me kate, which is one of many nicknames, or kathryne, which is my full first name. either way, i’m a self-taught photographer and cook from oklahoma. i started this blog in 2010 and named it after my canine sidekick, cookie. now, we live in kansas city and work on this blog full-time. i love my job! you should know that i’m totally obsessed with food. i daydream about new recipes. i devour cookbooks (i even wrote my own). i read up on food policy and nutrition. i love photographing food and hope my photos inspire you to step into the kitchen to cook a delicious, healthy meal. above all, i love eating food, especially while in the presence of good company. good food in good company—does it get any better than that? i believe that cooking should be fun and recipes, flexible. i choose not to cook meat, so all of the recipes on cookie and kate are vegetarian. i believe in eating whole foods, which are foods that are as close to their source as possible. i’m also an avid supporter of the occasional indulgence, and i laugh with friends over drinks as often as possible. this blog is all about celebrating good food—real, sustainable food that delights the senses and nourishes the body. about cookie cookie is a jaunty spotted mutt who makes friends everywhere she goes. she is my eager four-legged assistant, my chief crumb catcher and the best companion a girl could ask for. i adopted cookie in the summer of 2009. she came with her name and nothing more. whether she was named for being one smart cookie, or for looking like cookies and cream, the name suits her well. after five years of referring to cookie as a “mystery mutt,” i finally caved and ordered a dna test. my beloved, one-of-a-kind pup is half schipperke and half dachshund/australian koolie mix. frequently asked questions where can i buy your cookbook? my cookbook, love real food, can be purchased online at amazon, barnes & noble, bam!, indiebound, and indigo. digital editions of the book are available for purchase and download at ibooks and amazon. look for the book in your local bookstore or barnes & noble. more book details here. what kind of camera do you use? i use a nikon z6 with a nikkor z 50mm lens. check out my food photography tips for more details. do you have any tips for new bloggers? check out my top 20 tips for food blogging and how to start a food blog, which includes design and web hosting tips. can i publish your photos or recipes on my blog/website? thank you for asking. please refer to my photo and recipe policy for details. get in touch! please contact me here or comment below! you’re also welcome to check out my press page for interviews and other features. comments joyce january 6, 2020 kate (and cookie), i’m sad it took me so long to find your blog, but glad i finally did! i’m not ready to abandon meat, and am a “perimeter” shopper, but i try to make at least half my meals vegetarian. however, it isn’t always easy to find really tasty ones, but your blog has changed all that. i’ve turned to the moosewood cookbook, and then found a blog from a lady whose focus is on low-carb and keto recipes, many of them are vegetarian, but i don’t believe in the keto diets, and we do need carbs (plenty available in veggies). i believe in eating all things in moderation. i briefly tried the la diet (years ago), which allowed all the rare beef, bacon and cheese you wanted. uh, no. i’ve come to dislike burgers and fries, or fried foods; it’s not some philosophical quest, and i’m not feeling self-righteous – i just don’t enjoy that food any more. your blog features things that are just totally tasty! i love to eat tasty meals that are healthy as well. i praised your recipe for super simple marinara sauce. it truly is super simple, and i usually have the ingredients on-hand. glad i found your blog, and see so many things i want to try! reply kate january 9, 2020 i’m happy you found it too! i hope you love it. reply kim january 17, 2020 i totally agree with joyce. refined carbohydrates are not my freinds… we eat meat but i tend to think of it as a “side dish” with the veggies as the main course. vegetables taste 10 times better when homegrown. they’re easy to grow, even in a container on the patio. if you’re yard has a fence it’s fun to grow vining vegetables there. cookie and kate is a great place to find healthy recipes that are easy, delicious and don’t cost a lot. i’ve made many recipes found on line but kate’s blog has encouraged me to post a comment for the first time. as a grandma, gardener and cook i know necessity is truly the mother of invention and tweak all kinds of recipes if i don’t have the exact ingredients. happy 2020. grace, peace and health to all! reply dan march 14, 2020 where in oklahoma are you from? i’m from miami. reply kate march 16, 2020 hey dan! is your question for me? i grew up in edmond, for the most part, and went to ou! denise davis january 11, 2020 baba ganoush was excellent! smoked paprika was tasty and pretty addition. i used good potato masher on the eggplant and it worked well in preparation and it kept the rustic vs. food processor texture. just discovered blog. looking forward to newsletter. reply mary lee copp january 17, 2020 kate, is there a way to make a file of my favorite recipes and save it to your site? i’m a huge fan! m l reply kate january 17, 2020 hi mary! i don’t have a function like that on my blog. you can always bookmark your recipes in your browser. or create a pinterest board of them! i hope this helps! reply lynn hayes january 25, 2020 i save your recipes to evernote with a special tag so i can always find them easily. reply kate january 27, 2020 i love that idea! reply darcell january 17, 2020 hi! i just came across your blog a couple days ago! my stomach is sensitive so aside from my being unable to eat gluten, i want to eat gaper and healthier. i’ve already made the mango burrito bowl and it’s absolutely delicious and beautiful! i do also downloaded your app and have created 3 cookbooks! your app is smart like your recipes! all i can say is thank you! my husband and i look forward to cooking your recipes together! reply emma january 18, 2020 cookie is so effing adorable i feel like i’m going to burst into tears while my chest simultaneously bursts with love. reply kate january 23, 2020 thank you, emma! reply beth blacksin january 25, 2020 hi: im very happy i found your blog while searching for a couple of soup recipes. im a huge mark bittman fan, but it is great to have options. thanks for posting all the healthy recipes. reply lois cudmore january 27, 2020 hello kate….i am a huge fan! my sister got me onto your granola about a year ago and i make it constantly as my husband eats it all! anyhow everyone in our family…my sisters etc. all love your granola recipe! i don’t stir half way through and it is perfect every time!…just made another batch! i made your vegetarian chili which i made last weekend and then again this weekend…i look forward to making tons more of your recipes…i have been vegetarian for over 40 years so it is great to see all of your recipes….kale /farro salad next! thank you…also a dog lover and cookie is pretty cute! reply kate january 28, 2020 you’re so sweet! thank you for your kind comment, lois. reply liz streithorst january 31, 2020 i know dogs pure bred dogs.. it is a necessity for my job although all my 6 are just mixed breed dogs i see koolie or blue healer which would be far more likely. i see no schipperke and half dachshund in your dog. nice dog, though. you can disagree with an expert’s eye in favor of the scientific test it you choose, but check around with serious dog people and you will find out the those genetic test’s are notoriously unreliable. btw, i love your tabbouleh recipee!!! reply kate february 26, 2020 hi liz! she’s 50% purebred schipperke and part koolie/dachshund. i actually wondered if cookie was part schipperke before the test results came back, so i believe it. she looks quite a bit like one from her side profile (fluffy slightly curved-back tail, longer fur around her neck) and behaves like one, too (ultra curious and ornery, runs out the door and doesn’t come back—it’s terrifying). if you met her, i think you’d see it. :) reply liz streithorst february 26, 2020 the koolie is very similar to the blue heeler. i wish i could see a side shot of her. but it really doesn’t matter. the fact that she is a good pet for you is what most matters. reply amanda february 5, 2020 hi kate! i just wanted to let you know that i made your roasted broccoli, bell pepper, & tofu bowl w/ peanut sauce from your cookbook last week. my entire family loved it! we once had a peanut sauce at a restaurant that put us off for years, but wow, i am so glad i tried yours. definitely going in the dinner rotation. thanks so much for all of your awesome vegetarian recipes – your blog and cookbook has become my go-to as our diet has transitioned. so many are vegan, but we love that you include recipes with cheese and eggs, since we still eat those too! reply kate february 5, 2020 i love to hear that, amanda! thank you for sharing. reply kelly hall february 5, 2020 kate, like everyone else i just stumbled onto your site looking for a simple pimento cheese recipe. i have a dog rescue and transition all my dogs to real food. pimento cheese (store bought) is one thing i use as a treat on a zucchini ring or apple. but i go through a lot. so i decided it’s time to make my own. thank you for the simple recipe. it looks delicious and i will make a few dog friendly adjustments. i look forward to making it this weekend as well as trying some of your other recipes. cookie is adorable! what a great kitchen helper. reply kate february 5, 2020 thank you, kelly! i’m happy to hear you are loving the blog. reply monica february 5, 2020 hi kate! i stumbled onto your site searching for a recipe for enchilada sauce. my son’s birthday dinner request was vegetable enchiladas and i wanted to make the sauce from scratch rather than using a jar. wow! it was a hit! he loved it and i was so happy he had a nice birthday dinner. i reduced the amount of chili powder slightly as i’m a wimp and not a fan of super spicy food, and it turned out perfectly. as a vegetarian for over 25 years, i also love that your recipes don’t include animal flesh. thanks again! reply kate february 6, 2020 i’m happy you stumbled and loved what you came across, monica! reply chiara february 6, 2020 hi kate! i found your blog while i was searching for a basic vinaigrette (only oil, vinegar, and some spices). then, i got interested in and looked through your other recipes. i finally ended up here and read your ’about’ text – until then, i haven’t even realised that all your recipes are vegetarian. probably because everything sounds and looks so delicious! i want to diminish my consumption of meat in the future, and now i have a lot of ideas to do so. after six months of travelling in canada and the us (mostly without a proper kitchen), i’m eager to try them as soon as i’m back in switzerland. awesome job! reply kate february 12, 2020 thank you for your kind words, chiara! i appreciate it. reply maura february 13, 2020 every time i need a recipe, i find you. just made your spaghetti squash and i want to try your squash burrito bowl next time. but it’s also so good plain, i had to eat it fresh from the oven. thank you for your blog! reply kate february 15, 2020 oh my goodness! another kathryne! i have never come across another kathryne who spells her name the same way i do. i just discovered your blog and have enjoyed browsing around. reply kds february 15, 2020 wow! i just found your blog when looking for a huevos rancheros recipe. i am just learning how to cook at 46 years young and your blog was just what i needed before i knew what i was looking for! i’m stoked! thank you! reply lindsey h. february 15, 2020 hello kate! i’ve been a fan of your recipes for quite some time, but what has finally motivated me to abandon my anonymity & make a post is this: i just made your curried coconut quinoa & greens w/roasted cauliflower recipe (which i saved on my pinterest ages & ages ago), and i think i’m in love. legitimately. that dish turned my whole day around! it really is a bright spot in the middle of a bleak northern michigan winter, let me tell you. so thank you so much for doing what you do! my pups (tonka & gunner) and i will keep on tuning in. :) pets & snuggles to cookie!! reply giridhar marichetty february 19, 2020 namaste kate, i am indian and new country,but foodie and like to cook n try different recipes. i found my ultimate guide to try all american style cooking. wonderful presentation and cooking style. i like every recipe you prepare. actually when i am not busy in work like to watch you videos. loved it really and helps bachelors like me. love you.. reply vl february 20, 2020 i just prepared the quinoa-stuffed sweet potato recipe from your cookbook. it was so very good! love your cookbook and website. reply elaine b february 28, 2020 decided on lentil marinara for lunch and was so happy to find your recipe. i made a baked “pasta” using steamed spaghetti squash layered with lentil marinara with a little ricotta on top. delicious! we love dogs too! and it is sadly a schipperke trait to run out the door, when not charmingly sharing breakfast with the cat while seated in chairs around the table. or leaping high in the air like a ballerina.thank you for your lovely blog. reply mercedes march 7, 2020 hola kate, sabes si esta traducido tu libro en castellano? me gusta lo que veo pero no veo traducción. gracias reply kate march 10, 2020 hi mercedes, i’m sorry, i don’t believe the book has been translated into spanish. just german, for now. all my best! reply michelle march 13, 2020 hi kate- i’m trying to convert my midwest family of 4 to a vegetarian diet. i learned of your new cookbook on amazon & purchased it—-it grabbed my attention because the gorgeous photos (great photos are a must for me) & that you’re a midwest girl :) i’m now following your blog & committed to making 2 new recipes a week from your book & blog. my husband & 2 teens are loving your recipes!!! i wasn’t sure i could make the switch for my family, but thanks to your wonderful combinations, we are all on board now!!! i’ve had many cookbooks thru the years—yours is truly the most organized, easy to follow, beautiful book i’ve purchased. thank you & keep up the great work! (your herbaceous chickpea salad is a weekly staple in my frig ;) reply jody march 20, 2020 kate & cookie, thank you for the wonderful receipes. i, too, hate that it took me so long to find your site. i am thrilled that i’ve found it! there are so many wonderful receipes – and vegetarian. as a pescetarian for several years, it’s so hard to find great receipes that do not include (land-bound) meat. i couldn’t give up fish – one word: sushi. as a north carolina gentleman, i do miss bacon. :( again, i just wanted to express my gratitude for your hard work. your passion for food (and for cookie) are evident in your work. jc ps – i’m definitely going to check out the cookbook… reply karin krikorian march 24, 2020 this dip is delicious. perfect use of my avocados when i am stuck in the house with no tomatoes on hand for guacamole. reply « older comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}