menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 about the art of manliness is a one-stop resource for actionable advice that covers every aspect of a man’s life: character, career, relationships, fitness, style, skills, and much more. through weekly podcasts and articles, aom tackles subjects from the philosophical and serious to the practical and fun. aom differentiates itself from other men’s lifestyle media outlets in providing content that is intelligent, thoughtful, thorough, eminently useful, and clickbait-free. the art of manliness is also the strenuous life — an online/offline program that helps men directly implement the habits, disciplines, and skills we cover on aom into their lives. like a scouting program for grown men, tsl offers a structure that facilitates a man’s growth in body, mind, and spirit. the mission of aom is to get men not only reading and listening to our content, but ultimately implementing what they learn into their lives; through our articles, podcasts, books, and programs, aom aims to help men, as theodore roosevelt put it, “get action.” we seek to help men grow up well, reach their potential, become better friends, mentors, husbands, fathers, and citizens, and live a life of eudamonia — skill, flourishing, excellence, and virtue. our editors and contributors editors brett and kate mckay brett mckay founded the art of manliness in 2008 and has grown it into the largest independent men’s interest magazine on the web. brett grew up in edmond, ok, a suburb of oklahoma city, and attended the university of oklahoma. he took a break in college to live in tijuana, mexico for two years doing service. after graduating with a ba in letters, he then went on to pursue his lifelong goal of going to law school. while attending the university of tulsa college of law, brett started the art of manliness as something fun to do in his spare time. when aom quickly and unexpectedly took off, brett brought on his wife, kate mckay, to help. kate grew up in tulsa, ok and graduated from byu with a ba in history in 2003. she then spent a year in san francisco volunteering with americorps. in 2006 she received her masters in religion from oklahoma city university. she has taught american history and humanities at tulsa community college. the mckays have two adorable children: gus, age 8, and scout, 5. together they run aom from its headquarters in tulsa, ok. jeremy anderberg jeremy anderberg joined our team full-time in february 2013 and is aom’s jack-of-all-trades. he edits our articles, writes, manages our projects, and produces our podcast. he went to drake university in des moines, iowa and received degrees in both journalism and religious studies. jeremy and his wife are the parents of two children, live in denver, colorado (but will always be midwesterners at heart), and share a love of fresh coffee, hiking in the mountains, and a good book. contributors antonio centeno is the owner of real men real style. tony is aom’s resident fashion expert and writes articles on classic men’s style. ted slampyak provides all the fantastic illustrations on aom. ted is a freelance illustrator with over twenty years of professional experience in storyboards, comic strips and books, and spot illustrations for magazines, posters and events. ted lives in bernalillo, new mexico, with his wife, designer and illustrator jennifer kinyak, and their two kids. samples of his work can be found at http://www.storytellersworkshop.com. matt moore is a nashville, tn based singer/songwriter and freelance food writer. he is the author of the book have her over for dinner; a gentleman’s guide to classic, simple meals which was named by the new york times as one of the year’s best cookbooks. other interests include fly fishing, running marathons, and drinking cold beers with friends and strangers. never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy