home politics cltv mediabites search this site: search login | register username: * password: * forgot password? remember my login on this computer about us crooks and liars is an award-winning site for progressive news and media criticism. started and owned by john amato in 2004, crooksandliars.com was the first website to feature audio and video online, revolutionizing how political news is consumed and distributed on the internet. john amato - publisher and founder follow john on twitter john amato is a professional musician who played or recorded with duran duran, ringo starr, the knack, ronnie montrose, glenn hughes, john taylor and many more. he has been a guest at the white house and interviewed many progressive politicians. his articles have been featured at the huffington post, and he has been a featured panelist and guest on msnbc, al jazeera, and the young turks. john is also a former board member of the la press club. john co-authored over the cliff: how obama's election drove the american right insane with former managing editor david neiwert. karoli kuns - managing editor follow karoli on twitter karoli has been with crooks and liars since 2010, when she joined the site to cover education and health policy. in addition to her work here, you can find her articles about dark money at the washington spectator and rewire.news. her work has also been featured in anthologies of progressive writers. karoli is co-host of the momocrats podcast, a weekly show featuring interviews with women in politics and policy. before coming to c&l, karoli worked with cnn and webmd to develop and create online communities and interactive content. frances langum - associate editor follow fran on twitter fran has been a part of the c&l team since 2007. in addition to her duties as associate editor of crooks and liars, fran is the executive producer of the professional left podcast. fran has both a degree in education, concentrating in us history and social studies, and a master's degree in theological studies from harvard divinity school. jamie holly - webmaster/developer follow jamie on twitter jamie holly has been handling the development and infrastructure that powers crooks and liars since 2005. he started programming back in the early 80's and hasn't stopped. as the owner of hollyit, jamie has handled other large sites such as thom hartmann and is a devout drupal and open source evangelist. he's also an avid photographer and political junky. latest fox and friends pretends trump is sympathetic to ny's need for ventilators. ainsley earhardt completely re-words dear leader's response to gov. cuomo's plea for 30,000 ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by aliza worthington trump 'doesn't believe' we don't need so many ventilators good to know, stable genius! mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump admits his 'issues' with michigan's woman governor are affecting covid aid what the hell, donald. grow up and do your job. mar 27, 2020 by john amato trump's 'easter' schedule is all about the brunch money of course trump's hotels have a profit center around the after-church easter buffets. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum jimmy kimmel interviews joe biden about the coronavirus crisis "speed matters," biden said about trump's response. mar 27, 2020 by susie madrak view all » latest from cltv governor cuomo's henry v speech: 'we will tell our grandchildren and shed a tear' andrew cuomo speaks to new york national guard troops in a speech that will long be remembered. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum fox & friends revisionist history of trump's denial that new york needs ventilators fox & friends lies about what trump said just the night before with sean hannity about new york's need for ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by heather trump to hannity: 'i don't believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators' "you know, you go to major hospitals, sometimes they have 2 ventilators." says stable genius. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump whines to hannity about governor whitmer of course the strong woman governor is a problem for donald. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum tucker carlson attacks the media for reporting on the dangers of trump promoting untested covid-19 treatments fox's tucker carlson goes after the media for daring to report on trump's dangerous rhetoric promoting experimental coronavirus treatments. mar 27, 2020 by heather visit cltv » stay connected facebook twitter flipboard feeds daily newsletter our daily top picks right to your inbox email name name="b_1b79560977ef0d50a412db2c8_d4904be7bc" tabindex="-1" value=""> staff editor & publisher john amato managing editor karoli kuns associate editors aliza worthington frances langum heather nicole belle susie madrak contributors chris capper li... dale merrill david ed scarce jenn budd newshound ellen red painter webmaster jamie support c&l or by snail mail: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 ©2020 crooks and liars footer about us feeds contact terms of service privacy dmca search this site: search home cltv politics media bites entertainment activism sports tech green business yesteryear misc