skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me about drew hello! my name is drew binsky. i’ve been to 189 countries since 2012, and i work as a full-time video maker (@drewbinsky® videos), travel blogger and content creator with more than 5 million social media followers and over 1 billion video views. i am also a 5-handicap golfer and a 2x guinness world record holder. **if you’re a more visual person, skip to the end of this post to watch my life story explained in 3 minutes** i grew up in sunny scottsdale, arizona and graduated from the university of wisconsin-madison, with a double-major in economics and entrepreneurship. i am obsessed with my college, and i wouldn’t be where i am today if i went to any other school. go badgers! the travel bug first hit me when i studied abroad in prague during my junior year of college (jan – may 2012). after having an incredible semester of living in europe and traveling to 20+ countries, i knew i wanted to make a career out of traveling. two months after graduating college, i moved to south korea to become an english teacher. when i was accepted for the job, i knew nothing about teaching (90% of my college classes were business related), but i saw teaching overseas as a great opportunity to live and work abroad. and it surely was! i neglected getting a corporate job and following “the american dream,” because it just wasn’t for me. click here to learn more about how you can teach english in korea. from the moment i stepped off the plane in seoul, i was instantly hooked. it was my first time in asia, and i was already in love with the foreign sights, smells and feels. during my 18 months living in korea, i started my first travel blog – the hungry partier – which was a place for me to document my crazy travel experiences and party stories around the world. i was determined to grow a global audience from day 1, spending 40+ hours per week writing blog posts, networking with other bloggers and growing my social media channels from the ground up. after 3 years of hard work and patience, i grew the hungry partier to 150k+ monthly readers and i had about 100k+ social media followers. however, as you can guess, the name “hungry partier” was giving off a bad impression of the person i truly am — so i rebranded myself as my name, drew binsky, and launched this blog in august 2016. it’s a more simplified, professional and personal website dedicated to sharing my lifestyle, travel tips and insights around the world. when i left korea (feb 2015), i set off to travel the world full-time, leveraging my blog and social media following to attract sponsors, which helped reduce my travel costs and keep me going. over the last few years, i’ve gone on a 3 month solo backpacking trip in india, visited every country in central/eastern europe, played golf in 19+ countries, visited antarctica, had an inspiring trip through the middle east including a 14 day trip to iran, traveled all over southeast asia & the pacific islands and i’ve lived in hanoi, manila and now i’m currently living in bangkok. here are some funny & crazy stories that’ve happened to me in foreign countries. and there is no end in sight. i am going to keep living my dream, and it feels like i’m just getting started. i am planning to visit every country on earth before turning 30. my ultimate goal for doing what i do is to help you get started with traveling. i want to be the #1 resource for you when you think about traveling, and i strive to be a role model for the high school/college kids who aspire to become travelers. therefore, i encourage you to reach out to me and ask any questions you wish! i make it a goal to respond to every email, instagram comment, tweet, snapchat chat, and facebook message that i get. i spent 2-3 hours everyday doing so. lastly, i’d like to invite you to join my travels on facebook, youtube, and instagram – where i share most of my content. if you’re still reading this, i want to say thank you for following my blog and travel advice — you guys mean the world to me. drew binsky if you’re a more visual person, here’s my life story in 3 minutes: how i got started traveling & making $$$ on the road the most common questions i get are: “how do you afford to travel?” and “how did you get started with traveling?” so i decided to share my entire life story in this 3 minute video, which will answer all of your questions about how i’ve turned a passion for travel into a profitable career. news breaker: i’m not rich, i don’t have rich parents, nor a huge savings account. i’m a regular kid from arizona, who has carved this lifestyle through very hard work and patience. i hope my story serves as an inspiration for you to follow your heart and chase your dreams, because you can do anything you set you mind to. like drew binsky on facebook for more travel videos music: audio autix posted by drew binsky on saturday, june 17, 2017 recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.