skip to main content facebook twitter youtube instagram got a tip? email or call (888) 847-9869 tmz.com home tmz search search search turn on browser notifications turn on browser notifications you have notifications blocked. unblock. you have notifications blocked news sports videos photos tours watch tmz got a tip? news sports videos photos tour shows tmz tmz live tmz sports contact privacy policy terms of use ad choices do not sell my personal information © 2020 ehm productions,inc. all rights reserved ✕ give us a call shoot us an email send us a text about tmz.com the term “thirty mile zone” originated in the 1960s, when due to the growth of location shoots, studios established a “thirty mile zone” to monitor rules for filming in hollywood. the center of the zone was the offices of the association of motion pictures and television producers, formerly at beverly and la cienega boulevards in los angeles. tmz reinvented the thirty mile zone and now serves as the internet’s premiere address for entertainment news. launched in 2005, tmz’s meteoric rise followed its exclusive on two of the biggest stories in entertainment: mel gibson's dui arrest and subsequent encounter with law enforcement, and michael richards' ill-fated trip to the laugh factory. tmz also broke the news of the breakup of britney spears and kevin federline's marriage. tmz altered the entertainment news landscape by changing the way the public gets its news. frequently referenced by various media, tmz is one of the most-cited entertainment news sources, utilized by national network and local newsgathering organizations across the country. in 2006, time magazine named tmz one of the coolest websites. newsweek named tmz the “breakout blog of 2007.” below you'll find some helpful links needed when contacting us. these links can be found at the bottom of tmz.com as well: have a correction or comment? tmz legal inquiry tmz media inquiry advertise on tmz.com search old news is old news! be first! get tmz breaking news sent right to your browser! subscribe maybe later about tmz about tmz.com privacy policy terms of use ad choices do not sell my personal information contact tmz contact us send a hot tip careers advertising inquiries media inquiries subscribe subscribe to tmz newsletter subscribe follow tmz apps download the tmz app on the apple app store download the tmz app on the google play store ©2020 ehm productions,inc. all rights reserved