squarespace logo account dashboard log out products create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain templates resources squarespace blog help guides webinars forum log in log out get started squarespace logo products templates resources log in account dashboard log out get started create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain squarespace blog → stories and solutions for the modern entrepreneur help guides → in-depth guides about the platform, our services, and how to get started webinars → free, online sessions where you’ll learn the basics and refine your squarespace skills forum → squarespace forum is an online community for squarespace users and professionals to discuss best practices and seek advice about us helping creative ideas succeed careers join our team meet squarespace our team powered by people locations our offices about us careers our team locations about us careers our team locations squarespace empowers people with creative ideas to succeed. our platform empowers millions of people — from individuals and local artists to entrepreneurs shaping the world’s most iconic businesses — to share their stories and create an impactful, stylish, and easy-to-manage online presence. 2003 squarespace was founded in anthony's dorm room at the university of maryland. 1,143 squarespace has grown to a team of more than 1,143 talented individuals. millions since launch, millions of websites have been created on the squarespace platform. recognition as a truly exceptional place to work in new york, we consistently win workplace recognition in our industry. 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 career-launching companies wealthfront 2017, 2018, 2019 top 10 new york-based employer brands hired 2017 50 best workplaces for parents fortune 2015, 2018, 2019 top workplaces the oregnonian 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 great place to work certified 2017, 2018, 2019 best places to work built in nyc our values be your own customer squarespace is built using squarespace. our entire business relies on the same platform and tools our customers pay us for. to that end, we build products and design experiences we would want for ourselves. empower individuals squarespace believes in the power of the individual to create great things. this is what our product enables and our marketing celebrates. design is not a luxury good design means coalescing hundreds of details into a package that is simple and beautiful. from the tools we create, to the experience our customers have, squarespace strives for excellence in design and iterates relentlessly in order to achieve that ideal. good work takes time we respect the creative process and pursue long term ideas without fear. we only release our products when we feel they meet our standards. optimize towards ideals while metrics are critical for tracking and testing the performance of our business, they are merely a reflection of our ideas and execution in the market. our values and ideals are our decision making guide. simplify locations new york city squarespace’s 150,000-square-foot headquarters are located in manhattan’s west village at 8 clarkson street. the office fills five floors, in addition to a dedicated lobby and roof deck, within the historic maltz building. the space was designed with a focus on creating collaborative working spaces for employees to solve problems together creatively. learn more portland squarespace portland opened in 2014 and is located in the spalding building on sw washington street in the downtown area of the city. just around the corner are gourmet food trucks, green spaces, and an array of cultural offerings. the 25,000-square-foot office houses one hub of our customer operations team. learn more dublin the squarespace dublin office was founded in 2013 as a hub for our customer operations team. the 24,589-square-foot office space is located at le pole house in dublin 8, close to antique quarter, the liberties, and original city walls. squarespace occupies four floors with a dedicated entrance, lobby, and roof terrace. learn more squarespace logo squarespace logo ↓ ↓ products ↓ website templates websites domains online stores point of sale extensions marketing tools email marketing scheduling stories professional email logo maker premium plan pricing feature list customers ↓ featured small businesses photographers bloggers artists restaurants musicians weddings students company ↓ about careers our brand press & media newsroom terms of service privacy policy contact us timeline imprint community ↓ help & support hire an expert forum webinars developer platform circle follow ↓ newsroom squarespace blog creative blog engineering blog service status instagram youtube linkedin facebook twitter