skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events about wordpress tavern is a site focused on all things wordpress. we also cover buddypress, bbpress, and any project under the automattic umbrella. wordpress tavern is a warm and inviting community where those interested in the software can hang out with fellow wordpressers to engage in enlightening discussions. be sure to subscribe to the rss feed because you won’t want to miss a days worth of information. history: on november 19th, 2008 kyle eslick of wphacks.com published a blog post where he offered the domain names wordpresstavern.com and wptavern.com for sale to his audience first. he then offered the domains for sale on various sites but no one purchased them. jeff chandler contacted kyle regarding the domains in december of 2008 and found out they were still available. after acquiring the domains in 2008, wptavern was launched on january 23rd, 2009. on june 8, 2011 jeff chandler announced that a new owner had purchased the site. one of the stipulations after the purchase was to remove all forms of advertising. it wasn’t until may 20th, 2013 when everyone was informed as to who the new owner was. it was none other than matt mullenweg. it’s important to note that jeff chandler was hired as an employee for audrey.co, matt mullenweg’s personal research and investment company with the primary duty of creating and managing content on wptavern. since then, the tavern has added more contributing writers to provide a wider spectrum of coverage. recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram