style design food travel relationships motherhood shop menu style design food travel relationships motherhood shop about a cup of jo joanna goddard my twin sister and i were born in paris in 1979, and grew up in france, england, and (mostly) the suburbs of michigan. after graduating from the university of michigan in 2001, i moved to new york city. i launched my career at cosmopolitan, where my editorial responsibilities included stopping good-looking men on the street and asking them funny questions. i also taught the lsat for kaplan on nights and weekends. after working for women’s magazines for three years, i became the editor-in-chief of bene, an award-winning quarterly about italian life and style. in 2008, i left bene to write for magazines, including glamour and new york. (two of my favorite stories were about new yorkers who wore only one color and nyc kids making bank with lemonade stands.) i launched and ran the relationships blog for glamour.com for two years, and also blogged for conde nast traveler and martha stewart living. during this time, i started a cup of jo as a weekend hobby, but after a few years, the site grew big enough to become my full-time job. (here’s a 2017 interview about blogging as a career.) cup of jo now has a team of writers and is known industry wide for its smart and deeply engaged readership (we love our readers). my husband, alex, and i live in brooklyn with our two chatty boys, toby and anton. please email me anytime at hello@cupofjo.com, or find me on instagram. if you’re interested in partnerships or advertising, please email maureen@cupofjo.com. thank you so much for reading. cup of jo regularly donates a percentage of profits to organizations we support, including raices, american red cross, greenpeace, save the children, the florence project and room to grow. meet the team caroline donofrio features writer caroline began her editorial career as a vogue intern, spending many hours in the fabled fashion closet. the shoes were glorious, but words were her true love, so she set her sights on publishing, working in the literary department at wme and as an editor at penguin random house. eventually, she jumped off the proverbial cliff to write. caroline has been a ghostwriter/consultant on a number of books by notable people. she is the author of a series of novels for children, and is at work on some (as yet secret) books for grownups. her work has been featured in places like vogue and elle. caroline lives in brooklyn with her boyfriend, her beloved dog and a rotating library that frequently threatens to overtake her apartment. say hi at caroline@cupofjo.com or find her on instagram. maureen heffernan senior partnerships & growth manager maureen is a fifth-generation seattleite who moved to new york in 2012 to pursue a career in digital marketing. since then she has helped grow online sales at companies like l’oreal and madewell, despite her parents’ skepticism that people would ever “buy stuff on the internet.” before joining a cup of jo in march 2019, she was driving traffic and maximizing roi on the performance marketing team at j.crew. maureen lives with her husband in brooklyn. you can reach out to her for partnership opportunities at maureen@cupofjo.com or say hello on instagram. kimberlee rhodes editorial assistant kim has loved sharing stories since childhood, and that has always stayed with her. while working as a receptionist and at a preschool during the day in her twenties, she started a blog at night. writing quickly became a beloved hobby and one week before her 30th birthday, she moved from tulsa, oklahoma, to new york to pursue a career in writing. after a rollercoaster first year in the city, and life as a barista, she has more stories to tell than ever. kim lives in brooklyn, and like all newbie new yorkers, still swoons at the sight of the manhattan skyline. say hi at kim@cupofjo.com and find her on instagram. christine han photographer christine first picked up a camera at age nine, but it wasn’t until many years after college that she realized that photography was it. she is now a commercial and editorial photographer specializing in lifestyle, portraits and food, with clients such as pepsi, shake shack, the kitchn and of course, cup of jo. her work has taken her all over the world, as far as india and uganda. when photographing people, especially women, she loves to draw out their inherent beauty and be at ease. she is always drawn to beautiful light and real connection. you can find her work here and on instagram. jenny rosenstrach contributing writer jenny is the creator of dinner: a love story, a blog based on the fundamental principle that cooking and sharing meals with the people you love — even if those people are less than 36 inches tall and aren’t eating what you’re cooking half the time — will infuse every day with meaning. she is the new york times bestselling author of three books about family dinner. her fourth book, the weekday vegetarians, will be published in 2021. jenny has written and edited for the new york times, the nyt book review, real simple, martha stewart and bon appétit, where she and her husband, andy ward wrote “the providers” column for six years. they live with their two daughters in dobbs ferry, new york. say hi at jenny@cupofjo.com or find her on instagram. praise for a cup of jo founded in january 2007, a cup of jo covers fashion, beauty, design, food, travel, relationships, motherhood and lifestyle. our readers are enthusiastic, style-conscious women who love shopping online and discovering new things. cup of jo receives over 5 million monthly page views and 1 million monthly unique visitors. one of the "top 10 lifestyle websites for women" and one of the "top 10 most influential parenting bloggers." “one of the 10 most influential personal style bloggers.” "i can tell you this: when cup of jo links to man repeller, our traffic spikes. it’s like the digital oprah effect." “the queen of the blogosphere.” “we love joanna for her tell-it-like-it-is posts on motherhood and her genius finds from around the web.” “there are more than a few devotees of joanna goddard's witty blog around here.” “goddard's keen editorial eye and singular literary voice have made her one of the most admired bloggers on the web.” "thoughtful, warmhearted and inclusive parenting advice." contact us we love getting emails from readers. please feel free to write to joanna at hello@cupofjo.com or caroline at caroline@cupofjo.com or kim at kim@cupofjo.com. if you have a question, you can also take a look at our faq page — the answer may be waiting there for you. advertising & partnerships we love working with brands and businesses and are happy to create partnerships of all shapes and sizes. please email maureen@cupofjo.com for our media kit. let’s hang out you can follow cup of jo on twitter, pinterest, facebook and instagram. we also send out a weekly email newsletter, and you can subscribe here if you’d like. about a cup of jo welcome! a cup of jo is a daily lifestyle site for women. we cover everything from fashion to culture to parenthood, and we strive to be authentic. as olive kitteridge said, "there's no such thing as a simple life." thank you for reading. read more style food design travel relationships motherhood about contact faq let's hang out