skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources about if you want information on pinching pennies, you're in the wrong place. my focus is on using resources to live the life you want. hopefully, you can use this site to learn about using your money and your time more — and reach your life goals. determine your priorities. use your time efficiently. put your money to work for you. spend according to your values. cultivate your finances so you can afford to live the life you want. about miranda marquit since earning my m.a. in journalism in 2005, i have worked from home as a freelance writer. i began writing about finances in 2006 after being offered a corporate blogging gig. soon, instead of writing primarily about science and technology, money became my focus. to that point, most of what i knew about money came from the mistakes i had made in the past. i began researching — and trying — smarter ways to manage my resources. the more i learned, the more i became interested in the idea of managing my time more efficiently as well. now, outsourcing is a big part of my money management strategy. i enjoy the journey, and i love writing for several financial blogs. and i like to think that others have been helped by my posts. my work has been mentioned in and linked to from usa today, the huffington post, the san francisco chronicle, the new york times, consumerist, the atlantic wire, the wall street journal, the washington post, and other publications. when i'm not writing, i enjoy spending time with my son, reading, eating out, traveling, and playing in the outdoors. primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com