millionaire trader preferred broker blog penny stocks 101 (guide) how to find good penny stocks 6 crazy day trading myths versus reality earnings per share guide after hours trading tips pre-market trading: prep techniques for traders operating income guide 37 stock market terms you should know how to short a stock (guide) more blog posts … press about tim sykes who is tim sykes making money trading stocks takes time, dedication, and hard work. my goal is to teach you how i have succeeded in the market, but you may not achieve my results. remember, there are risks involved with investing, including the potential loss of money. click here for additional important information. update: watch these 7 free video lessons to understand how i became a millionaire by age 22…and now several of my trading challenge students have crossed $1 million in profits with my strategy in just a few years, see us featured here on cnn money and here on fox & friends experience led me to create profit.ly, a community of over 84,000 traders who share their performance and trades openly (see all my trades here of how i turned $12,415 into $4.7 million) to help each other learn & improve and investimonials.com, a community of over 65,000 investors & traders who have reviewed over 25,000 financial products like brokers, blogs, newsletters, websites, financial movies & commentators…kinda like yelp or tripadvisor but for finance, which is sorely lacking in transparency. i am a full-time teacher now, see some of my 6,000+ students here, and i want more of this: i had a slightly different college experience: skipping classes in favor of trading penny stocks every day, i turned $12,415 in bar mitzvah gift money into $2 million and started a hedge fund during my senior year. i also created a scholarship for talented/passionate people open not only to current tulane students, but also tulane faculty and alumni…an economic bailout ahead of its time. my hedge fund went on to become the #1 ranked short bias fund by barclay for 3 years and i was named to trader monthly’s ‘top 30 under 30’ in 2006, but my trading strategy was never very scalable (meaning it’s much easier for me to make $100,000 than it is $100 million) and my fund lost 35% when i tried long-term investing instead of trading. infinitely wiser but embarrassed and depressed, a tv producer asked me to make an appearance in his upcoming documentary “wall street warriors”…i had lost my confidence and credibility so i said sure and ended up starring in 5 of the 6 episodes of the hit first season, which you can watch on hulu, now having aired in 20+ countries and followed by 2 more seasons (wall street warriors season 3 was filmed but has not aired). the show’s popularity inspired hundreds of daily emails from fans wanting to know more about me and my trading strategy, but as a hedge fund manager, i was not allowed to answer any of them. so i said “screw you!” to the restricted hedge fund industry, wrote openly about my experiences in my best-selling autobiography “an american hedge fund” and started a publishing company to create brutally honest & educational financial newsletters and instructional dvd packages. i’ve been featured by every major business and financial media outlet, but i am infinitely prouder of having returned to my $12,415 bar mitzvah gift money roots, intent on repeating my feat of turning that into $2 million, this time detailing every step of the way on this website. 8,000 blog posts and several years into this challenge, my brokerage account surged to $211,420, a gain of more than 1,500%, already providing you with a rough blueprint of how to turn $12k into $100k in 2 years and making me the #1 ranked trader out of 60,000+ traders on covestor from 2008-2011, a website which verifies trades and performance…and nearly 1/5 of the top traders are subscribers of my 4 newsletters and pennystocking dvd students! i’ve also enjoyed my money, traveling to over 80 countries and meeting and chatting with many of the world’s most interesting and successful people…see my instagram profile here and my youtube channel here to get a taste…and trust me you’d hate me much more if you saw my entire life 🙂 battling against those in finance who misinform, i’ve made enemies with soulless penny stock promoters, certain cnbc commentators, penny stock promoters who pretend to be fox news commentators and wholly imbecilic people like trader monthly editor-in-thief randall lane who used his press connections to publicly berate me and accuse me of losing $ due to the tv show (ignoring the advance copy of the book i sent him in which i explain what went wrong) (don’t worry, he eventually got what was coming to him). even basketball star shaquille o’neal sent me a cease & desist letter after i blasted him for taking shares of a penny stock pump & dump (see my comprehensive reply to the big man’s legal threats…never heard back from him and the stock has dropped 99% as i predicted it would) i now have 3,000+ students in over 70 countries and as you can read in this blog post, some of my trading challenge students are trained killers so i better do a good job teaching them! 🙂 the good news is that in less than 4 years as a teacher, subscribers of my 4 newsletters have now learned to bank with over four dozen students earning six figures/year and i have created several millionaires from scratch, read about them here and here. below are some videos i’ve done and you can see how my big mouth and brutal honesty make me millions but also get me into a little trouble: (view all of my press clippings from the past.) about timothy sykes i became a self-made millionaire by the age of 21, trading thousands of penny stocks - yep you read that right, penny stocks. you may have heard ... read more tim's important resources penny stocking 101: how to get started with penny stocks which penny stocks to buy how to invest in penny stocks home about affiliates chatroom contact tim ** results may not be typical and may vary from person to person. making money trading stocks takes time, dedication, and hard work. there are inherent risks involved with investing in the stock market, including the loss of your investment. past performance in the market is not indicative of future results. any investment is at your own risk. see terms of service here.. millionaire media 80 s.w. 8th street suite 2000 miami, florida 33130 united states (203) 980-1361 this is for information purposes only as millionaire media llc nor timothy sykes is registered as a securities broker-dealer or an investment adviser. no information herein is intended as securities brokerage, investment, tax, accounting or legal advice, as an offer or solicitation of an offer to sell or buy, or as an endorsement, recommendation or sponsorship of any company, security or fund. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes cannot and does not assess, verify or guarantee the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of any information, the suitability or profitability of any particular investment, or the potential value of any investment or informational source. the reader bears responsibility for his/her own investment research and decisions, should seek the advice of a qualified securities professional before making any investment, and investigate and fully understand any and all risks before investing. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes in no way warrants the solvency, financial condition, or investment advisability of any of the securities mentioned in communications or websites. in addition, millionaire media llc and timothy sykes accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of this information. this information is not intended to be used as the sole basis of any investment decision, nor should it be construed as advice designed to meet the investment needs of any particular investor. past performance is not necessarily indicative of future returns. ©2007-2020 timothysykes™ all rights reserved. millionaire publishing llc terms of service and user agreement privacy policy (statement) earnings disclosure member agreement code of conduct what people are saying we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.✖