blog how to blogging guide tech news more android & ios pc & laptop windows blogger / wordpress seo sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search xtechkr blog how to blogging guide tech news more android & ios pc & laptop windows blogger / wordpress seo about us hello everyone, thanks for giving your precious time to visit our about page. xtechkr is basically a site where i post post’s about android, pc, gaming and much more. you guys may be here through google search or youtube. i heartily welcome everyone and thanks for giving time to visit this, glad to see you here. founder of this site is kris regmi. xtechkr team kris regmi (administrator) my name is kris regmi. i am the founder and owner of xtechkr. i am a student interested in blogging, doing researches and love helping others in technical field. i love tech and try to create creative, engaging, helpful & informative contents, keeping in mind what viewer want and what they like. for now, i am studying in little angels’ school. i have started this site not for profit but as a passion of mine. i have started this site to get some experience as i want to be a great computer engineer in future. i don’t get much time to keep on writing tutorials but whenever i get time i post. though, if i don’t post for a long time, please don’t stop visiting my site. if you have any problem or want to contact me then you can email me at my personal mail i.e [email protected]. i will try to assist you and try to get out of your problem asap. there might be a delay but i will try to help you as soon as possible. if you are interested in giving us some feedback, do get in touch, we are always willing to interact with our readers. we apologize in advance if we delay our responses. you can be assured that we read each and every one of our emails. if you want to know anything about us, then simply shoot us an e-mail at [email protected] or at [email protected] for any other inquiries and questions you might have, please feel free to contact us. subscribe to our newsletter! "it's all about android, ios, pc, gaming, rumors, blogging and tech news" subscribe! you have successfully subscribed! join our mailing list to receive the latest news and updates from our team. about us xtechkr is a tech site where we provide you tech solutions. it is basically a platform where you can learn about android, pc, how to, rumors, games, tips, tricks, tech news and more. a simple blog that help with wordpress, seo, making money, blogging, gaming, how to, tips and tricks etc. follow us about us contact us disclaimer privacy policy terms of services © xtechkr - all rights reserved