moz products blog about search resources resources moz pro moz local free seo tools log in menu icon-close seo learning center broaden your seo knowledge with resources for all skill levels. the beginner's guide to seo if you're brand new to seo, start here. seo q&a get answers from the moz community. free downloads and more quick access to whitepapers, reports, guides, webinars, and case studies. help hub learn how to use moz products. community & events connect with over 600k online marketers. seo training instructor-led classes and seminars an all-in-one seo toolset to boost your search engine rankings. learn about moz pro get started free link explorer the ultimate link analysis tool, complete with competitor insights. keyword explorer discover and prioritize the best keywords for your site. mozbar get live page metrics right in your chrome browser. moz pro home campaigns monitor your seo performance and get insights to increase organic traffic. local market analytics beta spot opportunity in target markets with local metrics and top serp competitors. research tools keyword explorer link explorer fresh web explorer on-page grader on-demand crawl rank checker local data management solution to help customers find your business online. learn about moz local get started free moz local enterprise local data management that is simple and cost effective for hundreds or thousands of locations. check my online presence see how complete and consistent your business’s location appears across the web. manage location dashboard check online presence search products blog about resources seo learning center the beginner's guide to seo seo q&a free downloads and more help hub community & events seo training moz pro learn about moz pro moz pro home link explorer keyword explorer mozbar moz local learn about moz local moz local enterprise check my online presence free seo tools log in about about : our story our story culture team jobs contact news our story culture team jobs contact news the moz story we know seo. in fact, we wrote the blog on it. at moz, we believe there is a better way to do marketing. a more valuable, less invasive way where customers are earned rather than bought. we're obsessively passionate about it, and our mission is to help people achieve it. we focus on search engine optimization (seo). it's one of the least understood and least transparent aspects of great marketing, and we see that as an opportunity: we're excited to simplify seo for everyone through our software, education, and community. our founding moz was founded by rand fishkin and gillian muessig in 2004. it was called seomoz, and started as a blog and an online community where some of the world's first seo experts shared their research and ideas. we launched the beginner's guide to seo and our first search ranking factors study, and that hub of industry expertise transformed into a small consulting firm and led us to create some of our first seo tools. early growth & funding after a glimpse of the demand, we shifted our focus from consulting to our software, taking our first round of funding in 2007 to power the development of new tools and ideas. by 2009, we tallied our first 5,000 subscribers and codified our core values in the acronym tagfee, continuing to lead the industry with our educational content in an effort to demystify seo (this is also when we started filming whiteboard fridays!). series b funding a series b investment from the foundry group propelled our efforts into the broader realm of inbound marketing, a concept that rejects pushy sales in favor of attracting customers with real value. we acquired a twitter analytics tool called followerwonk as well as getlisted, a local seo tool that has evolved into today's moz local. a new leaf with our broader marketing efforts in full swing, we rebranded from seomoz to moz in 2013. we released a suite of campaign-based tools called moz analytics that included features for content, social media, and brand management in addition to links and rankings. we also celebrated 10 years in search and welcomed long-time mozzer sarah bird as our new ceo. to infinity and beyond! with seo more important than ever, in 2016 we made a difficult but necessary decision to reverse our expansion into inbound marketing, shifting our strategy back to what we know best: search. we're making dramatic improvements to our core products, moz pro and moz local, and continue to push for transparency and a clear understanding of an otherwise complex field. did we mention we're also hiring? where does the name "moz" come from? moz, formerly seomoz, has a name that was inspired by organizations like dmoz, mozilla, and chefmoz — all companies that strove for engaging their communities with openness and integrity. from the very beginning, we felt passionately about bringing that same integrity to the frustratingly opaque seo industry. rand fishkin founder at moz interested in our latest chapter? learn about moz's products >> moz contact products api free trial terms & privacy jobs help news & press copyright 2020 © moz, inc. all rights reserved. back to top seo tools keyword research seo audit & crawl backlink research rank tracking seo toolbar domain analysis local marketing business listings audit citation cleanup local ranking factors local for enterprise marketing resources moz blog beginner’s guide to seo community q&a workshops & training recommended seo companies moz solutions agency enterprise small & mid-sized businesses get the moz top 10 the 10 most valuable pieces of content we can find for seos. every 2 weeks. subscribe today