skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register notifications skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress democratize publishing the freedom to build. the freedom to change. the freedom to share. our mission wordpress is software designed for everyone, emphasizing accessibility, performance, security, and ease of use. we believe great software should work with minimum set up, so you can focus on sharing your story, product, or services freely. the basic wordpress software is simple and predictable so you can easily get started. it also offers powerful features for growth and success. we believe in democratizing publishing and the freedoms that come with open source. supporting this idea is a large community of people collaborating on and contributing to this project. the wordpress community is welcoming and inclusive. our contributors’ passion drives the success of wordpress which, in turn, helps you reach your goals. the technology learn about the software the community learn about the people wordpress contributors work around the globe, and have dedicated countless hours to build a tool that democratizes publishing. wordpress is open source software that is both free and priceless. the technology learn about wordpress, where it’s been, and where it’s going. requirements features security roadmap history the details there’s so much in the details. stay abreast with the particulars. domains gnu public license accessibility privacy policy statistics the people learn about the community and how we get along. philosophy etiquette swag logos and graphics testimonials our story wordpress started in 2003 when mike little and matt mullenweg created a fork of b2/cafelog. the need for an elegant, well-architected personal publishing system was clear even then. today, wordpress is built on php and mysql, and licensed under the gplv2. it is also the platform of choice for over 35% of all sites across the web. the wordpress open source project has evolved in progressive ways over time — supported by skilled, enthusiastic developers, designers, scientists, bloggers, and more. wordpress provides the opportunity for anyone to create and share, from handcrafted personal anecdotes to world-changing movements. people with a limited tech experience can use it “out of the box”, and more tech-savvy folks can customize it in remarkable ways. bill of rights wordpress is licensed under the general public license (gplv2 or later) which provides four core freedoms. consider this the wordpress bill of rights: the 1st freedom to run the program for any purpose. the 2nd freedom to study how the program works and change it to make it do what you wish. the 3rd freedom to redistribute. the 4th freedom to distribute copies of your modified versions to others. about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.