wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » about wpbeginner about wpbeginner hello and welcome to wpbeginner, the largest free wordpress resource site for beginners. at wpbeginner, our main goal is to provide cutting-edge helpful wordpress tutorials that are easy to understand for small businesses, bloggers, and non-techy wordpress website owners. if you’ve ever asked yourself: “how can i build a wordpress site?” “how can i do ______ in wordpress?” “which wordpress plugin should i pick for doing _______?” “how do i fix ______ wordpress error?” “what are the best practices to follow in wordpress?” or if you have any other questions about wordpress… you’re in the right place! why wpbeginner (our story) my name is syed balkhi, and i’m the founder of wpbeginner. the wpbeginner story begins back in 2006 when i first discovered wordpress while searching for a blogging platform. it didn’t take me long to fall in love with the platform. in 2008, we decided to use wordpress for all of our client websites. this came with a set of challenges: pdf guides and 1-on-1 walk-throughs were incredibly time consuming and inefficient. i scoured the web to find a resource that could help my clients and other new wordpress users. at the time, most wordpress tutorials were written by developers for developers. that’s why i launched wpbeginner on july 4th, 2009 as a resource targeted for wordpress beginners and diy users. since then, wpbeginner has become the largest free wordpress resource site in the industry. getting started with wpbeginner (useful links) more than 320,000 people subscribe to wpbeginner for helpful wordpress tutorials and resources. if you’re just starting out, then we highly recommend that you check out the following areas of our site: wpbeginner blog – the central place for all our wordpress tutorials. wpbeginner dictionary – the best place for beginners to start and familiarize themselves with the wordpress lingo wpbeginner videos – new to wordpress? watch these 23 videos to master wordpress. wpbeginner blueprint – behind the scenes look at all the wordpress plugins, tools, and services we use at wpbeginner. wpbeginner deals – exclusive discounts on wordpress products and services for wpbeginner users. if you have any questions about wordpress, then please don’t hesitate to contact us. alternatively, you can tweet us @wpbeginner thank you so much for taking the time to read this, and we hope to see you on the blog sometime soon! for the press thank you for your interest in wpbeginner. we have a few guidelines for using wpbeginner’s brand resources. wpbeginner is one word. please capitalize the wpb. testimonials: “wpbeginner is one of the best resources on the web for anyone who is looking to start a wordpress blog.” – neil patel, founder of crazyegg and kissmetrics “wpbeginner is one of those cornerstone places you need bookmarked. i just hate that it’s called ‘beginner,’ because i’ve got 12 years experience and i still learn things there.” – chris brogan, ny times best selling author “if you’ve got wordpress, you need to be on wpbeginner.” – matt mickiewicz, founder of 99designs, sitepoint, flippa, and hired.com “creating a blog can be frustrating. luckily for you, wpbeginner makes it so easy even a caveman could do it. make this your top resource for all things wordpress.” – lewis howes, online marketing expert “syed knows what it takes to become an authority blogger, and has helped many bloggers get started. you should definitely check out what he is sharing at wpbeginner!” – chris garrett, chief digital officer at copyblogger media over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.