start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search about productive club 0shares hello, i am maxim dsouza. i turned down a corporate job in a quest to build something successful of my own. through this, i have been a part of and contributed extensively to multiple failed startups. my ideas have fallen flat on my face many times. i am yet to find what works, but my experience has taught me what doesn’t. i try to experiment and improve myself in different ways. sometimes my ideas fail, sometimes they succeed. based on my lessons learned i share tips on productivity, overcoming procrastination, improving focus and overcoming fear. since my experiments fail often, i also write about what not to-do along with the to-dos. my approach is to never run a sprint but take small baby steps like a marathon while enjoying the journey. if you are here, i am sure you are an ambitious person looking to chase your dreams. i am guessing you have dreams higher than everest but you find it challenging to pursue your dreams. maybe you have a full-time job or college which takes most of your time. you worry you will lead your life without being able to live the life of your dreams. do not worry. you can pursue your dreams no matter what your circumstances. whether you have a full-time job or other responsibilities consume your time, you can still do it. unlike the articles on the internet, i will not ask you to quit your job today and take a leap of faith. to scale mount everest you must start practicing today. similarly, to pursue your dream, you must put in the effort today. trust me, you can do it. the purpose of the website is to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity. the target is to help 1 million people pursue their dream. will you be one of them? join the journey with me. send me an email at maxim_dsouza@productiveclub.com maxim dsouza what i am not: billionaire philosopher conventional what i am: mediocrity hater continuously improving self learner productivity/time management obsesser settings my goal is to help people 1 million people pursue their dreams. share the article and help me with this mission. you don't need a reward to join the productive club, do you? plain and simple. did you find what you just read useful? great, then get more of such tips to sky rocket your productivity. join the productive club. your name your email 0shares top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator learn productivity hacks if you would like to boost your productivity and sky-rocket your efficiency, subsribe to our updates topics flaws of your brain growth at work improve focus overcome fear personal development phase 1 starting off with productivity phase 2 gaining momentum with routine phase 3 transform into a productive super human procrastination productivity sleep start your venture time management about | contact | ask any question | write a guest blog | privacy policy interview series interviews of other self improvement bloggers top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd smart goal setting: the ultimate guide on how to do them right you spend 7.1 years of your life on your smartphone. what else? why people don’t quit a job that they hate? challenges the little better everyday improvement challenge the 7 day wake up early challenge test your productivity 30 day productivity challenge find where you waste time tips and tricks when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide productive club · copyright 2020 · all rights reserved menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step best articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator the website has been created to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity and help people begin their journey of chasing their dream goals. the target is to help 1 million people pursue their dream while having a full time job. will you be one among them?