news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals about knowtechie knowtechie is a blog for people who love tech but live outside the bubble. it’s for the reader who is interested in technology but doesn’t necessarily live and breathe it. we aim to provide content that’s useful and entertaining – without the insider jargon that can make tech news tiresome. you don’t need to be deep into the tech space to enjoy knowtechie, nor will you need large swaths of time: the articles you’ll see here will be to-the-point – nothing over 300-400 words. we’ll feature a link at the end of each article from our source(s) for further reading. knowtechie’s creator is kevin raposo, a bostonian who is involved in the tech scene. to read more about kevin and why he created knowtechie, check out his first post from 2014 here. who we are image: knowtechie knowtechie could never be where it is today without its team of hardworking writers. we have writers from all over the world contributing here on a daily basis. meet the team below: kevin raposo – founder & executive editor josiah motley – managing editor joe rice-jones – hardware editor & news curtis silver – tech columnist colin barry – news contributor josh knowles – gaming contributor jake vander ende – gaming contributor jared jones – columnist & contributor matthew hughes – contributor hayk saakian – buying guide contributor murtaza islam – news kayla matthews – contributor chris smith – contributor want to be part of the team? get in touch with us over at our contact page. we’re always on the hunt for new writers who can offer a unique perspective on today’s tech news. got some news to share? have some feedback on the knowtechie experience? find a bug? we want to hear about it! seriously, that means anything. if that’s the case, our contact page is a good start, but our twitter and facebook work too. headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie