evernote uses cookies to enable the evernote service and to improve your experience with us. to learn more, check out our cookie policy. by clicking ok or continuing to use our site, you agree that we can place these cookies. ok click "ok" to return to yinxiang.com ok evernote plans basic take great notes premium unclutter your life business bring your team together compare plans find the evernote solution that fits your needs features sync and organize keep your notes handy web clipper a save button for the web templates make better notes, faster pdf & doc search find information anywhere spaces bring your team together search handwriting find text in any note document scanning go paperless with evernote integrations connect your favorite apps help & learning about us about us learn about the company careers opportunities at evernote why evernote save, sync and share it all contact us need help? get in touch download or log in evernote download or log in plans basic premium business compare plans features sync and organize web clipper templates pdf & doc search spaces search handwriting document scanning integrations help & learning about us about us why evernote careers contact us about evernote an extension of your brain when stepan pachikov, our founder, began working on the idea that eventually became evernote, he recognized three things the human brain does: it remembers the past, builds connections, and creates new ideas for the future. remember everything evernote was founded to address a growing problem that technology helped to create: how to succeed in a world where the volume and velocity of information are constantly increasing. accomplish anything people today are overwhelmed with information, and anxious about how to handle it all. evernote helps people find focus now, in the moment, to make progress on what matters most. become ever better evernote launched the digital personal productivity movement, and has been growing ever since. more than 225 million people around the world have discovered evernote, which is used in over 25 languages every day. many backgrounds, one evernote. we believe that different perspectives lead to better ideas. we’re continually working to create a more trusting and collaborative environment within evernote—one where all employees can be their authentic selves. see evernote careers » evernote origins with founder stepan pachikov press inquiries if you're looking for our latest company stats, images and logos, check out our brand assets. for any other press or speaking enquiries, please contact press@evernote.com. for all other inquiries, visit our contact page. brand guidelines the following brand guidelines have been made available to ensure proper use and execution of evernote's brand and assets, including any trademarks, logo, and/or content. to make any use of our marks in a way not covered by these guidelines, please contact us at brand@evernote.com and include a visual mockup of intended use. view assets and guidelines evernote corporation is a global, privately-owned company headquartered in redwood city, california. we also have offices in austin (texas), bothell (washington), san diego (california), santiago (chile) and tokyo (japan). ready for evernote? get started for free product why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features web clipper templates spaces integrations notes sync pdf & doc search search handwriting document scanning notebooks & tags community our community certified consultants beta program developers events forum support help & learning troubleshooting blog company about us careers contact us sign up or log in choose a language: english (us) bahasa indonesia bahasa melayu dansk deutsch english (us) español español (américa latina) français italiano nederlands polski português (brasil) português (portugal) suomi svenska tiếng việt türkçe русский العربية ภาษาไทย 한국어 中文（简体） 中文（繁體） 日本語 facebook twitter medium instagram youtube linkedin © 2020 evernote corporation. all rights reserved. security legal privacy