transforming our world through nonviolent action 2019: year in review sft store search for: our work campaigns commemorative dates trainings and conferences get involved start a chapter intern/volunteer events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern action kit strategic planning intro to direct action latest updates in the news press advisories/releases about staff our history about tibet financials support sft events sft store donate ways to support about tibet size: 2.5 million sq. km. capital: lhasa population: 6 million tibetans and an estimated 7.5 million chinese, most of whom are in kham and amdo language: tibetan (of the tibeto-burmese language family). provinces: amdo, kham & u-tsang bordering countries: india, nepal, bhutan, burma, china national flag: snow lions with red and blue rays. banned in tibet religious leader: the 14th dalai lama political leader: sikyong (prime minister) lobsang sangay government in exile: parliament (central tibetan administration) government in tibet: communist (people’s republic of china) relationship with the prc: colonial legal status: occupied economy: tibetans: predominantly in agriculture and animal husbandry. chinese: predominantly in government, commerce, and the service sector. average altitude: 14,000-16,000 ft. highest mountain: chomo langma (mt. everest) 29,028 ft average rainfall: varies widely. in the west it is 1mm in jan. to 25mm in july. in the east, it is 25-50mm in jan. and 800mm in july average temperature: july 58°f (14.5°c); jan. 24°f (-4.5°c). mineral deposits: borax, uranium, iron, chromite, gold major rivers: mekong, yangtse, salween, tsangpo, yellow, indus, ganges, irrawaddy major environmental issues: rampant deforestation in eastern tibet, poaching of large mammals, grassland desertification, permafrost degradation, unregulated and destructive mining and resource extraction staple food: tsampa (roasted barley flour) national drink: salted butter tea animals: wild yak, bharal (blue) sheep, musk deer, tibetan antelope, tibetan gazelle, kyang (wild ass), pica birds: black necked crane, lammergeier, great crested grebe, bar-headed goose, ruddy shel duck, ibis-bill where is tibet? why should you help tibet regain its freedom? what is tibet like? what really happened when china invaded tibet? here is where you can find the answers to some of your questions. arm yourself with the knowledge you need to be an intelligent freedom fighter! tibet lies at the center of asia, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers. encircled by the earth’s highest mountains, tibet is a vast, arid plateau with an average altitude of 14,000 feet above sea level. the tibetan plateau has unique and exceptional ecosystems. the headwaters of asia’s major rivers originate on the tibetan plateau, which supply 85% of the population of asia with water—approximately 47% of the world’s population. tibet is comprised of the three provinces of amdo, kham, and u-tsang. amdo is now split by china into the provinces of qinghai and part of gansu. kham is largely incorporated into the chinese provinces of sichuan, gansu and yunnan, and u-tsang, together with western kham, is today referred to by china as the tibet autonomous region (tar). the tar comprises less than half of historic tibet and was created by china in 1965 for administrative reasons. it is important to note that when chinese officials and publications use the term “tibet” they are referring only to tar. tibetans use the term tibet to mean the three provinces described above, the area traditionally known as tibet before the invasion in 1949-50. despite over 60 years of chinese occupation of tibet, the tibetan people refuse to be conquered and subjugated by china. the present chinese policy—a combination of demographic and economic manipulation and discrimination—aims to suppress the tibetan issue by changing the very character and the identity of tibet and its people. today, tibetans are outnumbered by chinese in their own homeland. for more information and action material, please check our action kit. students for a free tibet (sft) works in solidarity with the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom and independence. we are a chapter-based network of young people and activists around the world. through education, grassroots organizing, and nonviolent direct action, we campaign for tibetans’ fundamental right to political freedom. join sft's online action network: get emails, updates & action items. sign up! 602 east 14th street, 2nd floor new york, ny 10009 usa (212) 358-0071 info@studentsforafreetibet.org intern with us we are always looking for help. if you are talented and passionate about human rights and tibet then we want to hear from you! intern / volunteer © 2020 students for a free tibet ×