petapixel news equipment tutorials archives send a tip links about contact advertise privacy policy full disclosure search type here what you are looking for search 500 k 1 m facebook 500 k / likes twitter 1 m / followers about established in may of 2009, petapixel is a leading blog covering the wonderful world of photography. we love photography, and we want to see others love it too. our goal is to inform, educate, and inspire in all things photography-related. in case you didn’t know, the “peta” in petapixel is the prefix that denotes 1015, just as the “mega” in megapixel denotes 106. social media find us on a number of social media services across the web: facebook 500 k / followers twitter 1 m / followers contact us the petapixel team dl cade editor-in-chief dl is a writer, editor, and photography enthusiast based out of new york, new york. a graduate of auburn university with a degree in biomedical sciences, he left his stem roots behind nearly a decade ago and has spent the past 8 years writing and working for some of the largest companies and publications in the photo industry. view all articles by dl cade michael zhang founder & editor michael is a photography enthusiast, entrepreneur, and programmer based in northern california near san francisco. he graduated from the university of california, berkeley with two degrees in computer science. view all articles by michael zhang jaron schneider columnist jaron schneider is an award-winning commercial filmmaker as well as critically-acclaimed and internationally published journalist from san francisco, california. his clients include verizon, facebook/instagram, the united states air force thunderbirds, and grammy-award winning band train, among others. schneider specializes in evaluating video equipment, computers, storage devices and optics for the modern professional photographer and videographer, along with providing unique insight into the complicated and constantly-changing imaging market. view all articles by jaron schneider mike “sharky” james podcast host sharky, as he’s known by friends, family, and his audience, is an award-winning newspaper photographer (retired) who lives in beautiful utah with his wife and kids. he’s a former editor/publisher of a parenting magazine and his photographs have been published in reader’s digest, time for kids and many other publications. he believes there’s something to learn from everyone and enjoys sharing his knowledge of photography through his varied experience as a photojournalist. view all articles by mike “sharky” james news gear inspiration tutorials reviews archives podcast copyright © 2020 petapixel subscribe our newsletter to stay up to date 500 k 1 m