can't get enough treehugger? sign up now and have it sent straight to your inbox. daily and weekly newsletters available. email address email is required newsletters the daily newsletter the weekly newsletter subscribe × design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows decadence through simplicity design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows about contact newsletters advertisement about treehugger treehugger is the leading media outlet dedicated to driving sustainability mainstream. partial to a modern aesthetic, we strive to be a one-stop shop for green news, solutions, and product information. we publish an up to the minute blog, weekly and daily newsletters, and regularly updated twitter and facebook pages. treehugger is part of narrative content group. contact us our core team melissa breyer editorial director / brooklyn, new york with a background in food, science, art, and design, melissa is an expert and author who has been writing about sustainability since 2001. her work has been featured in publications including the new york times and national geographic; she is the co-author of the best-selling “build your running body” (the experiment, 2014), and the award-winning “true food: eight simple steps to a healthier you” (national geographic, 2009). in addition, she has developed hundreds of recipes for publication, is a widely published photographer, has run 10 marathons, and moonlights as a pastry chef. experience melissa has written for treehugger and ... melissa's full bio rss for melissa follow @melissabreyer lloyd alter design editor / toronto, canada lloyd alter has been an architect, a real estate developer, a prefab entrepreneur, and now teaches sustainable design at ryerson school of interior design. experience lloyd has been writing for treehugger since 2005 about architecture, design, transportation and planning; he is design editor and was previously managing editor. he has written for mnn since 2015. he has contributed to the guardian, corporate knights magazine, azure magazine, architectural record and greensource. lloyd has been a regular speaker or moderator at passive house conferences in seattle, vancouver, new york city, boston, vienna, and munich. he has also spoken about green building in vancouver, ... lloyd's full bio rss for lloyd follow @lloydalter katherine martinko senior writer / ontario, canada katherine martinko writes about sustainable, low-impact living. her informative and engaging stories have inspired treehugger readers since 2013. experience an expert in sustainable living, katherine writes extensively about reducing waste, the importance of cooking from scratch, choosing clean beauty products and ethical fashion, raising free-range children, and travelling in a lower-impact way. a professional writer, she has been an integral part of treehugger's editorial team since 2013 and her work has taken her to five continents. prior to treehugger, katherine was a staff writer for discovery network's parentables website and maintained a popular personal blog. her work has appeared in the ... katherine's full bio rss for katherine follow @feistyredhair lindsey reynolds social media editor / writer / new orleans, louisiana lindsey reynolds writes about both practical and light-hearted approaches to living a zero-waste lifestyle from a single millennial perspective. experience lucky enough to be based in new orleans, lindsey takes a holistic yet pragmatic approach to living a sustainable lifestyle. with a writing career running the gamut from airlines to higher education to the hospitality industry to sustainable living, lindsey believes that a low-waste lifestyle can be applied anywhere to anyone. working as a writer, editor, and social media strategist, she has been part of the mnn/treehugger team since 2017. previously, she was part of the first-ever social media team ... lindsey's full bio rss for lindsey kimberley mok writer / montreal, canada kimberley covers green architecture, design, arts and culture for treehugger. she is the author of the modern house bus: mobile tiny house inspirations published by countryman press (w. w. norton & company); her work has also appeared on the huffington post, alternet, planet green, parentables and yahoo! green. kimberley has a bachelor of architecture from cornell university and is also a certified permaculture designer. her big "a-ha" sustainability moment came some years ago when she lived and worked as an architect in auroville, a south indian intentional community striving for environmental, social and economic sustainability. it ... kimberley's full bio rss for kimberley follow @kimberleymok sami grover writer / durham, north carolina sami grover is a writer, environmental do-gooder and brand development manager for the redwoods group – a certified b corp and mission-aligned insurance partner to community organizations like the ymca, jcc, boys and girls clubs, and camps. previously, as creative director at the change creation, sami worked with clients including larry’s beans, burt's bees, canaan fair trade and jada pinkett smith/overbrook entertainment. he writes on a broad range of topics including sustainable business, the collaborative economy and clean energy. he also has an unhealthy obsession with human waste and what we should do with it. he once vowed ... sami's full bio rss for sami follow @samigrover ilana strauss writer / brooklyn ilana is a multimedia storyteller with a weakness for science who has written for the atlantic, new york magazine, the cut, mother nature network, and other publications. she lives in brooklyn with about a million roommates who all get bossed around by a nearby family of stray cats. ilana's full bio rss for ilana follow @ilanaestrauss christine lepisto writer / berlin, germany christine lepisto has had the good fortune of developing her childhood love of math and chemistry into a career revolving around corporate environmental responsibility coupled with realistic economic competitiveness, following her belief that change is best made from the inside. after over 20 years of industrial experience -- developing new materials recovery processes, implementing waste reduction projects, satisfying community concerns when seeking permits, and managing chemical stewardship globally -- she founded chemical safety consulting in 2008 to continue to support clients committed to sustainability. she has been writing for treehugger since 2005. christine and her husband of over twenty-five ... christine's full bio rss for christine follow @greenanswer derek markham writer / new mexico derek is a digital dad with an analog streak, as comfortable with a smartphone as he is with pencil and paper. he's got a soft spot for babies, bicycles and bouldering, and is the head shoveler at his mini-farm startup in new mexico. you can also find him letting it all hang out on twitter and naturalpapa. derek's full bio rss for derek follow @derekmarkham most popular right now the top us states for homesteading, tiny homes, and off-grid living here's what the real patch adams has been up to common household products that can kill the coronavirus alley cat laneway house looks a lot bigger than it is jupe health is an 'immediate response to hospital overcrowding' what's hot on facebook teach your child how to read a paper map 20 things to do with chickpeas this pandemic is changing how my family eats cdc lists oil of lemon eucalyptus as comparable to deet for mosquitoes about contact newsletters rss privacy policy copyright © 2020 narrative content group. all rights reserved