skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged accessibility it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 117 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. link march 23, 2020 css can influence screenreaders shared by chris coyier ben myers covers some clear examples of where css totally changes what some screen readers announce. for example, some screenreader will see text-transform: uppercase; on a button label that says "add" and read it like an abbreviation, "a.d.d." these cases of css messing with our screenreader announcements are initially shocking, perplexing, and maybe even appalling. after all, they seem to conflict with our mental model of css, one that's likely been instilled in us since we started learning web development: … read article “css can influence screenreaders” our notes / read at blog.benmyers.dev accessibility screen readers article march 17, 2020 how to create a “skip to content” link author paul ryan 9 comments join conversation skip links are little internal navigation links that help users move around a page. it’s possible you’ve never actually seen one before because they’re often hidden from view and used as an accessibility enhancement that lets keyboard users and screen readers jump from the top of the page to the content without have to go through other elements on the page first. in fact, you can find one right here on css-tricks if you crack devtools open.… read article “how to create a “skip to content” link” :focus-within accessibility hiding links link march 17, 2020 15 things to improve your website accessibility shared by chris coyier this is a really great list from bruce. there is a lot of directly actionable stuff here. send it around to your team and make it something that you all go through together. here's a little one that prodded me to finally fix...… read article “15 things to improve your website accessibility” our notes / read at websitesetup.org accessibility link march 15, 2020 using the html title attribute shared by chris coyier steve faulkner: user groups not well served by use of the title attribute • mobile phone users. • keyboard only users. • screen magnifier users. • screen reader users. • users with fine motor skill impairments. • users with cognitive impairments. sounds like in 2020, the only useful thing the title attribute can do is label an <iframe title="contact form"</iframe. … read article “using the html title attribute” our notes / read at developer.paciellogroup.com accessibility title article march 12, 2020 programming sass to create accessible color combinations author jason hogue 7 comments join conversation we are always looking to make the web more accessible. color contrast is just math, so sass can help cover edge cases that designers might have missed. accessibility accessibility color high-contrast article march 10, 2020 block links are a pain (and maybe just a bad idea) author chris coyier 26 comments join conversation as we noted in our complete guide, you can put an <a href=""> link around whatever chunks of html you like. let's call that a "block link." like you are wanting to link up an entire "card" of content because it makes a big clickable target. … read article “block links are a pain (and maybe just a bad idea)” accessibility links article february 19, 2020 understanding web accessibility color contrast guidelines and ratios author stacie arellano 6 comments join conversation what should you do when you get a complaint about the color contrast in your web design? it might seem perfectly fine to you because you’re able to read content throughout the site, but to someone else, it might be a totally different experience. how can put yourself in that person’s shoes to improve their experience? there are some relatively easy ways to test contrast. for example, you can check the site on your phone or tablet in bright sunlight … read article “understanding web accessibility color contrast guidelines and ratios” accessibility accessibility color high-contrast link february 6, 2020 building an accessible autocomplete control shared by robin rendle here’s a great in-depth post from adam silver about his journey to create an autocomplete field that’s as accessible as possible. there are so many edge cases to consider! there are old browsers and their peculiar quirks, there are accessibility best practices for screen readers, and not to mention dealing with the component design when there’s no javascript, etc. adam offers a warning before he begins: [...] i've been looking at ways to let users enter a destination country. unfortunately, … read article “building an accessible autocomplete control” our notes / read at adamsilver.io accessibility autocomplete article january 15, 2020 the deal with the section element author chris coyier 5 comments join conversation two articles published the exact same day: bruce lawson on smashing magazine: why you should choose html5 <article></article> over <section></section> adam laki on pine: the difference between <section></section> and <div></div> element they are comparing slightly different things, but they both involve the <section></section> element. … read article “the deal with the section element” accessibility article html section link january 15, 2020 debunking the myth: accessibility and react shared by chris coyier i find it notable when the blog of a major accessibility-focused company like deque publishes an article called debunking the myth: accessibility and react. mark steadman is essentially saying if a site has bad accessibility, it ain't react... it's you. the tools are there to achieve good accessibility. react didn't use a <div></div> for a <button></button>, you did. react didn't force extra markup all over the page when you decided to not use a fragment. react didn't forget … read article “debunking the myth: accessibility and react” our notes / read at www.deque.com accessibility react 1 2 3 ... 12 older how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers