skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged accessibility color it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 10 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. article march 12, 2020 programming sass to create accessible color combinations author jason hogue 7 comments join conversation we are always looking to make the web more accessible. color contrast is just math, so sass can help cover edge cases that designers might have missed. accessibility accessibility color high-contrast article february 19, 2020 understanding web accessibility color contrast guidelines and ratios author stacie arellano 6 comments join conversation what should you do when you get a complaint about the color contrast in your web design? it might seem perfectly fine to you because you’re able to read content throughout the site, but to someone else, it might be a totally different experience. how can put yourself in that person’s shoes to improve their experience? there are some relatively easy ways to test contrast. for example, you can check the site on your phone or tablet in bright sunlight … read article “understanding web accessibility color contrast guidelines and ratios” accessibility accessibility color high-contrast article january 20, 2020 the best color functions in css? author chris coyier 4 comments join conversation i've said before that hsl is the best color format we have. most of us aren't like david desandro, who can read hex codes. hsl(a) is hue, saturation, lightness, and alpha, if we need it. hsl(120, 100%, 40%) hue isn't intuitive, but it's not that weird. you take a trip around the color wheel from 0 to 360. saturation is more obvious where 0% has all the color sucked out, like grayscale, and 100% is fully rich color at … read article “the best color functions in css?” accessibility color color hsla lab article december 23, 2019 a whole bunch of places to consider contrast in a single paragraph author chris coyier 5 comments join conversation when we're thinking about choosing colors in design, we're always thinking about accessibility. whenever colors touch, there is contrast and, if we're talking about the color contrast of text, it needs to be high enough to be readable. this benefits people with a variety of visual disabilities, but also everyone appreciates easily readable text. let's look at the color contrast considerations of just a single paragraph!… read article “a whole bunch of places to consider contrast in a single paragraph” ::selection accessibility accessibility color link december 4, 2019 whocanuse shared by chris coyier there are loads of microsites and developer tools for looking at color accessibility, including tools built right into browser devtools. they often show you if a color passes aa or aaa wcag guidelines. but color contrast is more complicated than that because there is a wide variety of vision impairments. this site from corey ginnivan takes two colors and then shows you a simulation of different vision types (e.g. tritanomaly, trouble distinguishing blues) and whether the colors still pass ok. … read article “whocanuse” our notes / read at whocanuse.com accessibility accessibility color link october 21, 2019 designing accessible color systems shared by robin rendle the team at stripe explores how they’re refining their color palette to make it more accessible and legible for users across all their products and interfaces. not only that but the team built a wonderful and yet entirely bonkers app for figuring out the ideal range of colors that they needed. we built a web interface to allow us to visualize and manipulate our color system using perceptually uniform color models. the tool gave us an immediate feedback loop while … read article “designing accessible color systems” our notes / read at stripe.com accessibility accessibility color design systems article may 28, 2019 color contrast accessibility tools author robin rendle 7 comments go to comments accessibility is all the rage these days, specifically when it comes to color contrast. i’ve stumbled upon a couple of tools this week that i think are pretty nifty for helping make sure that all of the text on our websites is legible regardless of what background color they might have.… read article “color contrast accessibility tools” a11y accessibility color color color-adjust article february 21, 2019 css variables + calc() + rgb() = enforcing high contrast colors author josh bader 17 comments go to comments as you may know, the recent updates and additions to css are extremely powerful. from flexbox to grid, and — what we’re concerned about here — custom properties (aka css variables), all of which make robust and dynamic layouts and interfaces easier than ever while opening up many other possibilities we used to only dream of. the other day, i was thinking that there must be a way to use custom properties to color an element's background while … read article “css variables + calc() + rgb() = enforcing high contrast colors” accessibility accessibility color calc css variables custom properties rgba article january 11, 2019 re: pleasing color palettes author chris coyier 7 comments go to comments there are so many tools out there to help you pick colors. i totally get it! it's hard! when colors are done well, it's like magic. it adds a level of polish to a design that can really set it apart. let's look at some, then talk about this idea some more.… read article “re: pleasing color palettes” accessibility color color generative color article june 8, 2018 creating a vs code theme author sarah drasner 1 comment go to comments everyone has special and perhaps, particular, tastes when it comes to their code editor. there are literally thousands of themes out there, and for good reason: a thing of beauty and enhancement to productivity for one can be a hindrance to another. it’s been an item on my bucket list to create my own theme. i was coding very late the one night, well into the small hours of the morning. everyone in my house was sleeping and so, as … read article “creating a vs code theme” accessibility color color editor theme vscode vscode theme how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers