we are experiencing high volumes of learner contacts right now, so we may be slightly slower than usual to respond. thanks for your patience! check here for status updates. --> toggle navigation | help center contact us help articles knowledgebase log in help articles coursera help center help articles coursera policies accommodations for learners with disabilities coursera is committed to ensuring that learners with visual and hearing impairments, as well as other disabilities, are able to succeed in courses on our platform. you can read more on our accessibility policy page. accommodations for hearing impairments all lecture videos have native language closed-caption subtitles. you can also download the subtitles to read as a transcript. accommodations for visual impairments most pages and features on coursera are compatible with screen readers. accommodations for learning disabilities if you need more time to complete an assignment, you can save it as a draft and return to it later. late submissions do not affect your grade, but may affect your peer reviews. you can re-take quizzes and re-watch videos as many times as you need to. you can also download videos to watch offline and download video transcripts to read. if you need more time to complete a course, you can re-set your personalized deadlines and save most of your work. accommodation policies may differ for learners in private groups, like degree or enterprise learners. if you're taking a course as part of a degree or through another program and require accommodations for a learning disability, consult with your program administrators. degree learners may also need to contact their university’s disability office to request appropriate and available accommodations. request accommodations in a course to request additional accommodations, please contact coursera support. when you contact us to request accommodations, please include: a specific request for a modification that would help you links to up to two active courses for which you'd like accommodations if you are a learner in a private group, like degree or enterprise learners, please also send this request to your program administrator as the process for requesting accommodations may differ. was this article helpful? related articles apply for financial aid or a scholarship payments on coursera enroll in a course cancel a subscription download videos contact us contact us contact us help articles knowledgebase powered by zendesk