skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search category: across the aisle interviews the cranky flier interview: breakfast with the ceo of ontario airport the cranky flier interview: breakfast with the ceo of ontario airport as the holidays approached, i sat down with mark thorpe, ceo of ontario international airport authority. i’ve actually known mark since college, but we reconnected when he was working for los angeles world airports (lawa) years ago. since that time, he went to dfw and then came back to southern … cf on jan 5, 2020 jan 7, 2020 after cuts, aeromar tries to regain its footing (across the aisle) after cuts, aeromar tries to regain its footing (across the aisle) there’s a good chance you haven’t heard of aeromar. the mexico city-based airline has only 10 atrs these days with most focusing on connecting mexico city with small airports around the country as well as providing frequency in larger markets where other airlines don’t fill the need. aeromar is currently … cf on sep 25, 2019 sep 26, 2019 hawaiian’s asian strategy is largely a japan strategy (across the aisle) hawaiian’s asian strategy is largely a japan strategy (across the aisle) and now it’s time for the last part of my interview with hawaiian airlines ceo peter ingram. today we talk about international flying, primarily asia. if you missed the earlier posts, click to find the mainland discussion as well as the interisland discussion. brett snyder, cranky flier: i … cf on aug 22, 2019 aug 27, 2019 how hawaiian competes on mainland flying (across the aisle) how hawaiian competes on mainland flying (across the aisle) next week i’m off to the boyd conference in las vegas. i look forward to seeing some of you there. as i prepare for a whole bunch of interviews, i’ve decided this is a great time to post my lengthy interview with hawaiian’s ceo peter ingram. i met him at … cf on aug 22, 2019 aug 22, 2019 talking onboard product with virgin atlantic’s vp of customer experience (across the aisle) talking onboard product with virgin atlantic’s vp of customer experience (across the aisle) as you might come to expect from an entity affiliated with richard branson, virgin atlantic celebrated the launch of its los angeles to manchester flight with a party in a warehouse district east of downtown la. and since it was close to virgin atlantic’s 35th anniversary date, sir richard himself … cf on jul 8, 2019 jul 9, 2019 across the aisle from tap ceo antonoaldo neves across the aisle from tap ceo antonoaldo neves this summer, tap air portugal continues its rapid expansion by adding three new destinations in the us: chicago, san francisco, and washington/dulles. the airline now has 100 aircraft, double where it was only about a decade ago. this kind of rapid growth combined with the airline’s low fares makes me … cf on may 29, 2019 jun 3, 2019 the cranky flier interview: janet lamkin, united airlines, president of california the cranky flier interview: janet lamkin, united airlines, president of california it’s a lofty title to be sure. janet joined united in november 2017 to fill the first regional president position here on the west coast. i assume this role was meant to project both internally and externally just how important california is to the airline. but what does that mean, … cf on mar 4, 2019 mar 7, 2019 spirit’s current and future ceos on the airline’s continued operational improvement (across the aisle) spirit’s current and future ceos on the airline’s continued operational improvement (across the aisle) now i’m back with the second part of my discussion with current spirit ceo bob fornaro and his successor ted christie. in the first part, we focused on the network, but here we spoke about the operation. when i first talked to bob last year about it, things were … cf on sep 5, 2018 sep 6, 2018 the cranky flier interview: hawaiian ceo peter ingram and svp revenue management and network brent overbeek the cranky flier interview: hawaiian ceo peter ingram and svp revenue management and network brent overbeek my vacation is just getting started, so enjoy this week of posts about my visit with hawaiian. i’m back with regular content on july 3. i mentioned in my trip report last week that i had to get to the long beach airport for hawaiian’s inaugural really, really early. that’s … cf on jun 22, 2018 jun 25, 2018 across the aisle from american president robert isom on rising oil cost, limits of segmentation, and getting out in the field (part 2) across the aisle from american president robert isom on rising oil cost, limits of segmentation, and getting out in the field (part 2) welcome back for the second part of my interview with robert isom, president of american airlines, while he was in los angeles for a town hall with employees. if you missed the first half, you can find it here. let’s get right back into it. brett snyder, cranky flier… cf on jun 19, 2018 jun 19, 2018 across the aisle from american president robert isom on his agenda, operational progress, and what it means to be the best (part 1) across the aisle from american president robert isom on his agenda, operational progress, and what it means to be the best (part 1) on friday, i had the chance to spend some time with robert isom, president of american airlines, when he came to los angeles for a town hall meeting. i’ve long known robert as a people person, ever since my first interaction with him more than 15 years ago when he … cf on jun 18, 2018 jun 18, 2018 david neeleman on the a330neo and doubling tap’s presence in the us (across the aisle) david neeleman on the a330neo and doubling tap’s presence in the us (across the aisle) i’ve lined up a handful of interviews here on the blog which you’ll see in the next few weeks. today, i’m starting with david neeleman. as you know, david has been behind a lot of different airline projects, most famously the founding of jetblue. but today we’re focusing on tap … cf on jun 12, 2018 jun 12, 2018 posts navigation page 1 page 2 page 3 … page 7 nextnext footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site!