instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "activities" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: activities rebecca 5 min read january 28, 2020 no reply a guide to winter for ottawa families around ottawa, play 10 fun outdoor things to do when the temperatures drop and the snow falls in ottawa i have openly admitted that we are not a traditional winter family. we don’t ski, we are only ‘okay’ skaters, and we don’t relish the snow. while we are full of festive holiday spirit in december, the months of january – march can feel long, drawn out and not fun. it’s one reason we are happy when we can escape to warmer climates. but when we stop to plan out some winter fun, we are always amazing at how much we enjoy it. as though by some miracle, the snow wasn’t the worst, and our rosy cheeks at the end of a cold winter day are accentuated by our smiles. if you live in ottawa, you know what winter can really feel like. i’m writing this post when it’s about minus a billion out and the snow is up to my roof top (fine, there may be some exaggeration there but you get my drift. hahaha get it? sigh. i’ve already been shut in for too long) here are 10 winter activities you can do as a family around the ottawa area! have fun! take a staycation and head out to see activities there are so many places in and around ottawa that are perfect for a little getaway, but that also will facilitate some winter fun just by being close to other activities, especially if you time it for winterlude. last year, we stayed at the courtyard marriott downtown and were able to take in outdoor fun while being in the heart of downtown. there’s also brookstreet which offers a mini getaway and a skating rink! i like being able to enjoy some outdoor time, but then let the kids swim in the hotel pool or warm up together over a nice meal. attend winterlude winterlude will begin on january 31 until february 17. there are events all over the city, including snowflake kingdom, sparks street and shenkman arts centre. it’s an annual winterfest in ottawa that brings many locals and tourists out to enjoy the snow! go skate on the rideau canal (or one of the many outdoor rinks!) when weather conditions are right, skating on the canal is a traditional ottawa winter bucket list item, but there are other skating rinks around the city to enjoy (you likely have one right in your neighbourhood!) go sledding from small little hills to thrilling ones across the city, sledding is always a favourite activity for our family. savvymom ottawa has a list of some locataions. go to parc omega yes, parc omega is open in the winter, and a wonderful time to go is in march when their sugar bush is available. we loved it. you can read more about our visit in this post. visit a maple sugar bush speaking of sugar bushes, i love them, and when you have the chance to have a true pancake breakfast at a sugar bush, i always recommend it. we have many in and around the ottawa area. i’ve shared a few on the blog before, including one we like going to that’s a little bit of a drive out of town but the food is amazing. take a trip to chateau montebello this is how your winter in luxury. we take a trip in december every year and don’t always have true winter weather when we go, but we have gone in february before and love it. with two outdoor skating rinks, curling, tubing nearby and a fireplace to cozy up to after a long winter day, this is a trip that’s always a pleasure. skate through a forest did you know the ottawa area has places to go skating along a long pathway? the forest skating options just outside of the city sound like so much fun! here’s a list of where you can skate through a forest, and other outdoor rinks that i wrote for savvymom. eat a beavertail my ‘must do’ lists when i travel or stay local and explore our neighbourhoods often include a foodie item, and grabbing a beavertail on the canal or in the byward market while you are standing in the cold feels amazing. they are warm, sweet and the perfect way to end or begin some outdoor fun. go snowshoeing there are many trails to go snowshoeing in and around ottawa with the kids. i feel like this is an underrated activity. i don’t own them, but i want to think that if we did, we would head outside for a walk more often. here’s information about snowshoeing in gatineau park. what are some outdoor activities you like to do in the ottawa area as a family? rebecca 2 min read november 14, 2018 3 replies giveaway: enter to win a holiday craft workshop for the family! (ottawa) around ottawa enter to win! there are two trim your tree family craft workshops happening at the nepean visual arts centre this year – on december 1 and 8th. currently, the december 1st time is full, but there is a waitlist and spots are limited for the december 8th class. book yours today! enter to win your way into the sold out trim your tree workshop on december 1! just like little holiday elves, your family will love the diy craft time hosted at the nepean visual arts centre in nepean. you may remember a few years ago my family went and we loved it. the kids were surprised with hot chocolates and all of us created the cutest reindeer that still remain a significant part of our christmas decorating! we loved the bonding time and i think you and your family will too (or maybe you and your friend want to take your kids, or maybe you and your sisters, or grandparents – there are endless combinations of who you can bring!) but registration is for four people (and one needs to be an adult) during the workshop you’ll make some holiday crafts together that you can keep and cherish for years to come. enter to win a family holiday craft workshop in #ottawa on december 1 thanks to the nepean visual arts centre via @bitofmomsense click to tweet view this post on instagram a post shared by rebecca s (@bitofmomsense) on nov 26, 2016 at 1:00pm pst if you want to win your way into the december 1 workshop, read on! the nepean visual arts centre is offering one spot (for four people) to a lucky blog reader! think your kids will love this event (like mine did!) to enter, comment below and tell me your favourite holiday tradition! you and your family have the chance to win 4 seats at the upcoming trim your tree workshop on december 1st! more details are on their website. giveaway is open to ottawa area residents and is non-transferable with no cash value. this is for one family admission to the workshop (four people) on december 1st, between 1 pm and 3 pm. giveaway ends on november 19th, 9 pm est. (update – i’ve extended the time to 9 pm because i’m not around most of the day monday!) rebecca 3 min read april 20, 2018 no reply an obstacle course for the entire family in ottawa around ottawa ocr academy ottawa is a blog advertiser. what if i told you there’s a place in ottawa where you can go work out, and bring the kids so they can be active too? and that this place has an obstacle course that everyone in the family (over the age of 7) can participate in? if this excites you, look no further than ocr academy in ottawa. here are some reasons why you’ll want to check out ocr academy with the kids: getting the kids moving i love play places that keep the kids busy and active. the goal is usually to tire them out, but when there’s a challenge for them (especially as they get older and want to try new things) this is a bonus too. ocr academy looks like it’s a place to not only have fun, but to really push some physical limits and i know for some kids that’s important to them in their classes and free time. check out their obstacle fit kids for programming details. fitness as a family over the years, we’ve discovered that being active together as a family is a big deal, and a big reason why i manage to fit a workout into my life at all is because i like doing it together. i don’t love running by myself or hitting the gym, but finding something we can do together that is healthy? sign me up. that’s why i know so many families will be drawn to this aspect of ocr academy. there are open family gym times to welcome everyone to run the obstacle course or do some weight lifting and other activities together. and parents and kids can each sign up for their own training sessions and while you won’t do them together, when you are done, you can give each other high fives and compare fitbit stats. or, do what i would prefer to do, and grab a snack in the coffee shop. which brings me to the next point. the coffee shop the coffee shop at ocr academy isn’t your typical one. head over to check out their menu options. there’s butter coffee, snacks filled with protein, and looks like a great place for parents to hang out while waiting for your child to be done with their program. you can grab a refreshing, re-hydrating drink, and yes, you can find a treat too, like donuts. summer camp i hear from friends and fellow parents all the time that finding a camp that their child wants to go to, that they will love, and that will keep them active in the summer isn’t always easy. it’s one reason why i love sharing camp finds on this blog so much. add another option to your list with ocr academy. they are offering week-long camps all summer long for kids aged 7-13. you can find out more about what the camp offers or sign up your kiddo before your preferred week fills up by visiting their website. other things to know ocr academy is located on morrison drive in ottawa’s west end. you can book birthday parties at ocr academy. you can find more information about their programs and facilities on their website or follow them on instagram. disclosure: ocr academy is a blog advertiser. this post is meant for information only. rebecca 2 min read march 30, 2018 no reply easter activities to do that don’t involve bunnies or eggs parenting i recently wrote an article on savvymom for people in ottawa about easter activities that include fun easter egg hunts, easter crafts for kids and more at local museums and activity centres. however, if you aren’t celebrating easter, or already have your easter activities lined up, there are other ways to spend the long weekend as a family and still get out of the house for a bit. below i’m sharing a few suggestions for you to consider if you want to fill the time this weekend but don’t want to see another pastel anything for a while. 1- go to the movies right now, there are many family friendly movies playing. plus, it’s always a good time to see black panther again (or for the first time if you haven’t already!) 2- find a sugar bush this won’t help if you are trying to avoid the crowds this weekend, but it’s still maple syrup season and i’m not sure there is anything better than fresh syrup (or maple candy. drool). 3- go for a nature walk pull on the rubber boots (and splash pants) and head for a nature walk on a local path. if the snow has started melting in your area, it may mean a messy, muddy walk, but it also means you can chat with the kids about the emerging plant life, the animals coming out of hibernation and more. 4- go for a drive we like to hit the road in one direction or another for short drives on weekends like this. we often end up somewhere to eat (or at a bakery) and explore some of our favourite neighbourhoods and town we haven’t been to in the winter because of timing or weather. 5- indulge in a treat sure, snow may be on the ground, but that doesn’t mean you can’t have ice cream. easter weekend often kicks off our upcoming ‘warm weather’ ice cream addiction. if you have a favourite haunt, why not indulge in a special long weekend treat together. ways to get out as a family this long weekend that aren’t easter themed via @bitofmomsense click to tweet rebecca 2 min read february 12, 2018 no reply how your kids can have a creative march break around ottawa march break camps at the nepean creative arts centre and nepean visual arts centre march break camp options for creative kids in #ottawa via @bitofmomsense click to tweet march break in the ottawa area is quickly approaching, and if you are struggling with booking a camp for the kids, it may be time to check out the nepean creative arts centre and the nepean visual arts centre. having a creative outlet for their week of march break might be the perfect way for the kids to try something new, express themselves and connect with new friends. below i’ve listed a few sessions that i think would appeal to kids of different ages (they are for kids aged 6-11, depending on the course). at the time of writing this, i selected classes that still had space left (some other sessions that looked really great are already full, so if you miss out for march break, remember that there will be summer camps offered too!) i love that each one is a bit different but still creative. hands-on art programming, dance, and theatre (including musical theatre!) might be just what your child hoped to do during their break. some camps are four days, others are for the entire five-day week. drawing, painting and sculpture – kids aged 6-9 “explore your imagination through scultpure, drawing and painting. let your creativity flow as you use different techniques and materials to learn advanced methods and explore new skills.” want to register? click here. urban dance camp, for kids aged 6-9 “this unique style of dance incorporates hip-hop, breakdancing, pop’n lock, and freestyle. master the dance moves from each style in a fun and energetic class.” want to register? click here. theatre camp, for kids aged 7-11 “camp meets arts collective. expand your dramatic skills by exploring character development, voice, movement and performance techniques – while giving theatrical expression to your ideas. performance on the last day in the theatre.” want to register? click here. musical theatre camp, kids aged 7-11 (note – this is a four day camp) “from act one to curtain call! learn vocal techniques, singing, choreography, acting, and a broadway-style song and dance.” want to register? click here. nepean creative arts centre is a blog advertiser. all opinions are my own. rebecca 3 min read december 1, 2017 no reply when your child wants to try a new activity in ottawa, try these around ottawa, parenting winter registration has begun. is your child looking to try a new activity? if you are planning out your winter activities with the kids, you may be looking at the seemingly popular and most often chatted about ones like indoor soccer, skating or gymnastics. but if you want a new experience for the kids, turn to the nepean creative arts centre and the nepean visual arts centre for ideas that will interest your children of any age (including your teen!) for some kids, they just don’t love team sports. for others, they are creative and looking for an outlet for that creativity. in many cases, these activities are in addition to swim lessons, hockey, dance and other sports. it’s an amazing feeling to be able to have so many options in this city that we can provide our kids with a variety of choices that help support their interests. not sure what those ideas are? here are some classes from the winter program that really caught my eye. thinking about what my own children would like, these stood out as having the potential to really captivate kids of many ages. looking for a creative class for your child this winter? you’ll love the @ncac-cacn options! #ottawa via @bitofmomsense click to tweet cartooning and comics ages 9-12 at the nepean visual arts centre. kids will study figures and facial expressions, and will draw and animate their characters! pottery – hand building ages 8-12 at the nepean visual arts centre. your kids will get hands-on and sculpt their own creation! pottery – wheel want to try an activity together? check out the parent and teen pottery wheel class at the nepean visual arts centre! this is for your child aged 11-14 and you! mixed media art ages 6-8. enjoy learning to draw, paint and a variety of other art techniques. this would be a great way for your child to try a little bit of everything! theatre – kinders ages 4-6. through storytelling, dance and music, children will learn to work together, speak on stage and more. at the nepean creative arts centre theatre – live wire children aged 7-12 can try their hand at improv, acting, drama and more on stage at the nepean creative arts centre. the science of movie making using green screen and other digital technologies, kids aged 11-14 can produce a short film and learn about the behind the scenes movie tricks that help bring their favourite films to life. don’t these sound like fun? there are various days of the week and times when these classes are being offered but i love how original and unique they are. no matter what your choose, i hope your child has fun! disclosure: nepean creative arts centre and nepean visual arts centre are blog advertisers. this post is intended for information purposes. rebecca 3 min read november 17, 2017 no reply 25 days of christmas: activity advent calendar 2017 parenting i have joked that my son needs an advent calendar for his advent calendar. he is so excited for december 1. and i don’t blame him. the beginning of december marks a turn for all of us. not only can we open up our advent calendars (and i have a few on the go this year) but it begins a month filled with tradition, family, fun and of course magic. this is one reason why i love continuing with our activity calendar. this tradition began years ago after i read about the idea from a fellow ottawa blogger (miss fish!) when my children were little and i keep it up each year. it helps guide us and ground us during an already busy season. last year, i shared some tricks when it comes to the calendar that has helped me, so i’ll repeat those here: a) don’t put dates on the activities. you may need to switch them up once and a while if something changes, illness hits etc. b) stock up on the stuff you need for each activities like hot chocolate or craft supplies. c) check your family calendar and add in activities to the 25 days countdown list that you already know you’ll be doing – like santa letters or a family visit. this list is also created in close consultation with my calendar based on days of the week– some activities can’t be done easily on a weekday so i made sure they were on the weekend. what’s most important about this calendar isn’t that you put too much effort into crafting the perfect activity, it’s that as a family you come together and take a few moments each day to celebrate and spend time doing something together that is festive, fun and family oriented. that’s probably why i love it so much. as with other years, this is the little holder we have but in the past we’ve done envelopes, little clothes pins etc. each year, the list has grown with my kids, so some activities have changed (and of course, our list is personalized to our local activities). you can easily find your local events to swap in. for previous lists click here. our family’s 2017 advent activity calendar! 1. write and mail letters to santa. 2. go get the christmas tree! 3. family trip to chateau montebello 4. decorate the christmas tree! 5. sing jingle bells 6. make paper snowflakes and decorate the windows 7. play a christmas scavenger hunt and find a special surprise. (readers – this is often their christmas pjs!) 8. go to the cumberland heritage museum village of lights 9.sing frosty the snowman 10. make hot chocolate and listen to christmas carols. 11. make a ginger bread house! 12. dessert for supper, supper for dessert! 13. buy and bring toys to toy mountain 14. make a list of ten things we are thankful for. hang it where you can see it every day. 15. go for a drive to see christmas lights (taffy lane!) 16. decorate christmas cookies! 17. christmas pj party! stay in your pjs all day, watch christmas shows, read christmas stories and snuggle! 18. deliver food to the local food bank collection. 19. sing we wish you a merry christmas! 20. make a holiday ornament 21. bring in snow and make maple taffy! 22. go to wesley clover parks magic of lights 23. bake christmas cookies and deliver some to your friends and family 24. unwrap one present (mommy and daddy get to pick which one) 25. it’s christmas day. remember you have a family who loves you. and that’s the most important gift of all. rebecca 2 min read september 25, 2017 no reply free activities to do with the kids in ottawa in october around ottawa it’s always nice to head out for a walk in the fall, or visit the latest museum exhibit (which helps when we have a family pass), but all of the activities that we want to do with the kids can become costly. i’ll be sharing other events that may have admission prices later this month, but first, let’s reduce the activity budget a bit. that’s why i’ve rounded up a few activities you can do with the kids this month that are free! everyone loves free, right? free activities for kids in #ottawa this october via @bitofmomsense click to tweet cumberland heritage village museum – harvest market when: october 1 the cumberland farmers’ market is setting up at the cumberland heritage village museum on october 1 and offering free entry to the museum. this is the perfect time to let the kids explore, plus pick up some local bites for at home! gymboree sleep seminar and play date when: october 13, 2 pm – 3 pm free for children under 2, gymboree is opening its doors for little ones to come play while mom and dad learn about baby sleep during the sleep seminar! cineplex and we – free community movie day when: october 14 notes: concessions will cost $2 more details about what movies and times will be available are coming soon, but save the date for a free family movie! mosaicanada when: until october 15. you know how much i loved this exhibit of art and plants combined. it runs only until october 15 and is free to enter! of course, october is the month of halloween activities, and thanksgiving plans, but these event dates that i listed are one-off events that your family may not want to miss! i hope you are able to check one or two of them out, for free, and enjoy something new. rebecca 3 min read may 2, 2017 no reply family activities to do in ottawa in may around ottawa what to do with the kids in ottawa this may if we look past the puddles and moisture across the city of ottawa thanks to some rainy days, we can feel the warmth of the sunny spring days that are here every so often. it means that we are all emerging outdoors more, that the kids are getting ready for their spring activities, and that school events are picking up as they look to the end of the year. it also means that ottawa is filled with fun, family activities to do together, both inside and outside. i love this time of year! i’ve put together a list that includes some exciting activities, events and festivals that you might be interested in noting in your calendars! may 4: upper canada village opens we always enjoy going to upper canada village. it’s filled with interesting historical artifacts and plenty of hands on fun. plus, the fresh bread! their new season opens on may 4. keep an eye out for special weekend events that will be taking place. may 7: summer market opens at lansdowne may is the season when most of the local farmers’ markets open (yay!) but i am making a special note about lansdowne’s summer market because it’s a great place to go with kids. there always seems to be a lot for the kiddos to check out, plus the nearby play park is work stopping at. may 10-14: ottawa children’s festival when i went with my kids a few years ago, this festival really stood out for me. it was a blast that incorporated the arts, live performances, music, hands-on entertainment and visually stunning attractions along the way. if you haven’t been, you’ll want to check it out. may 12-22: ottawa tulip festival the ottawa tulip festival is more than just pretty flowers (although, they are definitely worth going to see!). now, the festival boosts activities for families that run well into the evening (fireworks!) and more. check out the full event line up for details on everything that is taking place during the festival, or at the very least, map out where you want to go snap a few photos in front of the gorgeous tulips. may 12: ottawa champions home opener it’s baseball season around here. my son begins little league this week, and there are few days when a baseball game isn’t on tv in the house. it also means that this month the ottawa champions will be back for another season. it’s affordable family fun, plus, i’m a sucker for ballpark eats! may 13: ottawa bird day from 10 am until 1 pm at brewer park on may 13, you and your bird-loving family can head to ottawa bird day. it’s hosted by nature canada and among the activities i think kids will love the birds of prey demonstration. may 18: science by night at the canadian museum of nature this free event in the evening of may 18 at the canadian museum of nature is for all ages (although it says their programming is geared to adults, and there is a cash bar, kids are welcome if parents think they’ll be interested.) the line up of hands-on activities and demonstrations looks interesting! there’s even live music. what to do as a family in ottawa in the month of may via @bitofmomsense click to tweet rebecca 1 min read february 28, 2017 no reply activity: make your own cup and ball activities and crafts my kids have a funny thing that they love – it’s a cup and ball. when we had gone to a fort a couple years ago, they had them to try there, and of course, because we are all competitive just a tiny bit, we were determined to get the ball into that cup! it was a lot of fun. then, santa brought my eldest a cup and ball for christmas. we even had a cup and ball tournament at my parent’s house. it’s silly, old fashioned fun and i love that the simple toy brings them so much joy. when my younger nephews or nieces come over, it’s always an item that is intriguing to them, but the hard wooden ball can hurt tiny noggins if they whip it around too much. so, we make our own cup and balls for the little kiddos to practice with. here’s how: you’ll need: a paper cup a large pom pom string or yarn a wooden bead (if you are making this with a little one and are worried about the bead, use yarn for your string and tie a large knot to prevent it from slipping) directions: simple tie one end of the string around the pom pom. poke a small hole in the bottom of the cup. pull the non-pom pom end of the string through and secure with the bead (or extra knot) voila! you have a cup and ball! have fun! older entries facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.