adbusters manifesto contact usget involved spoof ads articles mind journeys #blackspot collectiveculture shopsubscribedonate adbusters menu manifestospoof adsarticlesmind journeysget involved culture shopsubscribedonateblackspot collectivecontact us join us: thank you! your submission has been received! oops! something went wrong while submitting the form. the delusion of economics human beings are in a state of denial about the calamity of calamities our economy is actively engineering. unfortunately, we needn’t look far to find one of its major sources, namely, the modern study of economics (in particular, economics 101). each year, millions of students have their noses forced into textbooks that investigate or illuminate no causal connection extending from the economy to the ecosphere. (in this formulation, the environment provides fuel for industry, but suffers no return impact from it.) we’ve known for...continue reading... our latest articles surviving the plague ordinary life was suspended during the epidemic. when it finally ended, about 12 per cent of the population of florence had died. this was a considerably lower mortality rate than other italian cities: in venice 33 per cent of the population; in milan 46 per cent; while the mortality rate in verona was 61 per cent. was the disease less virulent in florence or ...read more hope in the time of covid-19 does the contagion have a silver lining? "today’s emerging pandemic could help catalyze an urgently needed tipping event in humanity’s collective moral values, priorities and sense of self and community. it could remind us of our common fate on a small, crowded planet with dwindling resources and fraying natural systems."read more can we break the spell? at its start, the internet was still relatively scarce, in the sense that we generally wanted more of it everywhere. iphones were new; we were still excited about carrying portals to that utopia in our pockets and finding new ways to integrate two domains that were previously separate. ten years ago, i could sit in a bar and wish that it better reflected the future i was experiencing.read more the war on words brutal days, to be resisted, often demand brutality inkind. in such times, marked as they are by the fear anduncertainty that naturally metastasize out of truth’s debasement, there is but one bold act from which all other acts of dissent may precede. that is to tell — with utter, brutal frankness — the truth.read more we know so little look up on a cloudless night and you might see the light from a star thousands of trillions of miles away, or pick out the craters left by asteroid strikes on the moon’s face. look down and your sight stops at topsoil, tarmac, toe. i have rarely felt as far from the human realm as when only ten yards below it, caught in the shining jaws of a limestone bedding plane first formed on the floor of an ancient sea.read more the meaning of life there is the dream of an alternate aesthetic, of a world in which aestheticized experience worked only on things that were ordinary, local, small, repetitive, and recalcitrant, on things that really did happen to most of us in the everyday. this would imply a challenge to drama as we know it.read more see all articles underlandtake the journey see all mind journeys spoof ads see all spoof ads adbusters #148 - birth of the mental liberation front! subscribe now! current issue adbusters #148 birth of the mental liberation front get this issue if you want to fix democracy, make secrecy taboo. if you want to stop the media mindfuck, impose a psychic tax. if you want to rein in the power of corporations, kill the corporate “i”. if you want to fix the economy, pull off a paradigm shift in the science of economics. if you want to halt global warming, make the price of products tell the ecological truth. and if you want to stop our spiral into a long dark age, then admit that straight lines are godless and immoral. there's only one way out of the existential fix we're in. in this issue, we unleash a force to crack the global mind. welcome to the mental liberation front. ‍ join us send your photographs and artwork here . . . your writings and poetry here subscribe to our magazine here join the blackspot collective here visit our culture shop here donate to our movement here the metamemetic insurrection mind journeys campaigns nov 12: #nologonovemberread more the harvard walkout: ‘israeli officials will eventually speak to empty venues’ currently 12000+ people strong! sign up to receive tactical briefings about our upcoming activist campaigns from abillionpeople.org yes, i want to be one in a billion! full wolf moonday the true cost party of americafind out how adbusters is one of a handful of magazines in the world that receives zero funding from advertising (print or online), corporate sponsorship or government/foundation grants. we are entirely reader-supported, allowing us to remain fiercely independent in what we do and say. we operate as a non-profit organization, which means that every dollar we raise through the sales of our magazines and other merchandise goes directly back into our campaigns and the production of the magazine. when you subscribe to adbusters, you are joining a network of artists and activists committed to speaking truth to power around the world. manifestocontact usjoin us spoof adsarticlesmind journeys subscribeback issuesreprints culture shopdonatesubmissions #blackspot collectivefaqs +1 (604)-736-9401 info@adbusters.org © adbusters 1989 - 2020 feedback: you love us? have something interesting to say? let us know!