skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar wp sites 2609 original genesis tutorials & 5000+ guaranteed code snippets support newsletter register videos log in premium member? - request custom code add custom fonts to the wordpress editor this tutorial shows you how to add custom fonts to your editor in wordpress. there’s 4 steps you need to take after installing the fonts plugin. the 1st step is to load your custom fonts for use on the front end of your site: the following example loads the trash hand custom font: register for full access related tutorials add google web fonts to your wordpress editor reader interactions comments carla hall says july 9, 2018 at 10:54 am is there a way to install a custom font to my editor by using a css editor plugin, instead of touching the css directly? thanks, carla log in to reply brad dalton says july 9, 2018 at 10:59 am i think you could use the code in the 5th step if your plugin already loads the font as long as it’s loaded in the backend as well, otherwise, use the 4th and 5th steps. log in to reply carla hall says july 17, 2018 at 1:35 pm i’ll try it – thanks! log in to reply shinecrusaders says november 6, 2016 at 5:05 pm nice! thanks. log in to reply shinecrusaders says november 6, 2016 at 10:12 am hi brad, a couple of questions after installing your plugin: 1. is the code for steps 1 (front end) and 4 (back end) both going into the functions.php file in child theme root after //* enqueue scripts and styles ? 2. with step 5 where is that going? somewhere in the fonts.php for your plugin i’ve loaded into my wp site? thanks in advance for any insight/clarification you can offer! victor log in to reply brad dalton says november 6, 2016 at 4:13 pm hi victor all the php code goes into the end of your child themes functions file and the css goes in your child theme’s style.css file. log in to reply leave a reply cancel reply you must be logged in to post a comment. primary sidebar search genesis tutorials recent code snippets custom fields on agentpress search results page add custom field support to agentpress listings cpt video with featured image poster in genesis featured videos on archive pages in genesis different featured image for archive pages in genesis how it works : i write tutorials for you which include the custom code you need for a flat $49.99 fee. you get 1 tutorial request, installation support and code guarantee for all snippets. advertise · wpengine · genesis · log in premium members only sign up support subscription details tagged by theme