petapixel news equipment tutorials archives send a tip links about contact advertise privacy policy full disclosure search type here what you are looking for search 500 k 1 m facebook 500 k / likes twitter 1 m / followers adobe offers students free at-home access to creative cloud apps amid coronavirus closures mar 13, 2020 dl cade share tweet 0 in response to requests from educators, adobe has announced that it will be providing free at-home access to creative cloud apps to those students who usually only have access on-campus. it’s one way the software maker is trying to empower students to keep learning amid campus closures caused by the novel coronavirus. “with many schools facing physical campus closures and moving to online learning due to covid-19, we’re announcing that we’re giving greater access to adobe creative cloud desktop apps to facilitate distance learning,” reads the announcement. “we believe that doing so will make it possible to keep coursework, teamwork, and student progress on track through at-home access to creative cloud for students and educators.” higher education and k-12 institutions that pay for on-campus access for their students simply need to request “temporary ‘at-home’ access” through this link. once verified, access will be granted, free of charge, through may 31st, 2020. “as our education customers work to ensure both safety and learning continuity in their communities, it is our goal to help them with the tools they need to move through these uncertain times,” continues the post. “our commitment to do so in a seamless way continues to be unwavering.” photo by szabo viktor, cc0 the story of how this update came to be is almost as good as the news itself. rc concepcion, a professor at the newhouse school of public communications at syracuse university, can be credited with helping to catalyze this change by simply… asking adobe for help. “we have been running around—as every other university—quickly coming up w an action plan to keep serving our students through covid-19,” concepcion tells petapixel. “teaching communications, we rely a huge amount on adobe sofware—reporters, cinematographers , photographers, designers. it dawned on me that a lot of student access was here at school and that with any students at universities, there would be many that couldn’t afford using the software.” so he got on twitter and just asked. 5 minutes later, he received a response from adobe vp of creative cloud mala sharma thanking him for connecting; 48 hours later, adobe officially announced free at-home access for students. thanks for reaching out @aboutrc with your concern for your students 48 hours ago. we hope students and faculty will benefit from having access to @creativecloud to continue learning and creating. stay safe and healthy! thanks @adobeforedu team for pulling this off rapidly. — mala sharma (@malasharma) march 13, 2020 “adobe is a big company, but in my experiences with them they’ve always shown support in areas of community good. from helping out senior citizens on projects i’ve come up with, to supporting initiatives in teaching young students in laos southeast asia – there’s never been a time where their response hasn’t been one of wanting to help,” says concepcion. “i’m proud that, in this effort, they shown that they can move quickly and do their part to help bring some normalcy and creativity to a special group of people in our community. students.” to learn more about this program and some of the other ways adobe is trying to minimize the creative disruption caused by the virus, head over to the adobe blog or the adobe support site. update on 3/18/20: adobe is now giving all subscribers 2 months of creative cloud subscription for free, regardless of educational status. image credits: header photo by buro millennial, cc0 tags: adobe, athome, coronavirus, covid, covid19, creativecloud, education, novelcoronavirus, software, students share tweet 0 please enable javascript to view the comments powered by disqus. prev in-depth breakdown shows how to properly weather-seal a camera next how to turn a portable scanner into a digital back for large format cameras trending posts photos of the robots living among us mar 25, 2020 sony spins off camera business into separate company mar 26, 2020 adobe is giving everyone 2 months of free creative cloud — here’s how to get it mar 18, 2020 a boston event photographer shares her story of contracting covid-19 mar 24, 2020 21 portrait photography lessons from 21 great photographers mar 25, 2020 nat geo: those viral animal photos you’ve been seeing on twitter are fake mar 24, 2020 the library of fake ‘travel photos’ in asia mar 24, 2020 photographer died protecting his film during the 1980 mt. st. helens eruption sep 07, 2011 ilford: stockpile rolls of film, not toilet paper mar 25, 2020 70 inspirational quotes for photographers may 29, 2014 polaroid originals reclaims ‘polaroid’ name, unveils polaroid now camera mar 26, 2020 drone photos of singapore shot at 1,640 feet mar 23, 2020 i used my drone to take fun portraits of people in self-isolation 7 hours ago nikon z vs nikon d: a comparison mar 24, 2020 portraits in the time of coronavirus: shooting free front porch photo sessions mar 25, 2020 the supreme court just decided that states cannot be sued for copyright infringement mar 23, 2020 how to turn your bedroom into a giant camera and use it to make pictures mar 24, 2020 eerie drone footage of an empty san francisco during quarantine mar 26, 2020 adobe offers students free at-home access to creative cloud apps amid coronavirus closures mar 13, 2020 this obstacle avoiding drone is so fast it can play dodgeball mar 25, 2020 archives news gear inspiration tutorials reviews archives podcast copyright © 2020 petapixel subscribe our newsletter to stay up to date 500 k 1 m