login home workout program private coaching free resources courses & training about nf latest posts log in home workout program private coaching free resources courses & training about nf latest posts advanced bodyweight workout circuit: a full body routine you can do at home by steve kamb • last updated: march 17, 2020 • 205 comments want to get strong but hate the gym? no problem! with today’s advanced bodyweight routine, you can burn fat, build muscle, and get a great workout in! all with no gym membership required! it’s the kind of workout we build through our online coaching program. if you’re in a hurry, sign-up for our free weekly newsletter and we’ll send you pdfs of our “work out at home” guides! download our free home workout guides! if you’re ready, click the sections below to get right into the action: advanced bodyweight workout video 21 best advanced bodyweight exercises how to scale your bodyweight workout what’s next after the advanced bodyweight workout? you might have come to this article through our beginner bodyweight workout; if so, welcome! if you didn’t, i’d recommend starting there before moving onto this routine, because this is uber-advanced and designed for nerds looking for a brutally difficult challenge. note: if you’re here because your gym is shut down due to the outbreak of covid-19, check out our guide “how to stay in shape (while staying inside).” the advanced bodyweight workout this is the advanced bodyweight workout (do 3 circuits): 10 one-legged squats – each side 20 bodyweight squats 20 walking lunges (10 each leg) 20 jump step-ups (10 each leg) 10 pull-ups (or inverted bodyweight rows using your kitchen table) 10 dips – bar stools 10 chin-ups (or inverted bodyweight rows with underhand grip) 10 push-ups 30 second plank see our section below on advanced bodyweight exercises to see how to do each of these movements! i do use a door-frame pull-up bar in the video, but you can do table bodyweight rows (see the video below) if you can’t do a pull-up yet or if you don’t have a pull-up bar! lastly: this workout will have you sweating like a pig and leave you sore all over the next day. if you’re just moving beyond the beginner bodyweight workout for the first time, this workout might seem ridiculously difficult, which is fine. the goal will be to go through as many circuits as you can without breaking form. “what is a ‘circuit’?” in a circuit routine, you’ll do each exercise in succession without a break in between (if you’re able). once you’ve finished all exercises in the circuit, do it again. if you’re still able after the 2nd run through, go for a 3rd. because all of these exercises come one after another, you’re bound to get tired – that’s okay! our goal is to give you a full-body workout that leaves you panting. “how long should a bodyweight workout last?” go at your own pace, but the above 3 circuits and your warm-up and cool down will take you about 25-30 minutes. and speaking of warming up and cooling down… before you start, do a warm-up: don’t forget to warm up. you can run in place, jump rope, do a few push-ups, pedal on a stationary bike, jog up and down your stairs, etc. since we are doing advanced movements here, the warm-up becomes even more critical. also, if you want to stretch and cool down after your workout, here’s a routine you can run through: if you are following this bodyweight workout plan because you’re trying to get in great shape without needing a gym, download our free-guide: strength training 101: everything you need to know. it’ll provide an exact plan to follow for growing strong. download our comprehensive guide strength training 101! everything you need to know about getting strong. workout routines for bodyweight and weight training. how to find the right gym and train properly in one. the 21 best advanced bodyweight exercises let’s go through each movement in the advanced bodyweight workout circuit, so we can ensure you’re doing each move correctly! 1) bodyweight squat if you want even more instruction, here’s how to do a proper bodyweight squat: 2) assisted one legged squat 3) one legged squat (pistol squat) 4) walking lunge 5) jump step-ups 6) assisted pull-ups (with band) a resistance band is a great tool to help build strength for proper pull-ups. it’s part of our arsenal for getting your first pull-up. 7) negative pull-ups if you don’t have a resistance band, you can do negative pull-ups instead. jump and hold yourself above the bar, and then slowly, under control, lower yourself to the ‘starting position’ of a pull-up. then repeat! this is a great way to build up enough strength to eventually get your first pull-up. 8) pull-up we have a full guide on proper pull-up form so you can hone in your technique. 9) chin-ups much like a pull-up, but with your palms facing toward you. here’s a video going over proper pull-up and chin-up form: if you can’t do pull-ups or chin-ups, you have another option… 10) inverted bodyweight row (overhand) an inverted bodyweight row can be a great “pull” exercise if you can’t do a pull-up yet, or if you don’t have a proper pull-up bar nearby. because a good sturdy table can be used for inverted rows: 11) inverted bodyweight row (underhand) 12) assisted bodyweight dips with a resistance band, you can start performing assisted dips. a great exercise while you build up strength for normal dips. 13) bodyweight dips 14) knee push-up 15) elevated push-up 16) regular push-up we have a whole article on how to do a proper push-up, but we also cover it extensively in this 5-minute video: 17) decline push-ups 18) knee plank 19) plank 20) side plank 21) jumping jacks if you are looking for even more bodyweight exercises you can use in your workouts, make sure to check out our mega-resource: “the 42 best bodyweight exercises you can do anywhere.“ get your nerd fitness starter kit the 15 mistakes you don’t want to make. full guide to the most effective diet and why it works. complete and track your first workout today, no gym required. how to scale your bodyweight routine as i said earlier, this whole routine is scalable based on your ability. for example, here is a sample routine for somebody who has conquered the beginner bodyweight workout but can’t do the full routine above: 10 bodyweight squats 10 walking lunges 15 jump ups 3 assisted pull-ups (or 6 inverted bodyweight rows – overhand grip on table) 8 dips (or 10 decline push-ups if these are too tough) 3 assisted chin-ups (or 6 inverted bodyweight rows – underhand grip on table) 10 push-ups 30 second plank 30 jumping jacks “what if the advanced bodyweight workout is too easy for me?” hm, well then, can you do 4 circuits instead of 3? or have you tried a circuit that would make you worthy of a spartan? whatever your fitness level, find a way to push yourself a little harder, get better, be faster, and grow stronger. it’s a message we really strike home in our guide on tracking your fitness progress. keep track of your exact routine, how long it took you, which exercises wore you out, exactly how many reps you did, etc. then make sure you do more next time! “how often should i do the advanced bodyweight workout?” do this routine 2-3 times a week, but never on consecutive days. it’s a message we really strike home in our guide, “how often should i work out?” you don’t build muscle when you’re exercising, you build muscle when you’re resting, so try not to do a strength training routine (of the same muscle groups) two days in a row. i like to follow a training pattern of: strength training on one day (like this workout). 20 minutes of interval training on the next day. back to strength training. back to interval training or rest! alternatively, pick one of these fun exercises to do on your off days instead! if you’re still uneasy about this advanced workout, start with our beginner bodyweight workout instead. you can download a worksheet to get started when you sign-up for our free weekly newsletter: grab your beginner bodyweight routine worksheet. no gym required! complete this workout at home, no equipment required avoid the common mistakes everybody makes when doing bodyweight exercises learn how to finally get your first pull-up after the advanced bodyweight workout: next steps! this should help you get started with a really powerful bodyweight training routine. but we hear frequently that people want more instruction, more guidance, and more workouts. if that’s you, we have multiple options to take the next step. pick the option below that best aligns with your goals and timeline: 1) if you want step-by-step guidance, a custom bodyweight training program that levels up as you get stronger, and a coach to keep you accountable, check out our killer 1-on-1 coaching program: our coaching program changes lives. learn how! 2) good at following instructions? check out our self-paced online course, the nerd fitness academy. the academy has 20+ workouts for both bodyweight or weight training, a benchmark test to determine your starting workout, hd demonstrations of every movement, boss battles, meal plans, a questing system, and supportive community. learn more about the nerd fitness academy! 3) join the rebellion! we need good people like you in our community, the nerd fitness rebellion. sign up in the box below to enlist and get our guide, strength training 101: everything you need to know. it’ll help you start incorporating these advanced bodyweight moves into your training. download our comprehensive guide strength training 101! everything you need to know about getting strong. workout routines for bodyweight and weight training. how to find the right gym and train properly in one. 4) level up your workout! if you’re looking for more workout routines to follow, i got you covered: how to get started with gymnastic rings: learn to train with gymnastic rings so you can eventually do epic moves like a muscle-up! how to do your first handstand: now we’re talking! learn the different progressions that will eventually have you getting your first freestanding handstand! beginner strength training workouts: start with bodyweight training and work up to barbell training! 15 circuit training routines: if you enjoyed today’s advanced circuit, i’ve got many others for you to try out! 6 levels of gym workouts: never wonder what to do in the gym again! follow these 6 levels of workouts to go from newbie to gym hero! i’d love to hear how this workout was for you. leave a comment below with your results or any questions you have on advanced bodyweight training and how else we can help. for the rebellion! -steve ps: where do you go after you’ve crushed the advanced bodyweight workout? well, have you ever heard of the plp progression? there’s really no limit on how challenging that can get. good luck! ### all photo sources can be found right here: [1] footnotes ( returns to text) scenes from an empty lot in brooklyn, hanging, b-girl, breakdance, fly. get the rebel starter kit enter your email and we’ll send it right over. the 15 mistakes you don’t want to make. the most effective diet and why it works. complete your first workout today, no gym required. these are the tools you need to start your quest. site signup url signup post id site signup url signup post id classic posts welcome to nerd fitness i'm steve kamb. i'm a nerd. i deadlift. nerd fitness helps desk jockeys, nerds, and average joes level up their lives. there’s a lot of b.s. out there about fitness. we’re working to put a stop to it. about the rebellion home academy login join the rebellion at nerd fitness! blog community free resources search archives contact © 2020 nerd fitness. all rights reserved. terms and conditions | privacy policy