skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download advanced ads for wpbakery page builder by thomas maier, hans-lukas herse details reviews support development description this plugin combines the wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) and the advanced ads ad management plugin in order to integrate ads and banners into websites built with that page builder. please notice that wpbakery page builder is this plugin on codecanyon, formerly called visual composer. ad management features advanced ads is a powerful, but easy to use ad management plugin. among the many features, you can: manage all kinds of ads like google adsense, google ad manager, amazon, taboola, tradedoubler, getyourguide, booking.com, ezoic, media.net, the moneytizer, infolinks, content.ad, awin and any other custom code show ads for mobile/desktop users only automatically inject ads into content, e.g. after specific paragraphs, headlines or images use pro visitor conditions like browser width, geo location, browser language and many more benefit from dedicated google adsense support for all ad types (e.g. adsense in.feed, adsense in.article, adsense matched content, adsense link unit, adsense auto ads) instructions after activating this plugin, as well as wpbakery page builder and advanced ads, you should find three new elements in the editor: advanced ads – ad advanced ads – group advanced ads – placement each of them corresponds to the according element in advanced ads. you only need to enter the ids/slug of that element to show it in the wpbakery page builder. all elements are also grouped into the ads tab. detailed instructions with images where to find the ids? ads: open the ad edit screen and stop the wizard, if active. you should now see the ad id below the ad title. groups: the group id is listed in the details column of the ad group list. placement: create a manual placement. open the list of placements and click on show usage below the placement’s name. extract the id from the id attribute in the shortcode field screenshots new ad elements added to the ad group in wpbakery page builder reviews been looking for an ad inserter dragoon90 january 7, 2017 been looking for an easy ad inserter, and this one seems the best i have found, and it works perfectly. read all 1 review contributors & developers “advanced ads for wpbakery page builder” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors thomas m advanced ads “advanced ads for wpbakery page builder” has been translated into 2 locales. thank you to the translators for their contributions. translate “advanced ads for wpbakery page builder” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 1.0.5 minor coding optimizations tested with wp 5.1 1.0.4 updated reference to visual composer, now wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) 1.0.3 made the plugin translation ready finally 1.0.2 made the plugin translation ready 1.0.1 fixed a bug when only vc ads is enabled, but not visual composer itself 1.0 first version meta version: 1.0.5 last updated: 4 months ago active installations: 4,000+ wordpress version: 4.5 or higher tested up to: 5.3.2 languages: see all 3 close english (canada), english (us), and german. translate into your language tags: adsfrontend editorpage buildervisual composerwpbakery advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 1 4 stars 0 3 stars 0 2 stars 0 1 star 0 contributors thomas m advanced ads support issues resolved in last two months: 1 out of 1 view support forum about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.