the adventure blog news, commentary, and insights on adventures, and adventurers, from around the globe. menu home contact us reaching beyond boundaries menu adventure quickies: keen gives away 100,000 pairs of shoes, funny adventure books, and more posted on march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 by kraig becker my “adventure quickies” post is suppose to be a weekly round-up of stories that i haven’t had time or space to cover elsewhere on the blog. considering the current state of affairs though, there hasn’t been much to discuss in general over the past few weeks. still, here are a few items from the adventure and exploration world that you may have missed in recent days. keen gives away 100,000 pairs of shoes: last week i posted a story about how keen footwear was taking suggestions from its community on people who were in need and could use a new pair of shoes. at the time, the submission form had been shut down due to some nefarious activity. but the smart minds at keen figured out how to secure the process and got things back up and running not long after. in less than a week, the company had hit its goal and shipped 100,000 pairs of shoes to those in need around the world. congrats and a big thank you to my friends at the company. exweb lists funniest adventure books: we’re all looking for things to keep us occupied at the moment, and explorers web is here to help. the site recently posted a list of the 12 funniest adventure books, with some real classics to add to your library. options include the ascent of the rum doodle, the innocents abroad, and the sex lives of cannibals. global rescue launches coronavirus intelligence center: wondering where you can turn for accurate information about the coronavirus pandemic? want a clear-cut explanation of symptoms? need daily updates on the ongoing situation? global rescue has launched a coronavirus intelligence center to help us sort through all of those things, and to better understand how the service can help in an emergency. iaato announces new executive director: the international association of antarctic tour operators (iaato) has announced the appointment of gina greer at its new executive director. she comes with a long history in business and regulatory consulting and strategic development for organizations. she’ll need all of those skills in this role moving forward as iaato—and every other travel organization—looks to navigate turbulent waters ahead. zenbivvy invites us to deign our own jackets: zenbivvy, the company behind one of the most comfortable outdoor sleep systems ever, had launched a new product line. this past week, the brand launched a fully customizable down jacket, allowing users to pick sizes from xxs to xxxl in three different fit designs and 21 different color options. start building your personal jacket here. men’s journal picks the 50 best whiskeys in the world: look, we all have to find ways to cope with our current situation. no judgement here. if your cooping mechanisms involve testing some really good whiskeys, we won’t hold it against you. before you start sipping though, you may want to check out men’s journal‘s picks for the 50 best whiskeys in the world. that’s it! stay safe and we’ll see you next week! share this: click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) click to share on pinterest (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on whatsapp (opens in new window) click to share on telegram (opens in new window) like this: like loading... leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email. notify me of new posts by email. search for: follow me on twittermy tweets theadventureblog she’s the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy. #s what if my favorite #outdoor #gear quotes is on th touring the #goretex facilities in maryland this w it’s been a minute or three since i posted, so h had a lovely stay in #portland for the new year! n did a little hiking in the presidential range toda more fron#anguilla a beautiful island with lots t scenes from the caribbean! anguilla to be exact! # load more... follow on instagram subscribe to the adventure blog by email! enter your email address: delivered by feedburner the adventure blog kraig@adventureblog.net follow us facebook twitter instagram rss feed apple google spotify ©2020 the adventure blog %d bloggers like this: