menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login advertise tiny buddha started providing a daily quote on twitter in the spring of 2008. currently, more than 3.5 million people follow the tiny buddha twitter, facebook, and google+ accounts for simple wisdom, and the number continues to grow. the website launched in september 2009, and has quickly grown into one of the most popular wisdom destinations on the web. with over 4 million page views per month and more than 2 million monthly visitors, the site continues to attract new readers and subscribers. if you’d like to reach an audience of readers who are interested in living healthier, happier, more mindful lives, feature your brand on tinybuddha.com. sponsored posts with a sponsored blog post, much like this one, you’ll reach over 113,000 email subscribers and your post will be shared across all of tiny buddha’s social media platforms. it will also live indefinitely on the blog, providing a permanent backlink, which will help your site rank higher with search engines. facebook meme shares if you’re looking to grow your facebook page, you may benefit from a daily meme share from the tiny buddha page. memes must be in line with the site’s core philosophies and be professionally designed. banner advertising run your banner ad in one of three spots on the site (all pages except the homepage). rates start at $250. for more information on any of these options, contact lori at email@tinybuddha.com with “sponsored post,” “meme share,” or “banner advertising” in the subject line. translate get more fun & inspiring images & videos. fun & inspiring do what you can disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top