home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs advertise/pr/disclosure pretty handy girl garnishes up to half a million page views per month. her posts are emailed to 9,500+ email followers. pretty handy girl has been featured in these magazines and websites. social media presence: 74,000 facebook fans | 11,400 twitter followers | 17,000 google+ followers | 20,800 instagram followers | 82,000 pinterest followers | 5,300 youtube subscribers sponsored posts and brand awareness campaigns: i do not accept payment for links. i do not accept guest posts. are you still reading? do you want your product mentioned on my blog? great! let me ask you a few questions first. is it diy or home related? can i write a valuable post or tutorial around your product? if the answer to all of these is yes, let’s talk. feel free to contact my agent: whileyouwriteagent (at) gmail.com product review policies: pretty handy girl is a pr friendly blog. i accept shipment of complimentary, diy content relevant products for my honest evaluation and review. if a product is shipped to me, there is no guarantee that a review will be written. that being said, if i choose to write a review, it will be honest but i will not write a negative review. if i don’t like a product, i won’t write a review at all. if i like a product, you can be sure my readers are gonna hear about it! you will be given notice of your product’s review. all product reviews will include a full disclosure that the item was complimentary. permission to use photos, text or ideas: please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or other), posts, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use it with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com speaking engagements: pretty handy girl is available to speak in front of your group or conference. as a licensed contractor and avid do-it-yourselfer, she regularly talks about empowering people (especially women) to take on their own diy project, the basics of power tools, how to decorate your home on a budget, giving salvage and thrift store purchases a new life and turning one man’s trash into another’s treasure. for more information, please email: whileyouwriteagent (at) gmail.com disclaimer: prettyhandygirl.com tries to give you the best and safest tutorials and fix-it information. some of the tutorials involve inherent risks. please be sure you take all safety precautions when using a power tool or other dangerous objects and read the instruction manuals to familiarize yourself before using it. recognize that pretty handy girl is not a trained professional. if you are uncertain about any project, please consult an expert before attempting any projects on this blog. in other words, please take care, i want my readers to keep all ten fingers so they can easily browse my blog! pretty handy girl will not be responsible for any injuries or damages caused by any attempts to recreate the projects listed on this blog. disclosure about advertising, sponsorship, affiliate links and paid insertions: this blog is a personal blog written and edited by me. for questions about this blog, please contact prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. this blog accepts forms of cash advertising, sponsorship, affiliate links, paid insertions or other forms of compensation. some posts contain affiliate links. i may earn a small commission when those links are clicked on and a product is purchased. there is no additional costs to you. the compensation received will never influence the content, topics or posts made in this blog. some of the advertising is in the form of advertisements generated by a third party ad network. if you ever see questionable advertising on my site, please let me know. the views and opinions expressed on this blog are purely mine. if i claim or appear to be an expert on a certain topic or product or service area, i will only endorse products or services that i believe (based on my expertise), are worthy of such endorsement. any product claim, statistic, quote or other representation about a product or service should be verified with the manufacturer or provider. this blog does not contain any content which might present a conflict of interest. – this document was last updated on may 29, 2018 comments carol bullock says july 12, 2018 at 10:23 am i’m starting a new library job in august i have only spoken with the principal about the decor but i know i want to do a reading corner like the one in your blog. who do i contact at overstock.com to inquire for their help? reply brittany bailey says august 16, 2018 at 10:21 pm carol, i’m sorry my contact is no longer at overstock.com. it was a pr person. try reaching out to them on social media. reply read more comments: « 1 … 15 16 17 leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok