email: advertise@smallbiztrends.com advertise media kit case studies contact advertise with small business trends small business trends has a highly targeted audience of more than 2 million small business owners, entrepreneurs, managers and professionals, visiting over 3 million times each month. through active participation in social media, we offer exposure to 3 million more monthly. if you would like to reach this large audience, small business trends is the place to do it. contact us your business. our audience. connect with millions of engaged small business people. tap into a targeted audience monitor performance 24/7 tap into a thriving community of entrepreneurs, owners and managers who visit regularly and engage. real time reports show how well your native ads and sponsored content are performing across the site. contact us advertising opportunities sponsored content increase your brand’s visibility and exposure by showcasing your brand around engaging content that’s relevant to a small business audience. digital magazine ads get permanent placement next to relevant content in a downloadable format. full- and half-page ads, spreads and edition sponsorships. native ads generate traffic to your website, events or offerings. organically integrated native ads capture readers’ attention. fast and easy setup. custom campaigns ask about our ebook distribution, influencer engagement, syndication of your content, and other tailored campaigns to fit your needs. all sponsored links will be nofollow. contact us plan your campaign see our media kit to get started now! small business trends is an excellent place for any brand that markets to small businesses to get increased exposure, engagement and influencer involvement. having bootstrapped my media company over the course of 15 years, my team and i are dedicated to daily engagement on this site and also on social media. our goal: build a loyal community of small business owners and managers by delivering the information they need to be successful. let us be your guide to reach a wide range of 0-to-100 employee businesses and startups, as their owners educate themselves and research products and services. with us as a partner, you gain trusted and credible access. you can also tap into a network of other small business influencers we know and work with. contact us today to talk. anita campbell founder of small business trends home advertise media kit case studies contact phone: 888.842.1186 email: advertise@smallbiztrends.com © copyright 2020 small business trends, llc – all rights reserved how can we help you today? name email message send