skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation home / advertising & sponsorship advertising & sponsorship author chris coyier comments go to comments last updated mar 5, 2020 personalized marketing with mailchimp if you have any questions at all about this, feel free to reach out at [email protected] it's very common that sponsorship is done through custom packages that we work on together! display advertising we sell display advertising through buysellads. head over there to check out the options. sponsored posts sponsored posts go everywhere and get a lot of engagement. you get: a post that goes right on the homepage like all other posts, and lives on the site forever (~8,000,000 pageviews/month) the post goes out to the rss feed (~150,000 readers) it gets tweeted by @real_css_tricks (~405,000 followers) it goes on the facebook page (~74,000 likes) because they are blog posts, the format is pretty wide open. they can be long and detailed tutorials, they can be medium-length feature announcements, or very short, sweet, and direct. they cost $2,750. you can write them, or we can do it for you. sponsoring the css-tricks newsletter one sponsor per week. $500. book here. other sites i'd encourage you to check out: advertising on codepen advertising on shoptalk show advertising policy we only do advertising for things that we personally approve of. things that we either have used, would use or would recommend. our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers