menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies advertise with thought catalog thought catalog aligns brands with sincere coming of age stories. download media kit contact us 30m monthly readers 60m social reach 74% age 18-34 80% female partners editorial products editorial an uplifting take on the young female experience. view live example social content our production team brings your brand story to life driving excellent organic sentiment. view live example interactive content experience immerse fans in an entirely custom environment. view live example media & distribution video, banner media, and programmatic opportunities in a premium environment. coming soon video products original video combine your trailer assets with thought catalog editorial on social. view live example trailer remix video combine your trailer assets with thought catalog editorial on social. view live example social video fun, entertaining video to extend your brand message on social media. view live example offline products book publishing transform your brand message into a work of art - ebook or in print. view live example events influencer-led creative workshops designed to empower and inspire attendees. view live example influencers imagery that captures the moment and engages the mind. view live example work with us we’re a community on a journey, exploring and finding ourselves, cataloging our stories along the way. 114,119 articles 21,693 writers 440 books download media kit contact us publisher chris lavergne is the publisher of thought catalog chris@thoughtcatalog.com advertising contact robbie burton for brand partnership inquires robbie@thoughtcatalog.com want to write for thought catalog? our submissions are powered by collective world collective.world permissions interested in syndicating or licensing our content? permissions@thoughtcatalog.com general for other inquiries hello@thoughtcatalog.com book retail for information about carrying our products in your store stockists@thoughtcatalog.com thought catalog a place for thoughtful millennial storytelling quote catalog a content discovery platform for websites, books, music, movies and tv god and man a photo and video agency. shop catalog a next-generation retail brand specializing in luxury and limited edition products thought catalog books the book publishing house within thought catalog collective world a creative network for writers, journalists and storytellers founded in 2010, the thought & expression company llc is the premier media conglomerate of the millennial generation. headquartered in williamsburg, brooklyn with satellite offices in los angeles, we use technology and storytelling to elevate the media and advertising industry.