search newsletter search food fitness beauty life products workout videos say hello to a new, healthyish generation… 95% of millennials would rather be healthy than wealthy. 92% of millennials say they practice healthier habits today than they did growing up. this exciting, but unprecedented change in mindset and behavior among millennials can be a challenge to navigate. healthyish generation helps top brands activate and engage healthy-minded millennials through innovative content-driven campaigns and unparalleled research-driven insights. and, it's all built on top of our active, obsessive community: 55% are between 21–44 years old 68% visit on mobile 68% female / 32% male 80% college educated* source: comscore media metrix march 2019; *comscore plan metrix february 2019 partnerships that scale & get noticed work with our in-house content strategists and storytellers (plus influencers and our network of experts) to create impactful, groundbreaking programming that resonates with this audience like no others can. the better way to beef up your meals in partnership with beef checkoff insights and research no one else can get we work closely with our partners to build engaging, creative ways to learn from our unique audience that deliver actionable insights and strategic recommendations. brand perception / lift studies innovative, new ways to test and improve brand messaging on millions of consumers. quantitative insights custom-created (and fun!) surveys with massive engagement to inform marketing objectives. custom video & bold advertising that works get original, shareable video campaigns created for millennials, by millennials. plus, big beautiful ads that perform and scale. 34 under 34: the rising stars in health in partnership with fitbit capabilities our clients advertise with us interested in advertising on greatist? connect with us! reach out to brett jesso (advertise@healthline.com). greatist is part of healthline media's portfolio of high quality health and wellness brands that engage over 76+ million unique visitors a month (comscore, march 2019). facebook twitter pinterest instagram flipboard linkedin about careers advertise with us contact archive terms privacy newsletter subscribe to our daily newsletter get the health & wellness stuff that matters. subscribe © 2020 greatist