skip to main content sections about axios sign up driving the news: the coronavirus pandemic arrow close sections politics & policy donald trump 2020 election policymaking immigration technology big tech misinformation data privacy surveillance automation and ai economy & business media stock market jobs transportation retail trade war health coronavirus health care costs opioids affordable care act medicare for all vaping public health world china north korea iran russia israel energy & environment climate change alternative energy oil companies electric vehicles science space extreme weather sports nfl, nba, mlb & nhl ncaa sports betting 2020 olympics axios gets you smarter, faster with news & information that matters.our mission statement arrow about about axios advertise with us careers events axios on hbo privacy and terms online tracking choices contact us subscribe axios newsletters axios app (beta) pro rata podcast close menu driving the news: the coronavirus pandemic arrow sections politics & policy donald trump 2020 election policymaking immigration technology big tech misinformation data privacy surveillance automation and ai economy & business media stock market jobs transportation retail trade war health coronavirus health care costs opioids affordable care act medicare for all vaping public health world china north korea iran russia israel energy & environment climate change alternative energy oil companies electric vehicles science space extreme weather sports nfl, nba, mlb & nhl ncaa sports betting 2020 olympics about about axios advertise with us careers events axios on hbo privacy and terms online tracking choices contact us subscribe axios newsletters axios app (beta) pro rata podcast 13 hours ago - health advisers steer trump to drop back-to-work deadline jonathan swan cnn’s kaitlan collins in the socially distanced white house briefing room. photo: jonathan ernst/reuters believing the worst is yet to come, some top advisers to president trump are struggling to steer him away from easter as an arbitrary deadline for much of the nation to reopen. state of play: the operating assumption among administration officials involved in the coronavirus planning is that the april 12 mark — 16 days away — will not, in fact, turn out to be the starting gun for businesses across america to reopen. but trump is far from chastened. "i don’t think he feels in any way that his messaging was off," a top official said. "he feels more convinced than ever that america needs to get back to work." one person close to trump expressed concern about market reaction the day after easter, if the president allows that to be set up too rigidly as open day. if the reality is worse than trump hopes — and large numbers of americans have to stay isolated — some close to trump think a false easter expectation could send markets downward. between the lines: the reality is that the administration is unlikely to go from red light to green light. more likely it’s a step-by-step process — a "tiered" approach, different guidelines based on geography and other factors, as trump has been foreshadowing. trump sought yesterday to provide himself more flexibility, given internal expectations that awful data will only mount. dr. anthony fauci said on cnn last night that easter was trump's "aspirational projection" to "give people some hope." but fauci said trump is "listening to us when we say we really got to reevaluate it, in real time, and any decision we make has to be based on the data." weaning trump from setting a date for millions of americans to get back to work is a delicate, ongoing process. final options haven't been presented to trump, as officials await more data. aides plan to continue finalizing recommendations right up to expected weekend meetings with the president. what's next: despite the blowback for imposing an unrealistic and artificial deadline on a virus that knows no deadline, trump remains impatient. on monday, he faces his first self-imposed deadline — the end of the white house's "15 days to slow the spread." some senior administration officials said they wish they could ignore it, because they need more time for societal isolation to catch up to the virus. but the white house’s decision to relentlessly brand that 15-day period means trump will have to address it somehow. behind the scenes: advisers have tried to encourage trump to offer hope without dates or deadlines — to get him away from offering dates and to find new ways to be optimistic without giving the public a false expectation that an end to the crisis is near. aides have discussed using other benchmarks to give the public a sense that the coronavirus shut-in won’t go on forever. they've talked about getting past the peak of transmissions, then gradually loosening restrictions as cases trend downward. trump has already signaled the direction he wants to go: he wants states to pursue their own policies, depending on their level of risk. he's encouraged by states like alabama and mississippi keeping many businesses open, and sticking to fairly basic measures like hand washing and social distancing. trump accepts that other states like new york will likely stay shut down. the bottom line: a senior white house official said the administration is having trouble offering anything approaching certainty. with states including louisiana and florida showing increasingly alarming signals, there’s a sense that a rolling disaster awaits. subscribe to mike allen's axios am to follow our coronavirus coverage each morning from your inbox. go deeper orion rummler trump appoints peter navarro to enforce defense production act president trump briefs reporters with the white house coronavirus task force on march 26. photo: drew angerer/getty images white house trade adviser peter navarro was appointed as the trump administration's point man to enforce the defense production act on friday, after president trump authorized the use of the dpa to direct general motors to build ventilators for patients affected by the novel coronavirus. why it matters: america's hospitals, doctors and nurses have urged trump since last week to use the dpa to ramp up the country's domestic production of medical supplies crucial for health care workers, saying "there will not be enough medical supplies" without it. go deeper arrowupdated 34 mins ago - health axios coronavirus dashboard illustration: sarah grillo/axios global: total confirmed cases as of 5 p.m. et: 590,594 — total deaths: 26,943 — total recoveries: 130,865. u.s.: leads the world in cases. total confirmed cases as of 6 p.m. et: 100,000 — total deaths: 1,478 — total recoveries: 862. federal government latest: president trump signed the $2 trillion coronavirus stimulus bill to provide businesses and u.s. workers some economic relief. state updates: nearly 92% of cities do not have adequate medical supplies — new york is trying to nearly triple its hospital capacity in less than a month. world updates: italy reported 969 coronavirus deaths on friday, the country's deadliest day. business latest: president trump authorized the use of the defense production act to direct general motors to prioritize building ventilators for those affected by covid-19. 🏰 1 disney thing: both disney world and disneyland theme parks in the u.s. are closed until further notice. what should i do? answers about the virus from axios experts — what to know about social distancing. other resources: cdc on how to avoid the virus, what to do if you get it. subscribe to mike allen's axios am to follow our coronavirus coverage each morning from your inbox. keep reading arrowupdated 49 mins ago - politics & policy marisa fernandez north carolina becomes latest state to issue coronavirus stay-at-home order data: axios reporting; map: danielle alberti/axios north carolina gov. roy cooper issued a statewide stay-at-home order on friday to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, with exemptions for certain essential workers and businesses. the order goes into effect monday at 5 p.m. the big picture: this is the latest state to announce policies to enforce social distancing. more than 1.5 billion people worldwide were asked to stay home monday. go deeper arrowupdated 2 hours ago - health axios gets you smarter, faster with news & information that matters.copyright axios media, 2020 about about axios advertise with us careers events axios on hbo privacy and terms online tracking choices contact us subscribe axios newsletters axios app (beta) pro rata podcast