content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip advisory services – training, consulting and education content marketing university content marketing university is cmi’s online marketing education and training program. it is built for our community members to work at your own pace, where and when is convenient for you. this virtual program is created to help you do your job better and more effectively so you can grow your career as a marketer. robert rose, cmi’s chief strategy advisor, has put together a comprehensive master class – a well-organized and systematic framework that helps you think strategically in order to work effectively. an effective content strategy is essential to staying ahead of the curve. your content marketing is not a formula – but it can be created with a solid foundation and framework that allows for the unknown and what will be discovered. our content marketing university curriculum is updated each march, with bonus lessons being added each quarter. whether you sign up in march or any other month, your license always includes one annual update. learn more today! content marketing institute consulting we want to advise you – enterprises – on how to understand, develop and execute smart content marketing strategies. we will help you and your team do this on your own, with the teams and technologies you already have (though maybe we’ll offer some suggestions on what else you need), with strategies on how to grow. our “teach a man to fish” approach will help you dedicate the time and resources to making this work, because we know you have the abilities. we focus on combining independent and pragmatic thinking across a wide array of marketing expertise. you’ll have the benefit of engaging cmi directly, giving you access to the collective knowledge of the leading minds in content marketing today – without the overhead of a huge consulting firm. aside from consulting and advisory services, we also offer educational content and custom research projects. learn more now or submit a consultation request. blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree