entrepreneur press® bookstore 0 × share this book choose a format paperback $19.99 ebook $19.99 qty: add to cart also available here amazon barnes & noble indiebound books-a-million google play 800-ceo-read seller's note improve your eq success as an entrepreneur takes a lot more than big ideas and dedication. with threats of burnout and rejection at nearly every turn, the entrepreneurial journey is riddled with obstacles—but the staff, experts, and voices of entrepreneur want you to know you're not alone. entrepreneur voices on emotional intelligence brings you real-world strategies to help you get brutally honest with yourself and boost your emotional intelligence. dive in and learn how to: assess and manage your own eq levels stop negative thoughts in their tracks to stay focused decipher nonverbal cues that are the key to your success shut down emotional manipulators before they suck the life out of you develop a positive relationship with failure cope with the grief, loneliness, and self-doubt that all entrepreneurs face propel your career with regular eq maintenance plus, gain tips and tricks to become more likable, win big in your negotiations, and leverage emotions when marketing your business. description terms privacy issues? × 0 entrepreneur press® bookstore free giveaway entrepreneur voices on emotional intelligence  aerio will email you instructions on how to download and read this ebook. by entering your email address, you also agree to receive marketing messages from the seller about books and related products. i agree to the terms of service yes no get my book enjoy your book! back terms privacy × 0 entrepreneur press® bookstore × select quantity how many would you like to buy? back update name total apply estimated shipping: $ subtotal: $ continue › have an account? sign in don't have an account? use guest checkout. have an account? sign in guest checkout continue as guest ‹ back shipping address shipping name 3-03 lyons ave fair lawn, nj 07410 shipping options billing address your cart items order total items $0 shipping $0 gift wrap $0 promos $0 tax $0 total $0 payments are authorized immediately and charged when the first item ships. charges will appear on your statement from "aerio retail network". payment information payment method visa ending in 4983 the seller may contact me about this or related products. ‹ back checkout secure checkout by aerio via stripe shipping address united states canada save as default shipping address shipping address same as billing a 15% fee is included in the shipping cost to cover border-crossing fees. by ordering goods from aerio, i hereby authorize a licensed canadian customs broker chosen by aerio to act as my agent, to transact business with canada border services agency (cbsa) to clear my merchandise and account for applicable duties and taxes. deliver to this address ‹ back billing address united states canada use this billing address ‹ back cards accepted payment method credit card processing handled securely by stripe use this card ‹ back finish creating your account! provide a password for quicker checkouts and access to order history, tracking, and ebooks. finalize account skip thank you! your order was successful. please check your email or spam folder for your order confirmation. ebook download instructions have been sent to the email address provided. you can also download your ebook immediately by clicking on your preferred reading device below. ebook download instructions are emailed when the ebook is published. tracking information is emailed when the order ships. email aeriosupport@ingramcontent.com for help. done for now? sign out privacy policy • terms • order policies