skip to content saving the world, one pixel at a time main menu about memenu toggle a tale of two leave a comment / gaming / by sandrian / march 22, 2020 march 22, 2020 it’s been a weird couple of weeks. i’ve been sent home as of friday the 13th to start to work remotely from home together with most of the people in my office. the netherlands isn’t officially on lockdown due to the corona virus just yet but we are slowly building up towards it. the government is urging everyone to stay inside as much as possible, to work from home and, if you have to go outside for whatever reason, to keep atleast 1.5m distance from others. which is easier said than done. this whole situation feels very surreal. shops are closing, vacations are cancelled, entire countries are on lockdown. on the other hand the company i work for is thriving because supermarkets and drugstores are considered vital chains and as such are relied upon to be open and stocked at all times. it seems like the worst of the people stocking up has happened and as such everyone seems to be able to do their groceries shopping as normal again. the shelves are full, the stores aren’t packed to the roof with people anymore. we’re all holding our breaths as to whether we are getting even stricter rules enforced on top of the ones we already have or if the dutch government remains a bit more lax. i guess it depends on how many people contract the virus this week. with this pandemic making it’s way across the globe a number of gaming companies have kind of jumped in and assisted their playerbase in different ways. square enix is giving away free (older) games. the makers of dungeons and dragons online and lord of the rings online are offering all their paid content in the form of expansions as free to play to all players for a limited time. there’s free games on the epic and steam stores. blizzard has chosen to implement a 30 day experience boost to all retail characters in world of warcraft. it’s this last action that i can personally enjoy the most. as mentioned before i’ve been leveling up a new warlock on retail on a server that houses some friends. on my last post i made it to northern stranglethorn but as you can see in the screenshot at the start of the post i am already questing in outland right now. yesterday i powerleveled my way through hellfire peninsula and ended at level 70 around midnight. i think the whole 60-70 leg took me maybe three hours total. it’s really insane. with all heirlooms stacked, the 30% experience boost from having war mode on, the 25% zone experience boost from hellfire peninsula and the 100% experience boost from the event just makes leveling a breeze right now. i may actually take advantage of this completely by rolling up more allied races so i can unlock their respective heritage armors. for now though i’m sticking to leveling this void elf warlock. i only have 50 levels to go and with the current speed of leveling i expect to be 120 in no time. hellfire peninsula was a bit of a ride on it’s own however. i think it’s one of the most contested zones to quest in with war mode on. there seemed to be a constant battle between various levels of horde and alliance going on. it wasn’t as bad as northern stranglethorn where max level horde characters would straight up camp one of the alliance hubs for hours on end but… i ended up avoiding a few players nonetheless. luckily hfp is a big zone with enough quests to do spread out across it so if there were a few horde people in one part of the zone i just moved to another part. right now i’m making my way to sholazar basin in northrend to hopefully get from level 70 to 80 today. the other game where i’ve been steadily making progress in has been animal crossing: new horizons. as mentioned in my previous post i managed to obtain the game a few days early and i’ve been playing it every day for atleast an hour since. i’ve not been hardcore grinding anything but spreading things out a bit. as such i’ve only unlocked the store today, after finally obtaining 30 clumps of iron, and i’m waiting for my museum to be finished tomorrow. i did finally use my first nook miles coupon and went to a suprise isle where i met pinky the panda, as shown above. i’ve asked her to move to my island but apparently i need to be able to build houses for that and i’m not near completion for that yet. so i don’t think i’ll see her appear for a few days atleast. i do like the surprise island trip mechanics. you get sent to a random island that may or may not have an inhabitant. there you are free to gather whatever you want up to the limit of what you can actually carry. unfortunately for me this particular island contained orange trees, which i have on my own island aswell, and not that many special flowers that i wanted to take back with me. on the other hand there were palm trees with coconuts so i shook all of those out of the trees so i can start planting them on my own island. right now i’m mostly in unlock mode. i want to get the shop built and my museum to open. then i want to be able to connect a second part of my island via a bridge, i need to pay off my mortgage for that, so i can build more houses. once that is under wraps i think i’m going to start thinking about terraforming/rearranging my island a bit. i have a ton of ideas but i need to figure out how everything works first. so for now i just make sure that i dig up all the fossils around the island, collect all the seashells and shake the trees every day. i’ve expanded my inventory (yay!) and i’m working on unlocking more hairstyles and colours aswell. i think if i wanted i could play this game all day and still find more stuff to do. so i rather set small goals and work on those so that i don’t burn out and get the most enjoyment and longevity out of the game. the only thing i really want to do still is visit the island of someone on my friends’ list. unfortunately i’ve not been able to do that yet but i’m going to try again tonight. all in all this forced sitting at home has kind of pushed me into playing games again. animal crossing released at a real opportune time and i’m finding it very relaxing to play. on the other side of the spectrum i’ve finally gotten motivated to pick up allied races in wow again and i’m enjoying myself while doing so. i hope i can add some final fantasy xiv into the mix aswell and from there it’s just waiting untill the next big release on my radar: the final fantasy vii remake. i’ve pre-ordered it digitally and can’t wait to start playing it when it comes out. i’m kind of bummed that square enix cut up the game into multiple pieces but i hope the story is going to be as epic as i’ve been told. i’ve never actually played final fantasy vii so i can’t wait to dive into it and make up for all the things that i apparently missed out on. i will have enough time to do so anyway since i don’t see the end to working remotely in sight yet. for now though it’s time to dive back into azeroth and tackle some sholazar basin quests. what are you playing this weekend? animal crossing is crack leave a comment / gaming / by sandrian / march 20, 2020 march 20, 2020 so with almost everyone getting their copy of animal crossing: new horizons today i can finally spill the beans about what i think about the game so far for myself. i managed to get my copy two days early due to the chain where i ordered it having to close shops. why close shops? well unless you’ve been living under a rock… this particular chain decided to close to protect their employees from the covid-19 virus. since they allowed everyone to pick up their physical copy from the store two days earlier they also decided to do the mailing two days earlier. as such i ended up with my copy on the 18th and i was pretty happy to once not get the short end of the stick. so far i’m really enjoying the game. it’s a bit like crack in that i’m instantly addicted and i keep wanting to do more and play more whenever i take a bit of a break because i need to do something else. it really plays like any other animal crossing game. you start out with a tent which you can then upgrade to a, progressively bigger, house. tom nook is there with timmy and tommy and they run the island shop. blathers is there aswell and i’m currently working on the museum stuff. i have two inhabitants, hammlet and lydia, and i’m running around collecting various materials and catching fish and bugs. oh and planting flowers. this game is one for the long haul. obviously i want to unlock everything as fast as i possibly can and be able to expand on my island and make it look pretty. the native trees on my island contain oranges but i’ve also planted a few cherry trees. the graphics look smooth and pretty while still keeping that familiar animal crossing vibe. i want to start posting screenshots from my island soon but since i don’t want to spoil things too much i’m just sticking to this short post for now. happy playing everyone! poking around azeroth: meet kassandri the warlock! leave a comment / gaming / by sandrian / february 27, 2020 february 27, 2020 for some reason i’ve been feeling the leveling itch in world of warcraft again. the current endgame content isn’t really appealing to me, i just can’t be arsed with the horrific visions and all that nonsense right now. so instead i rolled up a new baby warlock on a different server where a bunch of friends reside on and made her a void elf since i hadn’t unlocked the void elf heritage armor so hoping to hit two birds with one stone this way. so far the puttering around has been pleasant. i went straight to duskwood from stormwind and have been making my way through the zone while also spending time queueing up for random dungeons to keep things interesting. i ran scarlet monastery, which on retail is the lovechild of old graveyard and cathedral i guess, and everything went pretty smoothly. being fully decked out in heirlooms will do a lot for your damage and as such things just melted inbetween my slightly overpowered fel guard, summoned dreadstalkers and imps and me cackling with spitting out shadowbolts and hand of guldan left right and center. truly it’s an amazing time to be a demonology warlock and their army of minions. the dungeon alone gave me around three levels due to being rested, having two quests to hand in and just the completion of the dungeon in general. fun times. back in duskwood i unleashed the monstrosity stitches unto an unsuspecting darkshire. honestly it’s that i get a good chunk of experience from this quest and a nice piece of gear, otherwise i would let stitches have it’s way with the town. who doesn’t like sitting back and watching a sewed up undead monster wreak some havoc around unsuspecting townsfolk? i’m always a little intrigued how the creature seems to light the whole town on fire without actually carrying a torch. maybe the buildings just spontaneously combust when faced with danger? anyway, i quickly took care of that menace and then moved on to the west side of the zone that is centered around the raven hill hub. unfortunately i had to take a bit of a break inbetween due to some max level horde players deciding that terrorizing lowbie alliance levellers in duskwood is the best way to spend their thursday evening and as such i had to wait untill the flight master respawned to actually get out of there. oh well. i guess the time came in handy so i could make myself a nice cup of coffee. once in raven hill i set about doing various tasks for the hub. one led to an emotional reunion between jitters and sven yorgen, which ended in sven nearly choking jitters to death whilst blaming him for getting the family killed. ah reunions. so bittersweet! in the meantime killing morbent fel all those years back (pre-cataclyms) apparently had no effect so sven asks me to investigate what is up and how it’s possible that duskwood is still crawling with undead while the necromancer responsible for raising them should be dead and buried in a catacomb. oh apparently i’m also to kill some of the undead and get some bear brains while at it. righto! i find morbent fel in the catacombs under the raven hill cemetery where he is very much alive. death was obviously merely a setback. as i kill him again and hand in the quest i only really have one more questchain to go in duskwood that i picked up around the cemetery and which revolves around killing mor’ladim. a cursed elite mob that wanders around the raven hill cemetery area. i took a quick detour to darkshire, to pick up the quest to kill him, and then went hunting for the mob that usually wanders around the northeastern corner of the cemetery. after picking a bone with mor’ladim the skeleton and getting a fancy sword as reward for putting his spirit to rest i’m finally done with all the quests in duskwood. i aided darkshire and their worgen problem. i got rid of undead and even attacked a few ogres to get back stuff they stole. i set loose a terror and killed a lich aswell as helping the fine folks of raven hill. not bad for two hours work eh? next destination? northern stranglethorn! the gaming fire is kind of out 2 comments / uncategorized / by sandrian / february 23, 2020 february 23, 2020 i think the title is kind of self explanatory and i’m not sure how big of a post this will be but the gaming fire seems to be a bit out the past two weeks. i’ve been extremely busy with other things. work. meeting up with friends. going to the movies. going to the gym. going to the pool. i’ve barely had time to sit down and game, apart from maybe an hour of wow last weekend and a stray dungeon in ffxiv. i’ve played about an hour of pokémon sword today, trading pokémon with my friend and catching a few more to fill up my pokédex. i’m nowhere near the goal i set myself but i’ve obtained around 15 new pokémon today nonetheless. i’ve been reserving some time to write in a journal every day, aswell as be more thorough with my bedtime routine. making sure my kitchen and counter is clean before i head into the bathroom. applying all the lotions, properly cleaning my teeth (with floss and picks) and just making sure i take care of myself and my appearance better. i take a bit of time to read that days blogs in bed right before i go to sleep. so yeah. gaming is coming up at absolute last place right now and i’m okay with that. it’s also the reason my blog has been quite inactive. i just really don’t have anything to write about. things may change in the coming weeks, i never know when what mood strikes me, but for now i’m in one of my “i can’t be arsed to game” moods and it feels like it will last for a little while longer. sandy’s sunday: what a long strange week it’s been leave a comment / gaming / by sandrian / february 9, 2020 february 9, 2020 as predicted in my look ahead post from last week the training week at work absorbed a lot of my time this week. we had a program every day, although some days the program was only 2-3 hours and some days it was all day. it sure didn’t help in feeling less tired since i managed to get home exhausted everyday with the lowest point on wednesday where i literally fell asleep after dinner. i guess i needed it. in spite of all of this i managed to finish off the main “story” in cat quest on monday evening. now i just need to tackle all the remaining dungeons and the few side quests that still remain in the game. and get to level 99 of course. i really enjoyed this game for what it was. an rpg-light with lots of fun jabs at other games and so many amazing cat puns. now that i finished the main story i unlocked new game+ and “mew” game, which is a game type where you can set certain parameters like not being able to wear armor or not being able to level up and play the entire game at level one. even though this sounds very interesting, and i’m sure many people are thrilled about this type of stuff even if it is just for the exclusive rewards that come with it, i don’t think i’ll go back and play those game modes. i tend to be one and done once i finish a game and i may go for 100% completion if the mood strikes me within a single game mode but i just don’t like replaying the exact same game but on a higher difficulty setting. i guess this is why i don’t care for trophies that require me to play through a game multiple times on my ps4. so yeah. cat quest was fun and adorable and a game i can scratch, pun intended, off my backlog. playing through cat quest on my switch has also kind of reinforced the belief that it has become my preferred console for single player games. being able to play on my big tv but also take it on the road with me has helped so much in completing games that i otherwise wouldn’t have. even though i also use my ps4 a lot i notice that i’m just having much more issues finishing games on there compared to on my switch. i guess we’ll see this year how many games i actually finish on what console. for now i need to look for another game to sink my teeth in and i’m still deciding what it will be. next to cat quest i’ve also been spending some time playing world of warcraft this week. i did the timewalking dungeon event before the reset on wednesday and got a nice trinket upgrade on my warrior. i also did a +2 mythic to open up a chest and i managed to unlock and get through a big chunk of 8.3 quest chain this morning. as such i have the legendary cloak unlocked and can start working on upgrading it so that i can tackle more challenging content in the horrific visions. i realize that my warrior is kind of shitty geared still so i will need to work on that if i want to make a serious push in that content. all in all i’m happy that things will go back to “normal” the coming week, even though i have my annual review tomorrow and i’m preparing for it to be not as stellar as previous years. oh well. gaming goals february 2020: thinking long and hard leave a comment / gaming / by sandrian / february 2, 2020 february 2, 2020 two posts in one day?! why yes. i guess it’s an exception. mostly because i wanted to get this goal post out before i forget to publish it and we’re already a week into february… you catch my drift. this month i’m actually dialing back a bit on the goals. i have an exhausting training week coming up at work next week and a bunch of weekends that are filled up with visiting friends and family and as such i really need to squeeze in gametime when and where i can. i think my main focus for february will be catching up in world of warcraft on my warrior and finishing off leveling the final two dps classes in final fantasy xiv. next to that i’m still pretty much hooked on cat quest and with the re:mind dlc i’ve also kind of been drawn back into kingdom hearts 3 so i want to spend some of my time in that game again aswell. for now my goals for february look like this. single player games: finish cat quest fill the pokédex to 300 pokémon in pokémon sword go back to kingdom hearts 3 for trophies and grinding for the super bosses in the dlc world of warcraft: catch up my warrior to 8.3 content start working on the legendary cloak on my warrior catch up to current raid content on my warrior final fantasy xiv get my bard to level 80 casually work on trusts? i’ll need to see how this pans out get my machinist to level 80 so yeah. i’m keeping it light. i think i will have finished cat quest by the end of the week. i think i’ll need some guides if i want to finish it 100%. with that i mean having defeated all dungeons, done all sidequests and leveled up to 99. i’m currently level 47 so almost halfway there! after that the plan is to dive back into kingdom hearts 3 to grind away on some trophies that i’ve not yet obtained and level up sora so i can start doing all the super bosses that have been added in the dlc. finally i want to go back to pokémon and fill up my pokédex to 300! in mmo’s i’m mostly going to focus on playing catch up on my warrior. i want to get decently geared and start working on my legendary cloak. there is a timewalking event up right now which is providing me with some catch up gear right now and otherwise it’s just grinding out world quests. i’m pretty sure i need to work my way through the nazjatar questline before i can get to the 8.3 content so i’ll see how fast that goes. in ffxiv i just want to get done with bard and machinist. then i can get rid of all the “low level” aiming gear that is still cluttered in my bags and i will only have the three tank classes left. i’m still not sure if i want to push through with trusts. i’m not really enjoying the grind but then again doing one trust dungeon max on a given day isn’t actually that horrible. i need to see how that pans out. all in all these should be smalls attainable goals. anything extra is a plus here, i never know when the gaming mood takes me and has me finish up way more than i thought i would. what are your plans for february? january 2020: a look back 3 comments / gaming / by sandrian / february 2, 2020 february 2, 2020 is it february already? where did the time go? it feels like january only lasted two weeks this year. maybe it’s because i’ve been extremely busy at work and dealing with emotional turmoil due to my friends’ illness. maybe it’s because i’ve taken up working out again, making some of my evenings and weekend mornings fly by aswell. all in all it’s been a chaotic month for me and on the work and personal front it seems like that’s not going to end anytime soon. but i don’t want to look at my personal stuff in this post, but instead look back at the goals in gaming land i set for myself and see how i fared… in ffxiv: get more battle classes to level 80. i have 6 to go, with ninja currently being 77. i hope to get ninja and atleast two others to 80 by the end of the month. work on getting my first crafting classes to 80. with ishguard restoration this shouldn’t actually be too hard. my carpenter is 77 as we speak so that should be able to get to 80 fast. ideally i want 3 crafting classes to 80 by the end of the month. let’s say carpenter, weaver and leatherworker? level up fishing. i’m currently sitting on level 64 and i want to get atleast to level 70 this month. level up blue mage. i want to hit atleast level 20 by the end of the month. complete all the side quests that are still up in the first work towards rank 3 fates in ahm araeng and the tempest. preferably i’ll have both done by the end of the month wow. i really thought at the start of the month that i would be able to do this. however because of work and other stuff i’ve actually barely logged on to ffxiv the past month. i’ve been slowly chunking away at leveling my bard, she’s level 75 right now, with trusts. and i have to say that leveling trusts is boring and grindy and probably the reason why i’ve been logging less than i wanted to. i did the new year’s event, heavensturn, and will probably do the valentione event somewhere this week but man. maybe i should just drop this whole leveling trusts thing for now and just focus on doing stuff i enjoy while leveling up instead. i did get ninja to 80 at the start of the month so there’s that. i really need to think long and hard about what i want from ffxiv in february. in other mmo’s: make progress in lotro. i’m level 3 and at the absolute beginning of the game. i have no idea about the layout of this game yet and how zones and other stuff works so i just want to head out and explore and see where that ship strands. finish off the current zone i’m in on my character in guild wars 2. so i discovered this month that i just really don’t have the time or patience to start from scratch in a new mmo. just having to relearn everything from the bottom up is not something i’ve enjoyed. so my little experiment with lotro will end here. maybe when life isn’t as chaotic and i’ve found my perfect gaming rotation schedule i will put this back on the menu. for now though both lotro and gw2 will be put back into the closet. i may break out gw2 on occassion to atleast unlock the episodes of the living story but that’s it. on the other hand i started playing wow again. i want to see the new 8.3 content and start working on the legendary cloak. instead of picking up where i left off on my rogue though i’ve decided to take my warrior to 120 instead and play her. i missed the warrior too much in the end and i want to do the legendary stuff on her for now. i managed to get to level 120 a week ago, with the final level solely on doing archaeology digsites, and now i’ll have to focus on gearing up so i can start the 8.3 content. i’m still very casual and basically only play on the weekends for now but atleast i’m enjoying myself! in single player games: finish the pokémon post-game questline get 200 pokémon registered in my pokédex (atleast!) pick spider-man back up for my ps4 and play through/finish the game i actually rocketed through pokémon and got both the goals ticked off pretty fast. i actually had a blast doing it aswell! i’ve been keeping up with the max raid events that they have been releasing. i’m also hoarding up pokémon that evolve through trading so i can trade my friend when he comes over and fill up my pokédex even more. i’m definitely putting this game back on the menu for my february goals because i want to keep working on my pokédex. now if only i could finally catch a ditto… spider-man has been a bust. i’ve barely played on my ps4 to begin with this month and all the time i did play on it either went to ffxiv or, last week, to playing the kingdom hearts 3 re:mind dlc. instead though i’ve started playing through cat quest on my switch and having a ton of fun doing that instead. it’s a short game and if i play like i’ve been doing i’ll probably finish it somewhere this week. because it’s such a short game i think i’m actually willing to try for 100% completion. even though the switch version has no trophies like the ps4 version i will have to use a guide for it, but that’s fine. all in all i got a few things done, which i’m happy with, but less than i had planned. i dropped one mmo in favour of another and i once again realised that my moods are heavily influenced by what goes on at work and in real life. it is how it is, better luck next month? sandy’s sunday: sore all over leave a comment / gaming / by sandrian / january 26, 2020 january 26, 2020 as i’m sipping on a cup of coffee (okay okay, it’s a latte) i feel slightly guilty for not going to the swimming pool today. honestly though i could barely get myself out of bed this morning. i’m hurting all over, especially my legs, and the idea of taking my bike up to the pool and then having to exhaust myself even further was the one thing i didn’t feel like doing today. so instead i’ve decided to take the day “off” so that my body can properly recover from all the workout stress i’m putting on it and then instead go to the pool tomorrow night and still get that swimming half hour in. because of this decision i had my morning opened up to do some other things. the first task on my list was log into guild wars 2 so i could unlock the proper episode of the icebrood saga for my account before it moves on to the next one somewhere this week. my account is littered with randomly unlocked living world episodes, kind of depending on when i logged in. since i still want to sort of make some progress in guild wars 2 i figured it would be a good idea to atleast log in on time to unlock all the living world episodes, so that’s what i’m intending to do. i also teleported my ranger to divinity’s reach for the lunar new year event and will check that out somewhere later today to see what it’s all about. so far the only thing i’ve noticed it’s that it’s doing horrible things to my graphics, probably something to do with the constant shooting of fireworks and the crowd of people amassing on suc a small spot in the town. oh well. i also took the time to push my warrior closer to level 120. when i logged off yesterday evening i was sitting on about 40% into level 118. i started up the quests in drustvar, after completing everything in tiragarde sound, and queued up for tol dagor since i had a quest for that aswell. i have to say that queueing up as dps isn’t as painful these days as it used to be around launch. i think i waited a max of ten minutes for this dungeon to pop this morning? the same held true for freeport which i ran yesterday, i almost got an instant queue to pop there which really surprised me. i did both dungeons without too much effort and could hand in both quests that helped level up my azerite necklace aswell as give a big chunk of experience. because of that, and the horde assault that took place this morning in drustvar, i actually dinged level 119 pretty fast. so that’s where i’m at right now. i’m not sure yet if i want to push to 120 today since i have to do a lot of chores still and having a clean house and stuffed fridge take precedent over leveling an avatar up in a game. what i am going to do though is play a bit of ffxiv to get my bard through the daily trust dungeon and pixie stuff aswell as download the dlc to kingdom hearts iii so i can start playing that. i remember how happy i was when i finished kh3 but also that the ending was rather unsatisfying. i hope this dlc can give me a bit more closure on that front. i will most likely do a post about it once i’ve played through it. for now though it’s time to get dressed and get to cleaning! slow leveling 4 comments / gaming / by sandrian / january 25, 2020 january 25, 2020 after hitting the gym for the third time in eight days i came home quite exhausted this morning. it’s a good type of exhausted though and a phase that i need to push myself through as i start getting my health and stamina back on track properly. i may have set a bit of a harsh schedule for myself with trying to workout four times a week but i know that if i limit myself to once or twice a week it’s so much easier to just start skipping days than when i do it like this. so far the hardest thing has been getting up and actually getting myself to the gym or the pool. once i’m there it’s fine and i’m happy to push myself as hard as i can before returning home sore and exhausted. because i went in the morning this time i have all the rest of the day to do other stuff, so i went out and did groceries for the weekend, folded the immense pile of laundry that had been collecting over the week and vacuumed my bedroom and hallway. i still have to do some more vacuuming and i’m about to start working on the dishes once i finish writing this post but i feel like i’ve actually had quite a productive saturday so far. the other thing i wanted to talk about in this post is my return to the world of warcraft. i spent about an hour and a half playing my warrior just now, slowly working my way through all the quests in tiragarde sound. even though i don’t really read the quest text anymore, seeing as i’ve done this zone on my rogue at the start of the expansion, it’s nice to retrace some of the old quest steps again. i’ve adventured with flynn to freehold and beyond to stop the assault on katherine proudmoore. i’ve been fighting the corruption in anglepoint wharf and i’ve been doing horseback riding in norwington estate. it’s quite a nice zone all things considered and being able to fly everywhere has been a major boon. i’m about halfway to level 117 as of writing this and i’m not sure what level i’ll be once i finish up all the quests in the zone. what i do know is that i’m taking it easy and just enjoying the ride. i really want to get back into the groove on my warrior and start working on the legendary cloak that has been introduced in the latest patch. i’m not sure how fast i can start tackling the new content once i hit 120 but i hope it’s fairly quick. i mean there were catch up mechanics present for nazjatar so i hope there will be now aswell. for now i’ve parked my rogue, and my other characters, and will solely focus on the warrior for the time being. another thing i’m slowly leveling is my bard in final fantasy xiv. choosing to level it up with trusts has kind of slowed down progress a lot when it comes to my goals in that game. it’s a concious sacrifice though. i’m kind of scared that if i ignore trusts and just powerlevel everything to level 80 i will never go back to level them up. so i figured i might aswell combine it with leveling up the last few battle classes i still have left. right now i’m trying to do one trust dungeon a day and pixie dailies and nothing else. it’s really easy to outlevel your trusts if you do anything besides those dungeons and i’m probably going to hit level 80 way before any of them do. i’m not sure yet what i’ll do in that case. i may just park that particular group of trusts and use my machinist to finish off the final few levels as i’m leveling that up or i could just bite the bullet and keep leveling up my trusts with a class that is level 80. i guess i’ll see when i get there. for now it’s just slow going and that’s fine by me. with me reserving two evenings a week for working out and effectively my weekend mornings aswell i am even more limited in the time i can spend on playing games. it doesn’t help that the league of legends na and eu championships have started up again aswell, meaning that i’ll be watching that whenever i have the time. i guess it becomes more important now than ever to have a bit of structure to my days and weeks instead of just seeing where stuff goes whenever. so i’m trying to figure out what i want to do in my games, how much time said activities take and then when the best time to play them is. for ffxiv it’s easy since i just do my three pixie dailies and a trust dungeon so i’m done in about 30 minutes. for wow it’s a bit trickier. i want to level my warrior and that can take whatever time it takes. so i’ll plan an hour or two to just play wow and see where that takes me. anyway this is starting to turn into a ramble a bit, so gonna stop right here. what are you up to this weekend? ready, set, go! leave a comment / gaming, personal / by sandrian / january 24, 2020 january 24, 2020 there’s currently so much stuff going on in my (gaming) life that i finally found the need to blog again, even if it’s just to write everything down so that it’s out of my head. first off a small update about my friend. at this point we are still mostly in the dark. she’s scheduled for an mri scan as soon as possible so they can determine the size of the tumor and whether or not it has spread. at this point in time everyone is hoping for the best but bracing themselves for the worst outcome. it’s been hard, especially because there’s nothing i can say to her that she hasn’t heard dozens of times already in the last few days. i guess this is where i thank dutch healthcare and our healthcare insurance system since whatever happens it won’t ruin her financially on top of everything else. i’ll periodically post small updates like these since i mostly just need to get it out of my head before it drives me insane. now on to happier stuff. as i write this post i’m feeling absolutely exhausted but in a good way. i’ve been feeling sore all over from my workout session from yesterday and i’m enjoying having an evening off. it’s been a bit of a brutal week for someone who has kind of gotten used to just sitting down at night and not doing anything else. so far i’ve been to the gym twice (saturday afternoon and yesterday evening) and i went swimming once on wednesday. the swimming was actually more brutal than the gym and it showed me that i’m really extremely out of shape. for now the plan is to go swimming twice a week, wednesdays and sundays, and go to the gym twice a week on thursdays and saturdays. the weekdays are going to be a bit more of a challenge to keep doing i think since i’ll have to motivate myself to drag my ass off the couch after long days of work. on the other hand it combats me going a bit insane just sitting at home every night and doing nothing but watching netflix or disney+ and playing games. so yeah, i’m starting to put down a routine and i’m very much motivated to see the routine through in the coming weeks/months. atleast untill i’m off to japan at the end of march. speaking of japan.. that’s slowly edging it’s way into my thoughts aswell. i’m in the phase where i want to start researching what i want to see in tokyo and kyoto since those are the two cities where we will spending the most time. i know i want to atleast visit the pokémon café in tokyo so i will make a reservation for that somewhere in the coming weeks. akihabara is high on my list aswell but otherwise i have no idea where i want to go or what i want to do. i’m really interested in maybe visiting some retro game shops aswell as some gacha establishments but i’ll have to see. i stil have around two months to do some planning so that should be more than enough time. in gaming land i’ve come to realize that trying out new mmo’s isn’t my thing. i just can’t get over outdated graphics, especially since final fantasy xiv has spoiled me with the pretty. i also just can’t invest the time to learn an mmo from scratch anymore so i’m going to retire lord of the rings online. instead i’ve resubbed to world of warcraft, mostly because i crave comfort gaming right now and wow has always pretty much been there to fill that need. i’m still deciding on what i want to do with my wow time right now. i’m either going to explore the new content on my rogue or level up my warrior to 120 and get a refresh on the war campaign story before heading off to work on all the new stuff. i have enough time to do both, it’s just a bit hard to have to choose. in my ffxiv adventures i’ve been doing trust dungeons here and there and my current group of trusts is about halfway there. i think i need to run dohn mheg two more times before i can move on to the next dungeon. this is mostly caused by alisae and alphinaud being behind on experience compared to thancred or i would’ve only needed to do the dungeon one more time. oh well. due to me leveling via this trust route i’ve kind of given up getting two more classes to level 80 for this month, instead i want to bring my bard to level 80 together with my first group of trusts. in sidequest land i’ve made some amazing progress and i can officially say that i’ve wiped the map clean of quest markers in all zones now! i think i’m going to spend some time on gathering and crafting this weekend because it’s really relaxing and i’m sure i can get a few classes to 80 if i just sit down for a bit and actually gather and craft. so yeah, that’s kind of what i’ve been up to this week so far. my mind is still all over the place but i’m trying to keep a positive outlook for my friend while my own life simply goes on. it’s weird but that’s how it is. posts navigation 1 2 … 45 next page → search for: archives archives select month march 2020 (2) february 2020 (5) january 2020 (7) december 2019 (7) november 2019 (5) october 2019 (6) september 2019 (10) august 2019 (22) july 2019 (10) june 2019 (10) may 2019 (5) april 2019 (1) march 2019 (10) february 2019 (4) january 2019 (9) december 2018 (4) november 2018 (7) october 2018 (4) september 2018 (7) august 2018 (25) july 2018 (6) june 2018 (1) may 2018 (2) april 2018 (1) march 2018 (3) february 2018 (3) january 2018 (9) december 2017 (7) november 2017 (3) september 2017 (5) august 2017 (3) july 2017 (8) june 2017 (2) may 2017 (5) april 2017 (3) march 2017 (3) february 2017 (2) january 2017 (7) november 2016 (1) october 2016 (1) september 2016 (1) august 2016 (14) july 2016 (8) june 2016 (7) may 2016 (17) april 2016 (6) march 2016 (8) february 2016 (8) january 2016 (12) december 2015 (3) november 2015 (7) october 2015 (9) september 2015 (8) august 2015 (24) july 2015 (7) june 2015 (4) may 2015 (1) march 2015 (4) february 2015 (7) january 2015 (2) november 2014 (2) october 2014 (4) september 2014 (3) august 2014 (4) july 2014 (1) june 2014 (6) may 2014 (2) march 2014 (1) january 2014 (4) december 2013 (1) november 2013 (4) october 2013 (7) september 2013 (4) august 2013 (6) july 2013 (5) categories beauty blaugust books dutch day english gaming personal series sports uncategorized work copyright © 2020 aeternus gaming | powered by astra wordpress theme