skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more affiliate marketing spi’s epic guide to affiliate marketing learn how to increase your income by recommending products and services that matter to your audience. share: here's an affiliate marketing secret: if you can become the connector between the audience you're building and the products and services they need to succeed, you can supplement your income, and potentially even make a full-time income from your recommendations. you just need to ask yourself, “how can i be serving my audience?” here's the real reason why this works: people want curation. when there is a choice, people need help organizing and understanding all of the options. they want someone with a voice and experience to filter the noise and find the best products for them, ultimately saving them time and getting them results, faster. that person, that curator can be you, and everyone can win. what is affiliate marketing, really? affiliate marketing is the process of earning a commission by promoting another company's product (or service). you find a product, promote it to others, and earn a piece of the profit for each sale that you make. in other words, when you help another company generate sales, you get a cut! the best part is that you don’t have to spend the time and money to create your own products, because someone else has already done the hard work. you can begin making money as an affiliate as soon as you have a place to recommend products, whether that's a website you have, a podcast, or even on social media. so, all you have to do is send traffic through a link to that product, and everything after that is out of your hands . . . right? wrong. there's so much more involved to make this work well, which is why most people who attempt affiliate marketing fail, or just see a few dollars coming in from their efforts. i want you to see amazing, life-changing results from affiliate marketing, which is why i'm thankful you're here. let me take a moment to share with you what's possible when you get this right. free webinar affiliate marketing masterclass in this 90-minute recorded, on-demand webinar, you’ll learn how to find products and make the most of your affiliate campaigns. sign up for the free webinar generate additional income using authentic strategies affiliate marketing is an integral part of pat's business and allows him to serve his audience by connecting them to the tools and services they need to succeed. with this webinar, he wants to help you do the same. pat knows affiliate marketing what's preventing you from making affiliate marketing a part of your income stream? seven common anxieties about affiliate marketing three mistakes people make with affiliate marketing how to stay on amazon (and the ftc's) good side this stuff works. here's what it can do for you. affiliate marketing is something i’ve been involved in ever since 2009 on my very first website, greenexamacademy.com. on that site, an architecture-related website, i promoted an exam software product that has generated more than $200,000 in commissions over the years. since then, i’ve branched out and diversified my affiliate income sources. but much more than that—i’ve made affiliate marketing a cornerstone of my business strategy and my biggest single source of revenue. since 2009, i've generated over $3 million in commissions with affiliate marketing. in fact, my largest affiliate partnership, with a company called convertkit, has driven more than $400,000 in revenue alone. affiliate marketing is a fantastic (and underused) method for generating passive income. you don't have to worry about creating your own product, customer service is mostly out of your hands, and you can get started as soon as today if you wanted to. what's even cooler than the commissions is that as a result of my recommendations, i'm getting thanked by my audience, too. getting paid and getting thanked at the same time? yes! that's the best kind of marketing, and one every single person should be involved with. in this 8-part series, i'll teach you how to get started and find the right products for your audience, even if you're just starting out. instead of worrying about upsetting and annoying your audience with your promotions, i'll show you how to gracefully promote products in a way that people will thank you for the time and effort you put in to help them make a buying decision. i'll also teach you about the amazing opportunities you can have related to the companies you help promote for, and the special kinds of deals and offers you can get for yourself, and your audience, through those relationships. we have a lot to cover, but i also want to be real with you, too… i know you're probably excited, and my history with affiliate marketing all sounds great, but it hasn’t been smooth sailing the whole time. in the beginning, i didn't always get it right. i chose the wrong products to promote, and put money over serving my audience at times, and every single time i’ve put money before serving my audience, i’ve failed. i don't want you to fail. i want you to thrive! affiliate marketing has had a bad rap over the years because many affiliate marketers fell into the same traps i did. that’s why i’ve made it a big part of my mission to change the perception of affiliate marketing, and to show you how you can do it right, and make good money, too. making that happen is exactly what this series of epic articles is going to show you how to do. together, we’ll learn how you can serve your audience, cultivate raving fans, and make some money, too. remember – everybody can win. over the next 8 info-packed chapters, i’m going to share with you: the truth about what affiliate marketing is and how it works how to get started with affiliate marketing, even if you have no idea how to begin the one-word key to success with affiliate marketing (and all online business endeavors) a behind-the-scenes look at one of my high-level affiliate marketing partnerships (i’m talking 5 figures a month!) the biggest mistakes you need to know—and avoid—if you want to make it big as an affiliate marketer my favorite affiliate marketing tools and tips that will be game changers for you how to succeed on one of the world’s most popular affiliate marketing networks i know how powerful affiliate marketing can be when it’s done the right way, and i know what a difference it can make for you and your audience when you’re promoting products and services that can really help them out. that’s why i’m rooting for you to succeed, and it’s why i put together this epic guide to affiliate marketing. it’s the guide i wish i’d had when i started my affiliate marketing journey way back in 2009. excited? here’s what’s in store: chapter 1 how affiliate marketing works read more chapter 2 how to start affiliate marketing read more chapter 3 affiliate marketing tips read more chapter 4 affiliate marketing case study: convertkit read more chapter 5 avoiding affiliate marketing mistakes read more chapter 6 12 tools to take your affiliate marketing to the next level read more chapter 7 affiliate marketing on amazon read more chapter 8 taking your affiliate marketing to the next level read more ready to go? on to chapter 1 want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less