institutions log in sign up affiliate program join our affiliate program transform lives by sharing the world's best learning experience join for free earn up to 45% commission on 4,000+ courses and specializations how does coursera's affiliate program work? join coursera’s affiliate program on the linkshare network – joining is fast, easy, and free choose from 4,000+ courses and specializations to promote, using either coursera’s custom banners and text links or your own unique format track the traffic you’re sending to coursera with easy-to-integrate linkshare tracking links earn up to *45% commission on eligible purchases that your users make on coursera what are the benefits of joining the affiliate program? as a coursera affiliate, you’ll receive: baseline commissions between 20% – 45% on any eligible purchases your users make within 30 days of clicking a qualified link, with bonuses for strong performance clean, professionally-designed coursera banners and text links to add to your site our monthly affiliate newsletter, including curated content recommendations and fresh advertising creative access to our product merchandiser field, updated daily faqs which products can i receive commissions? currently, our baseline offer allows commissions for valid purchases of courses, specializations, and professional certificates. you can learn more about each of these products here. can i earn commissions from eligible purchases of an individual who is already a registered coursera user? yes can i earn commissions multiple times from a single user? yes, if the user purchases multiple courses while using your affiliate links. if a user enrolls in a monthly subscription of a specialization from coursera, does it result in a recurring payout of commission every month? no, we only commission the first month’s transaction. if a user clicks on a course link for a course and ends up purchasing a different course, does that result in a commission payout? yes *commission on eligible purchases made via clicking on a qualified link within 30 days of the initial click-through. *if multiple affiliates refer a sale, credit will be given to the publisher with the last qualified click before the purchase. *degrees and certificate purchases excluded. coursera provides universal access to the world’s best education, partnering with top universities and organizations to offer courses online. © 2020 coursera inc. all rights reserved. coursera about leadership careers catalog professional certificates mastertrack™ certificates degrees for enterprise for government community learners partners developers beta testers translators tech blog connect blog facebook linkedin twitter instagram more terms privacy help accessibility press contact directory affiliates