close mobile menu search this website home start here about resources podcast blog health beauty mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel reviews recipes beef recipes breakfast recipes condiment recipes dessert recipes drink recipes pork recipes poultry recipes salad recipes seafood recipes side dish recipes snack recipes soup & stew recipes newsletter shop menu skip to right header navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer simple answers for healthier families about start here resources podcast blog beauty health mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel recipes reviews shop search you are here: home » affiliate disclosure affiliate disclosure please see also the terms of service, privacy policy and full disclaimer which govern the use of this website. this affiliate disclosure details affiliate relationships that wellnessmama.com has with other companies and products. affiliate disclosure in compliance with the ftc guidelines, please assume the following about all links, posts, photos and other material on this website: any/all of the links on this website are affiliate links of which wellness mama® receives a small commission from sales of certain items, but the price is the same for you. katie wells/wellnessmama.com is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com or endless.com, myhabit.com, smallparts.com, or amazonwireless.com. pages on this site may include affiliate links to amazon and its affiliate sites on which the owner of this website will make a referral commission. what is an affiliate link? many (but not all) of the links on wellnessmama.com are affiliate links. this means that a special tracking code is used and that i may make a small commission on the sale of an item if you purchase through one of these links. the price of the item is the same for you whether it is an affiliate link or not, and using affiliate links helps me to maintain this website and support my family. in some cases, i may also use a link and provide a discount code for an item. in these cases, i may still earn an affiliate commission and the price may actually be less for you by using this link or tracking code. for instance, if you click on a link on this website for an instant pot, vegetable peeler, shiatsu massage pillow, peanut ball, or any other item that i link to from amazon, i will receive a small commission (the average is around $1.00 to $1.42 per item). links to other companies like radiant life catalog, or activation products are also affiliate company links. again, for simplicity, assume that any link on wellnessmama.com is an affiliate link and that i may/will make a commission if you purchase through these links (though the price remains the same for you). if you are going to purchase a product and would like to help support the wellness mama® mission (which i would be very grateful for!), links to many of the products i recommend can be found on the resources page. when do i use affiliate links? if i post an affiliate link to a product, it is something that i personally use, support and would recommend without an affiliate link. unless noted otherwise, any product i link to is one i have purchased myself and use for myself or my family. i do not accept free products for review and also disclose if i am affiliated with a company in any other way that benefits me financially. (please read my full disclaimer for information on non-affiliate relationships that i may benefit from financially.) i know that many bloggers accept free products for review or write sponsored posts and while i personally don’t find anything wrong with this (as long as the nature of the relationship is disclosed properly), it is my personal policy to purchase products and use them myself before promoting to or linking to them. in many cases, i am offered free products for review and refuse them. my first priority is always providing resources to help you create positive changes in your life, and i will only ever link to products or resources (affiliate or otherwise) that fit within this purpose. nature of affiliate relationships please note that while i personally purchase, review and use every product i link to, these products are purchased from third party companies and i do not control these companies or have a financial interest other than an affiliate relationship unless otherwise disclosed (although if jeff bezos ever wants a break from running the world… i mean amazon… i might apply for that job!). for this reason, i cannot ensure that any item purchased through a link on wellnessmama.com is shipped on time, packaged properly, or that you will like it. any problems or concerns with a specific product purchased through a link on this website should be directed to the company the item was purchased from. copyright and rights reserved all of the information on this website, including images, text, audio, video, and other forms of content (including the information in this affiliate disclosure) is copyright © wellnessmama.com 2006-2018 and may not be downloaded, reproduced, republished or otherwise copied without express written permission of the author and of wellnessmama.com. the website and all of its content and the selection and arrangement thereof, is protected as a compilation owned by wellness mama® and wellnessmama.com under the copyright laws of the united states and other countries. wellness mama® may change the website or delete any content, features, or services at any time, in any way, for any or no reason. wellness mama® reserves all rights not expressly granted in and to the website and the content. footer sitemap start here comment policy affiliate disclosure newsletter privacy policy terms of service full disclaimer promo guidelines contact site footer the information on this website has not been evaluated by the fda and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease. by accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the terms of service, full disclaimer, privacy policy, affiliate disclosure, and comment policy. content may not be reproduced in any form. ads provided by cafemedia family & parenting network. displayed ads do not constitute endorsement or recommendation by wellness mama. copyright © 2006–2020 wellness mama® · all rights reserved · sitemap