empowering, inspiring, award-winning & my grandma says you’ll love it…. signup! close home ec services ask the green mama ratings/reviews press contributing authors affiliates be local. shop local. live local events green mama products tags about blog the books green mama green mama-to-be shop explore join the tribe >> you are here: the green mama > affiliate links affiliate links the eat naked sugar de-tox lunapads helping women feel good about their bodies, choices, and periods. life without plastic the best source of plastic-free kitchen, kid, and home wares for both the u.s. and canada. better world books featured content from around the site... ask the green mama your green questions answered real vs plastic christmas tree? do i lie about santa claus and what about the other holiday myths? how do i find a nontoxic baby crib that doesn’t cost a fortune? my child has cavities, why and now what? how do i live with lead paint & a young child? ratings & reviews the best green product ratings/reviews in the marketplace babo botanicals hydrating lip luminizer is a truly pretty, green, and healthy lip-gloss carbon sync: the greener christmas tree best board games for families inbed organics: a truly natural, organic mattress the green mama car review of the mitsubishi ev recipes & life hacks your homesteading tool box: recipes, crafts, diy, and more how to celebrate advent candles: the toxic truth, safer option, beeswax candle diy how to detoxify your personal lubricant, find healthier options, and make your own organic lube diy deodorants: safer, healthier, nontoxic alternatives how to safely clean an oven ⇡ © the green mama 2006-2020 privacy policy terms & conditions the review process contributor login the green mama participates in affiliate programs, e.g. amazon services llc associates, designed to provide a means to earn $ by advertising/linking to sites such as amazon.com, without costing the buyer. i only link to products that meet green & ethical guidelines. learn more. join the tribe >>