skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about affilate disclaimer makeawebsitehub.com affiliate disclaimer affiliate disclaimer: some links on this site redirect you to amazon. amazon is one of the biggest reliable online shops. makeawebsitehub.com is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. we or our advertising partners may use cookies to monitor clicks or for informational basis only. prices may have changed and we have no control over it. we may earn money from referring you to amazon. clicking any of the links on this website does not increase the cost or affect the price for any product you purchase from amazon. our main purpose is for informational purpose and not for earning. further information about affiliate links on makeawebsitehub.com we want to be able to provide all the information you see on this site completely free of charge. the way we do this is by earning affiliate commission from some of the products we recommend in the our reviews and tutorials. this method of making money online is called affiliate marketing. you can read more about it here: online business ideas what is affiliate marketing? how to make money blogging we negotiate excellent discounts on most of the products we recommend, so when you use one of our affiliate links, its more likely that you’ll be purchasing a service or product at a discounted rate. it goes without saying that we will only recommend a product or service that we have personally used, trust and think our readers will find useful. ftc disclosure of affiliate links makeawebsitehub.com earns a commission from referring visitors to products, software, and services using affiliate partnerships. this is our affiliate disclaimer, in compliance with the federal trade commission’s guide (ftc), and to avoid any misunderstanding to visitors of our website. we may earn a commission – at no extra cost to you – if you decide to buy any of the products, software or services we refer to and promote on our website. the opinions expressed are of our own independent reviewers & writing staff, commissioned to provide helpful reviews & their unbiased opinion. you should assume that every external link that you click on our website is an affiliate link that leads to us being paid by a partner of ours. if you find our website helpful, please support us by making a purchase via our affiliate links so that we can keep this website 100% free to use (and free from clutter i.e. banner ads and annoying popups). for more information, feel free to email me at hello (at) makeawebsitehub (dot) com jamie spencer best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub