about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ affiliate discretion when i link to products and services, those links may be affiliate links. if you click on any of those affiliate links and make a purchase within a certain time frame, i’ll earn a small commission. the commission is paid by the retailers, at no cost to you. for example, if i link to my favorite vegetable peeler, and you click on that link and complete a purchase within the next 24 hours, i may receive a commission of around 5 to 10% of your order. the payment comes from the retailer, not from you. i’m careful to link to products and retailers that i use myself and recommend. money earned keeps cookie and kate running and allows me to do what i love for a living. thank you for your support. select affiliate program details: as an amazon associate, i earn from qualifying purchases. cookie and kate is also a member of reward style, an affiliate advertising program which allows me to link to a number of reputable websites as a mean of earning advertising fees. reward style links look like this: http://rstyle.me/… hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}