barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up answers afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest naomi rogers writer shares share tweet pin welcome to the barkpost guide to dog breeds where we belly flop straight into the depths of dog breed origin, evolution, and purpose. follow along each week as we publish new guides that highlight the strangest, most interesting, and most surprising stuff about these creatures who have been our best buds the last 30,000 years. table of contents intro / overview also known as… origins size weight range personality intelligence / trainability best training techniques for afghan hounds ideal environment good for families and kids? average lifespan health energy friendly with dogs? strangers? cats/other pets? coat and grooming quirks/fun facts toys afghan hounds would like best recommended diet or supplements recommended products notable rescues to find the afghan hound of your dreams notable instagram afghan hounds intro / overview the afghan hound is one of the most ancient and beautiful dog breeds. their days hunting snow leopards left them with a strong prey drive, but these gorgeous sight hounds are much more than just hunters. strong, regal, and athletic, the afghan hound is a loyal and loving companion with a zest for life. they love to make their humans laugh, and are gentle and silly with children. perhaps the most noticeable trait of the afghan hound is their silky, flowing coat and elegant beauty. while they require a good deal of grooming, the afghan’s coat serves a higher purpose: protecting them from the harsh weather of afghanistan’s snowy mountains. also known as… the tazi spay in afghanistan, the levrier afghan in the french-speaking world, the afghanischer windhund in germany, and the ogar afgan in romania. origins afghan hounds are an extremely old breed. in fact, some believe they are the oldest purebred dogs. one myth even names them as the pair of canines chosen to board noah’s ark. what we know for sure is that the afghan hound predates written history. they were likely first bred thousands of years ago in remote areas of afghanistan, pakistan, and northern india. with excellent vision and explosive speed, afghan hounds excelled as hunting companions. their warm thick coats allowed them to endure the biting cold of mountain terrains. in addition, their muscular limbs and ability to run long distances at high speeds made them perfectly suited for hunting rabbits, foxes, gazelles, and even snow leopards. the afghan hound accompanied english officers back from asian territories in the late 1800s, and was registered by the akc in 1927. the breed became popular among american dog owners in the 1930s, and have remained so ever since! size afghan hounds grow to be between 25 and 27 inches tall at the withers (highest point of the shoulder area). females are usually on the smaller end of this range. weight range male: 55-65 lbs. female: 45-55 lbs. personality afghan hounds have an interesting dichotomy going on. on one hand, they are silly, outgoing, family-oriented companions. on the other, they can be serious, aloof and independent. the breed is known for their super-playful and clownish puppy stage. they love to entertain, and will do just about anything to get their owners’ attention (even if they have to be a bit naughty)! like humans, afghans tend to outgrow this silly stage as they mature, but having children in the home can help keep the spark alive. even if your pooch seems to be all business after the age of one, you can rest assured that they will always crave your attention. intelligence / trainability afghan hounds are quite intelligent, but their stubborn, independent nature can make them a difficult breed to train. they are very quick learners when interested and engaged in the process. however, if they become bored, they may refuse to obey. on a positive note, afghan hounds’ eagerness to please their humans means they are typically easy to housetrain. unfortunately, lovers of the breed say no amount of training will overcome their hunting instinct, so it is important to keep them safely leashed or confined in a fenced area when outdoors. best training techniques for afghan hounds with their large size and stubborn, aloof nature, afghans should receive thorough training and socialization as early as possible. this should always be accomplished with positive reinforcement. rough techniques will only cause your dog to shut down. the process may take a great deal of patience and perseverance, but the well-behaved pup you end up with is worth the efforts! ideal environment the afghan hound is considered a high-energy breed that requires plenty of exercise to prevent boredom and bad behavior. experts say they should receive several walks totaling at least a mile or two per day, and have a large, fenced yard for running. for these reasons, their ideal environment is a home surrounded by several acres of fenced land. however, if this is not possible, an active urban lifestyle will do. remember, these dogs have powerful prey drives they simply cannot resist. allowing them outside without a leash or safety fence is inviting tragedy, and many afghan hounds have lost their lives in the road. not to mention the fact that they may harm or kill neighborhood pets or wildlife. when choosing a fence, remember that afghans are tall, lean, and muscular, making them excellent jumpers! despite all that, these dogs certainly have their lazy side, and can be excellent partners for vegging out in front of the tv – as long as their exercise needs are met first! good for families and kids? the afghan hound is a loyal, loving family dog that is gentle and attentive with children. however, like any large dog, they may accidentally harm small children during play. kids should never be left unattended with an afghan hound or any other breed. for the safety of the dog and the child, all interactions must be supervised by an adult. average lifespan 12 – 18 years. health like any breed, there are certain health conditions afghan hounds are predisposed to. this does not mean your dog will develop any of the following problems, but it is always best to be informed. sensitivity to anesthesia: since afghan hounds have such low body fat percentages, they tend to be sensitive to anesthesia. be sure your veterinarian is familiar with sight hounds before booking any surgical procedures. hip dysplasia: like many large breed dogs, afghans are prone to genetic malformation of the hip socket known as hip dysplasia. the condition can cause lameness and painful arthritis. bloat: this life-threatening swelling and twisting of the abdomen occurs mainly in barrel-chested breeds like afghan hounds. owners should educate themselves about what to watch for and what to do should bloat occur. juvenile cataracts: older dogs often suffer from cataracts, but afghan hounds may develop them when they are young. cataracts cause the lens of the eye to become filmy and opaque which impairs your dog’s vision. hypothyroidism: low thyroid levels may result in symptoms such as chronic ear infections, bacterial infections of the skin, hair loss, lethargy, and depression. the condition is usually well-maintained with medication and diet. energy as mentioned above, afghan hounds are very high energy and have an insurmountable prey drive. they require more than just the usual walk through the neighborhood as well as safety precautions to keep them from taking off after a cat or squirrel. ideally, they should have a set exercise routine involving the opportunity to run and experience new sights and smells. their intelligence and eagerness to learn make them great candidates for canine sports like agility and nose work. friendly with dogs? afghan hounds are typically sociable with other dogs, but may chase smaller pups that show fear or other “prey” behaviors. they tend to bond closely to other dogs in the home, and enjoy having a live-in playmate. strangers? afghan fans describe their temperament as aloof or even standoffish with new humans. although rarely aggressive, they are likely to hurt your guests’ feelings with their utter indifference. some hounds may bark to alert you of a stranger’s presence, but this breed is not known for its watchdog skills. cats/other pets? the afghan hound can be found on many lists with titles such as “dog breeds that do not get along with cats.” while they do have a strong prey drive, they can learn to coexist with other small pets in the home. the key is thorough training with an experienced professional. coat and grooming afghan puppies have very different coats than their adult counterparts. their hair is short and fuzzy and requires little maintenance. as adults, however, their coats grow long and silky and require regular bathing as well as daily brushing to prevent mats and tangles. their hair is very fine and they have a lot of it, so a high-quality canine conditioner is a helpful addition to your afghan grooming routine. on a positive note, they are very low shedders. quirks/fun facts afghan hounds can run up to 40 miles per hour. that’s as fast as a purebred racehorse! the adorable facial hair of afghan puppies is known as “monkey whiskers” – how cute is that?! toys afghan hounds would like best with their incredible speed, high energy, and desire to chase small creatures, afghan hounds adore durable fetch toys they can chase down and “kill” over and over again. those that make a delightful squeak are even more desirable. additionally, thinker toys or puzzle toys are excellent for keeping active, intelligent dogs busy when you cannot be with them. finally, indulge your afghan’s cuddly side with a plushy toy he can snuggle. check out this roundup of toys for the afghan’s sighthound cousin, the greyhound. recommended diet or supplements https://www.instagram.com/p/bed7_i0hcsx/ choose a high-quality, age-appropriate (puppy, adult, or senior) dog food approved by your veterinarian, or prepare your own balanced home-made diet. afghan hounds naturally have very low fat stores and protruding hipbones which is perfectly natural for the breed. however, extremely active sighthounds, such as those involved in canine sports may require additional calories to replenish their energy stores. because they are also at risk for bloat, talk to your vet about when and how to feed your afghan hound. believe it or not, exercise, quantity, and the type of bowls you choose can all impact their risk for this deadly condition. as for supplements, afghans are at risk for arthritis and other painful joint conditions. in order to help prevent and treat these issues, start your pooch on a joint care supplement as soon as he or she reaches full skeletal growth. glucosamine supplement for hip & joints bark hip + joint soft chews are veterinarian-formulated in the usa with powerful ingredients like glucosamine, msm, chondroitin, and hyaluronic acid to keep your dog’s joints strong, flexible, and pain-free. ($32.99.) additionally, full spectrum hemp oil may help afghan hounds deal with chronic pain related to hip dysplasia, as well as any anxiety they may experience when separated from you. full-spectrum hemp oil bark’s full spectrum hemp oil is made of organically grown whole plants, grown in colorado, and is non-psychoactive. ($17.99-22.99.) recommended products orthopedic ultra plush memory foam dog bed orthopedic dog beds from bark are made with ergonomic memory foam and gel foam to cradle joints and relieve the stress on pressure points. they help ensure your afghan hound gets a good night’s sleep, free from body aches. just be sure to order the xl! ($64.99.) notable rescues to find the afghan hound of your dreams afghan hound club of america national rescue afghan hound rescue of southern california northern california afghan hound rescue rescue me! afghan hound rescue north east afghan hound rescue seattle purebred dog rescue notable instagram afghan hounds herman, jacob & yoda @herman_the_afghan_hound https://www.instagram.com/p/b0ywiovh2pz/ honey the afghan hound @hunneygram view this post on instagram hello-it’s me!!! ☀️ #goodmorninghoney! #ilovebrooklyn #boreumhill #happiesthoney #baconplease #afghanhoundlovers #afghanhoundsofinstagram #afghanhound #sighthoundsofinstagram #sighthound a post shared by honey the afghan hound (@hunneygram) on aug 15, 2019 at 5:08am pdt shai & adar @adar_afghan_hound https://www.instagram.com/p/bynwmeohypd/ gypsy the afghan hound @afghan_adventures https://www.instagram.com/p/bp9-sathq16/ mizu @mizu_the_afghan_hound https://www.instagram.com/p/b0btbgmiayj/ ***looking for a gift to blow your afghan hound’s mind? spoil them with barkbox! every month barkbox delivers 2 original toys, designed in-house, 2 full bags of all-natural treats, and a chew. sign up here and receive a free extra toy every month. <– this deal is worth up to $120 in value if you sign up for a 12-month subscription! 🙂 featured image via herman_the_afghan_hound/instagram want more breed guides like this? jindo breed information guide basenji breed information guide lhasa apso breed information guide shiba inu breed information guide comments poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up naomi rogers writer lhasa apso breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts irish wolfhound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go