home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads the universe in verse 2018: full show amanda palmer and the decomposers cover joni mitchell’s “big yellow taxi” in tribute to rachel carson faster than light: marilyn nelson reads her exquisite poem about the purpose of life and how our impermanence both frustrates and fuels our creative drive labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks after silence: amanda palmer reads neil gaiman’s stunning poem celebrating rachel carson’s legacy of culture-shifting courage “nothing is ever over / life breathes life in its turn / sometimes the people listen / sometimes the people learn” by maria popova “to sin by silence, when we should protest, makes cowards out of men,” the poet ella wheeler wilcox wrote in her piercing and prescient 1914 anthem against silence. half a century later, these words would come to embolden one of the most revolutionary voices humanity has produced — a scientist who changed culture by writing like a poet. “knowing what i do, there would be no future peace for me if i kept silent,” marine biologist and poet laureate of science rachel carson (may 27, 1907–april 14, 1964) wrote to her beloved, quoting the line as she was readying to speak inconvenient truth to power — at great personal cost — in catalyzing the modern environmental movement with her 1962 book silent spring. rachel carson (courtesy of the beinecke rare book and manuscript library, yale university) this stunning notion that a long-dead poet can inspire a scientist to transform an entire society inspired the inception of the universe in verse — the annual celebration of science through poetry, which i host each spring at brooklyn’s wondrous nonprofit cultural institute pioneer works and which in turn inspired my book figuring, where carson is a central figure and the interleaving of art, science, love, and cultural change a central theme. how rachel carson signed her letters to her loved ones. (courtesy of the beinecke rare book and manuscript library, yale university) crowning the 2018 edition of the universe in verse, dedicated to carson and her far-reaching legacy, was an original poem by neil gaiman, composed for the occasion to celebrate this visionary of uncommon courage and persistence — the rare gift of one genius honoring another, delivered by a third: reading the poem was amanda palmer, herself an artist of radical courage and an ardent champion of poetry. please enjoy: after silence for rachel carson seasons on seasons. the spring is signaled by birdsong coyotes screech and yammer in the moonlight and the first flowers open. i saw two owls today in the daylight, on silent wings. they landed as one and watched me sleepily. oh who? they called. or how, or how who? then they leaned into the trunk into the sun that shone through the tight-curled buds, and vanished into dappled shadows never waiting for an answer. like the sapling that buckles the sidewalk and grows until it has reached its height all of us begin in darkness. some of us reach maturity. a few become old: we went over time’s waterfall and lived, time barely cares. we are a pool of knowledge and advice the wisdom of the tribe, but we have stumbled, fallen face-first into our new uncomfortable roles. remembering, as if it happened to someone else, the race to breed, or to succeed, the aching need that drove our thoughts and shaped each deed, those days are through. we do not need to grow, we’re done, we grew. who speaks? and why? she was killed by her breasts, by tumours in them: a clump of cells that would not listen to orders to disband no chemical suggestions that they were big enough that, sometimes, it’s a fine thing just to die, were heeded. and the trees are leafless and black against the sky and the bats in fatal whiteface sleep and rot and the jellyfish drift and pulse through the warming waters and everything changes. and some things are truly lost. wild in the weeds, the breeze scatters the seeds, and it lifts the wings of the pine processionary moth, and bears the green glint of the emerald borer, now the elms go the way of the chestnut trees. becoming memories and dusty furniture. the ash trees go the way of the elms. and somebody has to say that we never need to grow forever. that we, like the trees, can reach our full growth, and mature, in wisdom and in time, that we can be enough of us. that there can be room for other breeds and kinds and lives. who’ll whisper it: that tumours kill their hosts, and then themselves? we’re done. we grew. enough. all the gods on the hilltops and all the gods on the waves the gods that became seals the voices on the winds the quiet places, where if we are silent we can listen, we can learn. who speaks? and why? someone could ask the questions, too. like who? who knew? what’s true? and how? or who? how could it work? what happens then? are consequences consequent? the answers come from the world itself the songs are silent, and the spring is long in coming. there’s a voice that rumbles beneath us and after the end the voice still reaches us like a bird that cries in hunger or a song that pleads for a different future. because all of us dream of a different future. and somebody needs to listen. to pause. to hold. to inhale, and find the moment before the exhale, when everything is in balance and nothing moves. in balance: here’s life, here’s death, and this is eternity holding its breath. after the world has ended after the silent spring into the waiting silence another song begins. nothing is ever over life breathes life in its turn sometimes the people listen sometimes the people learn who speaks? and why? complement with “the mushroom hunters” — gaiman’s magnificent feminist science poem composed for the inaugural universe in verse, which received the rhysling award for poetry — then revisit other highlights from the first two years of the show: astrophysicist janna levin reading maya angelou’s cosmic clarion call to humanity, poet marie howe reading her stirring tribute to stephen hawking, science historian james gleick reading elizabeth bishop’s profound poem about the nature of knowledge, u.s. poet laureate tracy k. smith reading her ode to the hubble space telescope, and musician rosanne cash reading adrienne rich’s homage to marie curie. for another tribute to carson from the show, put on some good headphones and watch amanda palmer’s stunning cover of joni mitchell’s “big yellow taxi” — that iconic and bittersweet anthem of the environmental movement, inspired by the legacy of silent spring. for more about carson and how her unusual private life fomented her epoch-making cultural contribution, she occupies the final and most significant portion of figuring. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published february 7, 2019 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2019/02/07/after-silence-neil-gaiman-rachel-carson/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under amanda palmerbooksculturefiguringneil gaimanpoetryrachel carsonsciencesoundcloudthe universe in verse view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.