home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened create a book by mary jaksch fast forward for a moment and imagine that you have just published a book. imagine finding your name on amazon and seeing the book you wrote is ready for sale. wouldn’t that be a wonderful moment? now let me ask you a question: what will happen next? i mean, do you think about the income the book might generate? or do you imagine other outcomes? the reason i’m writing to you today is because the outcome i experienced after publishing my latest book was a complete surprise. a wonderful surprise! i’ll tell you about it in a moment, but first, let’s take a look at the challenges of publishing a book and how to overcome them. free workshop: how to write & launch your book to $10,000+ in 90 days the busy person's guide to getting it done in just 30 minutes per day click here to join the challenges of creating a book (and how to overcome them) writing and publishing a book is like climbing a mountain. of course, you need some effort and determination to get to the top, but the it can be a joyful journey with beautiful views along the way. choosing a route if you want to climb a mountain, you need to choose a route. some routes are more pleasurable, whereas others can get you stuck on impassable cliff faces. to choose the best route, you need to look carefully at the topic. in my case, i wanted to write a book on youthful aging. however, at first, i couldn’t figure out how to make the topic manageable. there was just so, so much to write about. i chose the route of using the agile development framework instead of the more conservative waterfall process (these are two terms from software development). waterfall is a traditional approach —where development is handled as a linear series of events from conception to production. in terms of writing a book this means spending years writing a hefty book and only getting feedback from readers after publishing. the agile development framework, on the other hand, means writing a series of shorter books so that you can use feedback from readers, as well including up-to-date information along the way. you can find out how apply the theory of agile development to writing a book in the following article: how to write and publish your first book: the secret of agile development. to get to grips with my topic, i created a mind-map with all the subtopics i could think of. from all of these, i then chose the sub-topics for the first book in the series: youthful aging secrets - live better for longer finding the flow a good book needs a sense of flow. you need to take the readers by the hand and lead them through the book. a good flow means that there is a logical sequence of information and inspiration. that’s where chapters come in. at first, i had my subtopics as a random list, but now the challenge was to sort them into a logical order. i started laying out the book on scrivener link because you can shift your subtopics around until you find a logical sequence. the challenge of writing i started writing the introduction. two paragraphs in and i got horribly stuck! looking back later on, it was no surprise that i got stuck there because you can’t really write an introduction when you don’t yet know what the completed book will look like. luckily, with scrivener, you can start anywhere. writing a book doesn’t need to be a linear process. i had found inspiring stories about people who developed their full potential later in life and so i started writing about these amazing human beings. the first drafts were disappointing. i began to wonder whether i have what it takes. but the truth is that all first drafts are cruddy. it is only when we start editing that language starts to shine. grabbing a lifeline just when my motivation began to waver and doubts started creeping in, i and that’s when i found a lifeline. someone told me about chandler bolt. that changed everything. i bought his book, published: the proven path from blank page to published author. published is an excellent book! i decided to simply followed every suggestion and, to my surprise, i was able to write and publish my book much faster and easier than expected. what happened afterward… my book, youthful aging secrets - live better for longer, had a great start. it sold well, and, after one year, it's providing a regular side income. but that wasn’t the most exciting thing. first up, my book and the successful experiments i made to lower my biological age were picked up by then national press. the article, titled there’s something about mary, was published in all weekend editions of the national papers in new zealand. this started the ball rolling. the newspaper article put me in the spotlight. i was then invited to a symposium of a hundred people to discuss how to make new zealand a country for all ages. but there was something i didn’t realize about this symposium. it was a job interview in disguise. the organizers wanted to pick the five best people to form a think tank. to my surprise, i was picked and am now involved in an important think tank which is a real honor to belong to. the good news for my book is that they’ve chosen me to be the group’s writer and public speaker who will be the public face of the think tank. of course, whenever i write an article for the think tank or have a speaking engagement, my bio has a link to my book. this outcome of writing a book was completely unexpected. i am now seen as an expert and there are more and more opportunities opening to me all the time. this is why i’m encouraging you to write a book. you’ll be amazed how it will open and enrich your life. the next phase i’m in the process of writing the second book in the series. the draft title is: grow younger: the 30 minute exercise week. luckily, i found chandler bolt’s amazing self-publishing school. it was like looking up a huge mountain with a sigh - and then discovering that there’s a chairlift you can hop onto! if you are dreaming of writing a book and want to make it happen, watch chandler bolt's free workshop, how to write & launch your book to $10,000+ in 90 days. chandler's a lovely guy with a huge smile and a positive mindset. when you watch his online workshop, you’ll be raring to start writing your book. guaranteed! free workshop: how to write & launch your book to $10,000+ in 90 days the busy person's guide to getting it done in just 30 minutes per day click here to join tweet pin share related posts 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson 4 steps to achieving your author dream by chandler bolt top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 by kristen ford about the author mary jaksch mary jaksch is best known for her exceptional training for writers at writetodone.com and for her cutting-edge book, youthful aging secrets. in her “spare” time, mary is also the brains behind goodlifezen.com, a zen master, a mother, and a 5th degree black belt. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >