aga parts, industrial machinery parts suppliers digital marketing & seo think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 aga truck parts marketing aga parts sells more truck parts and heavy machinery with robust website design and seo tactics. aga parts is a global supplier of heavy equipment and trucking parts. they provide high quality, low prices, and fast shipping of oem and aftermarket parts all over the world. web design seo the challenge aga’s main challenge was to do a lot with a little. with over 30 brands servicing international markets, the goals were multifaceted. create an exciting new website to sell intricate machine parts, target areas outside the continental us, and link up smartsites’ internal seo team with aga’s business-oriented operational managers. the task was more than just building the website, however, as ongoing marketing was crucial if aga wanted to rank for their specific part numbers. the plan perform extensive market and industry research in planning phase. prioritize featured product lines according to profitability based on keyword research and extensive communication with the client. design and develop a professional but industrially-centered website. translate the site into 4 languages to target mostly international clientele. implement an intricate link building strategy to rank for specific part numbers. the results 0% increase in total site traffic 0% increase in organic traffic 0 more organic visitors in first month of agreement aga parts before & after responsive website redesign showcase aga parts provide high quality genuine & after market parts at the lowest prices, shipped worldwide. aga parts displays new, innovative website on mobile and laptop devices aga parts's redesigned website is optimized for tablet view get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha comments this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated smartsites showed me great results fast and now they run google adwords, bing ads, and facebook ads for me. smartsites also manages the website and seo initiatives. we recently expanded our third location and continue to drive appointments through the digital marketing. studio esthetique vladimir byhovsky view 100+ more testimonials excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials alex really is excellent at marketing and since i have joined, our business has tripled this month. he really cares about his clients growth. being a new business growing my business slow and steady with smartsites is by far one of the wisest choices that i have made! lifestyle directives group shari wasserman view 100+ more testimonials they did a great job and i noticed the positive results almost immediately. they are professional and very pleasant to work with. they had responded to all my emails within 1 hour window. i am very happy with the services provided and i highly recommend to everyone. new jersey mediation maryana kanda view 100+ more testimonials they have a team approach that allows them to efficiently work on your projects. their methods of communication is efficient as well. in the midst of working on our project now and already impressed! i would suggest smart sites to anyone looking for an all around great web development company. easw andy holst view 100+ more testimonials mike and his team proved to be an invaluable resource. smartsites was there to ensure that the final product matched our vision perfectly. they take the time to learn their clients’ business inside and out, and are a key part of the team every step of the way. sharemoney steven taylor view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: case studies aga truck parts recent posts posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect