what i do ethos portfolio quote contact i build wordpress websites and manage digital technology for small companies and non-profits. what i do ethos portfolio contact what i do website design & build i can design your first website, provide ongoing maintenance and support or solve a particular problem. i can optimize your current site for speed and performance using benchmark tests and can troubleshoot hacked sites or those simply not working anymore. if you’re looking for newsletters, forums or social media i can help with that as well or work with existing partners. platforms and technology i primarily use wordpress. it is the most popular system for creating websites (59.9% of all cms driven sites – jul 2018), it’s versatile, expandable and is as complex or as simple as you need it to be. that’s why i like it. but i have worked with many other cms systems including drupal, joomla, and custom-built applications so legacy technology is not a problem. enterprise i also have a wealth of experience managing digital projects from concept to delivery as well as managing internal teams to develop digital best practice. this also includes the gdpr. i advise on, implement and manage the adoption of, or migration to, cloud applications such as office 365, google suite and salesforce and ensure you have ongoing support. ethos ethos my aim is to help you make better use of digital technology; from managing and building your first website, developing your ongoing brand and deploying new features and functionality. i try to demystify and simplify this process; by advising on what is essential and most effective for you. no smoke and no mirrors! working practice i am self-employed and can work independently or as part of a team. i split my time between my home office and working on site and am always available by phone, video chat or email. i provide discounted rates and pro bono work to selected non-profits and social enterprises. i donate some of my personal time to reachvolunteering and the library of things. sectors and industries a selection of recent clients include: juliet dunn bourgeon make music day action against hunger the f-word waging peace give2hours p3bulletin.com jbturnerauthor.com norburyhallpark.org.uk got a question? name email address message number 8 + 4 = submit connect problem retrieving data from twitter twitter error code: 89 - invalid or expired token. please check the twitter name in the widget or shortcode, rotating tweets settings or the twitter api status. follow follow follow facebook linkedin twitter © 2019 | built by agilityweb