ahrefs tools site explorer keywords explorer site audit rank tracker content explorer seo toolbar pricing help blog academy our data deutsch english español français italiano 한국어 日本語 nederlands polski português русский svenska türkçe 中文 sign in start a 7-day trial for $7 deutsch english español français italiano 한국어 日本語 nederlands polski português русский svenska türkçe 中文 tools to grow your search traffic, research your competitors and monitor your niche ahrefs helps you learn why your competitors rank so high and what you need to do to outrank them. start a 7-day trial for $7 2,577 users joined us in the last 7 days the tools you get with ahrefs we add new tools and features regularly. competitive analysis keyword research backlink research content research rank tracking web monitoring arrow organic search report analyze your competitors' search traffic. see the exact keywords for which your competitors rank in organic search and the amount of traffic driven by each of them. use the top pages report to see which pages send the most traffic to their sites. use the content gap feature to uncover the keywords they rank for but you don't. we have data for 150 million keywords in the united states alone (+ more for over 150 other countries), so you get the best possible coverage with ahrefs. site explorer tool keywords explorer thousands of keyword ideas, keyword difficulty and advanced metrics. get thousands of relevant keyword suggestions from our mammoth database of over 3 billion keywords. use the keyword difficulty score and our advanced keyword metrics to decide which keywords to target. keywords explorer also shows you annual search volume trends and gives you some great insights into searchers' behavior and serp ranking history. keywords explorer tool backlink data the best backlink checker tool in the industry. ahrefs is proud to run the world’s largest index of live backlinks. our robots constantly crawl 54 billion web pages, and every 15 minutes we update our index with the fresh data they report. put any website or url into site explorer to see all its backlinks and some useful seo metrics. advanced reports and handy filters let you dig real deep into the data that we have for you. other reports in site explorer tool content explorer research what content works well in your niche. put any keyword into this tool to see which content has performed best in terms of social buzz, number of backlinks and organic search traffic. find all articles that mentioned your target keyword and use the "highlight unlinked domains" feature to see which of these websites have never linked to you. content explorer tool rank tracker get accurate location-specific ranking reports. we track your desktop and mobile keyword rankings from any location and plot your full ranking history on a handy graph. you can set up automated ranking reports to be sent to your email address, so you’ll never forget to check your ranking progress. rank tracker tool alerts monitor your niche for opportunities. get an email notification whenever you or your competitors win or lose a backlink. this is a great way to track their pr and linkbuilding activities and your own, almost in real time. set up alerts for any keywords related to your brand, business, product or service. whenever someone mentions one of these keywords on their website, you get an email notification with a link to that page. this way you can also track who is talking about your competitors online, so that you can jump into relevant conversations and exploit these opportunities immediately. alerts the best and most complete data in the industry powers ahrefs' tools every day we crawl: 5 billion web pages our index size: 16 trillion known links 170 million root domains 3 trillion known urls powered by: 48 petabytes of storage 65000 cpu cores learn more about our data more ahrefs perks 24/5 customer support have a question, concern or feedback for us? our support team is a quick chat or email away — 24 hours a day, monday to friday. private facebook community take full advantage of insights from highly-accomplished seo specialists and digital marketers in our customers-only community. tailored learning materials the marketing tutorials on our blog and youtube channel, and in the ahrefs academy, often feature our tools. unlock their potential with full access. new features released regularly our development cycle is fast. we frequently update existing tools and release new features — many of which are heavily influenced by requests from our customers. recommended by leading experts in marketing and seo when it comes to backlink analysis, ahrefs is my #1 go-to tool. i've tested over 25 link analysis tools and none comes close to ahrefs in terms of index size, freshness and overall usability. if you're serious about seo, you need ahrefs. brian dean founder of backlinko as part of our job at authority hacker, we test every seo tool out there to try and determine which is the best. because ahrefs comes ahead in 99% of the cases, some of our readers are starting to call us biased. please stop being good at everything, it's hurting our reputation. gael breton co-founder of authorityhacker ahrefs is a great tool. the data is fresh, the usability is fantastic and you guys keep adding great new features to the platform. aaron wall founder of seobook at outspoken media, we rely on ahrefs daily to help us achieve great results for our clients. what makes ahrefs invaluable to us are its intuitive design, reliable data, and innovative features. ahrefs is a must-have for serious digital marketers and seos. rhea drysdale ceo at outspoken media what i love about ahrefs is their commitment to speed, design and innovation. the data is fresh, relevant, and granular enough to allow us to make very actionable decisions. i love that they’ve made significant moves to continually innovate and add new features. not only do they make us stronger as an agency, but they’ve kept the entire seo software industry on its toes. michael king founder of ipullrank we use ahrefs mainly for its site explorer, and it’s immensely improved how we find link targets. we use it both for getting quick analysis of a site, as well as utilizing its extensive index when we want to dive deep. it's invaluable to have one tool that can do both of those things. jon cooper founder of hyperlynx media used by marketers of esteemed companies 7 days. 7 dollars. full access. our 7-day trial gives you full access to all tools and features of your chosen plan. start your 7-day trial for $7 learn seo with ahrefs seo basics how to learn seo 75 actionable seo tips complete seo audit process link building complete link building guide 9 easy link building strategies how to do guest blogging at scale keyword research how to do keyword research long-tail keywords guide how to gauge keyword difficulty how to use google keyword planner more blog articles youtube tutorials academy video courses main tools site explorer keywords explorer site audit rank tracker content explorer seo toolbar extra tools domain comparison batch analysis link intersect content gap email alerts word count features backlink checkertry for free broken link checkertry for free website authority checkertry for free keyword generatortry for free youtube keyword tooltry for free amazon keyword tooltry for free bing keyword tooltry for free serp checker seo analyzer keyword rank checker keyword difficulty about team jobs our data seo blog tech blog robot pricing api help contact us twitter youtube instagram © 2020 ahrefs pte. ltd. (201227417h) 16 raffles quay, #33-03 hong leong building, singapore 048581 terms & conditions | privacy policy sign in connect with a social network sign in with facebook sign in with google or sign in with email remember me forgot your password sign in don’t have an account? sign up your password is not secure a recent security check found that your ahrefs password is not secure. to protect your ahrefs account, we've temporarily restricted your access and request you to update your password. please head over to your inbox and follow the link in our email to change your password. please note that this is purely a preventive measure, and we're sorry for the inconvenience. 7 days. 7 dollars. full access. our 7-day trial gives you full access to all tools and features of your chosen plan. lite 7 days for $7, then $99/mo suits freelance marketers and solopreneurs. get full access to ahrefs' core tools and features with enough data to do seo for your personal projects. standard 7 days for $7, then $179/mo perfect for seo consultants and in-house marketers. get everything in lite with more features and increased data limits to research a large number of websites. i accept ahrefs' terms of use continue you can upgrade, downgrade, or cancel your subscription anytime. no contracts, no hidden charges. check your email we're sending you a link to activate your ahrefs subscription. please check your inbox (and spam folder in case) in the next 10 minutes. got it