skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search aigars silkalns this author has written 102 articles home » archives for aigars silkalns the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 1 comment any person who is marketing any product or service online understands the value of an email list. it refers to a list of potential consumers for your product or service collected diligently over a period of time. the marketing automation… read more→ 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 0 comments the footer of any website is usually a very much neglected space. this is not a good practice especially when every bit of design effort is geared towards attracting and holding a viewer's attention. in such a scenario, can you… read more→ the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 2 comments a directory website is one where the names, addresses, contact and other details of like or similar individuals or organizations are grouped together, so that they can be accessed from one location. examples would be a real estate listing directory,… read more→ the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 1 comment if your business depends on showcasing your abilities or your past work, then surely you need a portfolio-based website. generally speaking, it's easier to convince potential customers with a display of your past accomplishments. you can let images speak for… read more→ 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 1 comment collecting money for a good cause is not always an easy task. but you can make it a little easier for yourself by adding a prominent donation button on your website. while a collection box placed near any street corner… read more→ the best free wordpress font plugins to change fonts with ease 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 2 comments a major and important part of any web design is typography. the type of fonts that you use on your website reflects the nature of your website and can help to reinforce your brand in the visitors' minds. for instance,… read more→ 34 consulting wordpress themes to help your consulting business grow online 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 35 comments a huge list of the most modern and professional consulting wordpress themes to supercharge your business today. how to make a great consulting website with wordpress? first, you need a good hosting service and a cms. for thousands of companies… read more→ top 54 high-quality wordpress themes for corporate, ecommerce & portfolio websites 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 20 comments wordpress is renowned as the best and most user-friendly cms platform by most blogger, developers, and website owners. along with its popularity in the market, website templates specially designed for wordpress powered website also flourished. many website developers and startup… read more→ 29 most popular premium and free social sharing plugins for wordpress 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 34 comments social sharing is now an integral part of our internet experience. furthermore, it's constantly on the rise and becoming popular with older folk as well. with so much information on the internet, it is a real feat to track down… read more→ 17 best search plugins for wordpress to make the most out of search 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 33 comments here you will find all the best wordpress search plugins for your website to replace flimsy default wordpress search. did you know that the default wordpress search engine isn’t really that efficient (and awesome) like the rest of wordpress? although… read more→ top wordpress maintenance plugins to handle planned website downtime like a pro march 26, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 2 comments i've already discussed what causes unplanned downtime and what unplanned downtime might cost a business in a previous article. this post, on the other hand, looks at how you can tackle some planned downtime. planned downtime may be due to… read more→ the best 18 wordpress autoblogging plugins 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 2 comments if you're managing a blog, you'll be aware how difficult it is to post fresh content regularly. relevant and valuable content is necessary for a blog to have good readership. sometimes, when you want to ease up on writing fresh… read more→ 13 best free wordpress pagination plugins for 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 0 comments numbering the pages is an important requirement for any blog that has a large number of posts. that's why it forms a part of the core features in wordpress. wordpress offers simple pagination settings for your blog. at the end… read more→ 31 awesome technology news magazine wordpress themes 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 43 comments a comprehensive list of the best tech news wordpress themes for magazine style websites. amazingly, you don’t need to be an experienced web developer to run an exemplary site. the only things required by a perfect tech news site are… read more→ must have free wordpress plugins for your website in 2020 march 25, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 0 comments created a new website and now looking at what essential free wordpress plugins you need for the website? this article will give you all the details about free wp plugins that you need and might want to use. one of… read more→ 20 best free wordpress plugins for multisites for 2020 march 25, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 3 comments many users run not one, but multiple sites. if you're using wordpress, you really do not have to build each site from scratch. you can install wordpress and then run as many websites as you want off the single install.… read more→ page 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 … page 7 next disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×