ajenti docs docs (1.x) kb github the admin panel your servers deserve install instructions ajenti 2 lightweight admin panel ajenti core extensible web-ui framework ajenti 1.x server admin panel ajenti v for 1.x web hosting on fast remote access for every occasion install once and never google for putty downloads again. an admin's tool for a more civilized age, providing you with a fast and secure way to manage a remote linux box at any time using everyday tools like a web terminal, text editor, file manager and others. access everywhere responsive remote terminal fully extensible with python and js tech specs general source open licensing mit os debian, ubuntu, rhel, centos, gentoo, easily portable to other linux and bsd ram ~30 mb + 5 mb per session hdd ~75 mb, including python runtime and libs backend language: python 2.7/3.4 framework: gevent extensibility: pluggable, modular architecture frontend language: js, es6 or coffeescript framework: angularjs install instructions get started with plugin development build web interfaces fast building network hardware? computerized industrial appliances? a web-ui for coffee machines? we've got you covered. ajenti core is a streamlined and reusable framework for building web interfaces of all kinds. a powerful backend written in python and powered by gevent coroutine engine, ajenti core is a highly modular and extensible framework. clean, well-documented interfaces embedded webserver high performance security through sandboxing and a beautiful interface based google's angularjs and twitter's bootstrap libraries, ajenti core gives you tools to build modern interfaces as fast as possible. instead of spending time over and over again writing basic web interface code, you can now spend it on actually making your product better. single-page ajax-based frontend responsive layout mobile and tablet support tech specs general source open licensing mit os debian, ubuntu, rhel, centos, gentoo, easily portable to other linux and bsd ram ~30 mb + 5 mb per session hdd ~75 mb, including python runtime and libs backend language: python 2.7/3.4 framework: gevent extensibility: pluggable, modular architecture frontend language: js, es6 or coffeescript framework: angularjs get started with the development want to know more? keep scrolling! what's in the box? ajenti core includes: http/1.1 web server with ssl and client certificate authentication support highly modular python api. everything is a module and can be removed or replaced fast event loop i/o python framework incl. dependency injection engine, http and websocket handler api websockets engine frontend angularjs-based framework and ui component set stock remote apis: account management, filesystema access, augeas remoting. proper user interface angularjs based framework incl. tree-style page navigation with a sidebar clean, modern and responsive ui. single-page, no reloads full mobile and tablet support live data updates and streaming with socket.io notifications, modals, live updates, messages, etc less and css, coffeescript and javascript auto-build support. framework frontend angularjs-based framework and ui component set websockets engine stock remote apis: account management, filesystema access, augeas remoting. pluggable authentication and authorization: pam, custom account stores, custom permissions sessions are isolated in separate processes according to account level take me back ... here's why you should too: batteries included includes lots of plugins for system and software configuration, monitoring and management. doesn't screw up your system ajenti won't damage your existing configuration or tell you how to do your job. preserves config structure and comments. extensible easily extensible using python. plugin development is fast and pleasant with rich apis. dashboard firewall file manager nginx terminal services looking for a web interface for your product? take a look at ajenti core 2 download ajenti v is a plugin suite for ajenti 1.x, which adds fast, efficient and easy-to-setup web hosting capabilities. feature highlights easy web hosting ajenti v makes website setup easy - including app servers, database, and routing. language support php (php-fpm), python (wsgi), ruby (puma and unicorn) and node.js are supported. mail automatic configuration of exim 4 and courier imap, including virtual e-mails, dkim, dmarc and spf. cli interface includes tools for cli control, deployment, and ci integration. pro stack web server + app servers + database + supervisor screenshots websites website settings domains and ports content mysql beta warning at the moment, ajenti v is a beta. although many people use ajenti v to host their websites for some time now, your mileage may vary. feedback & support report a bug github download what people say about ajenti as an organisation anchored in academic/educational sector where funds are tight and thus offering the very best of what is available on commercial market is not always an option, we were more than delighted to discover ajenti as a viable new alternative to existing commercial (plesk, cpanel) and opensource solutions (e.g webmin). due to the nature of our vps scheme, offering our users supported/managed vps and thus limiting their administrative rights (absence of root privileges) on tasks like ownership and permission modification, editing apache virtual host rules etc., modular structure of ajenti proved to be the answser to all our needs: allowing our users only limited administration options in a clear and logical graphical environment. working with the ajenti team through formal and informal channels was such a breeze. they were more than responsive, listened and implemented our numerous proposals which made ajenti more suitable for our specific needs. now, ajenti will become flagship feature of our new vps package. nejc vičič, miloš gajić academic and research network of slovenia the academic and research network of slovenia conducts development, operation and management of the communication and information network for education and research. arnes also operates the slovenian internet exchange. ajenti is such an easy to install yet powerful server admin panel - http://t.co/flu5j9qcbj — arnaud de theux (@adetheux) july 21, 2014 pondering switching from @virtualmin to @ajenti in production. #webdev #devops #sysadmins — guy hughes (@iguyhughes) april 7, 2014 @ajenti nodejs & php sites in paralel done right — sorin gitlan (@esgy_eu) may 27, 2014 i got hand on experience on "ajenti" for @ubuntu server administration. even ajenti's framework is good way coded. — t€¶@$ t@nk (@snippetbucket) may 24, 2014 ajenti isn't only for servers! we needed a simple-yet-powerful interface for administration of our free and open source turn-key web kiosk, sanickiosk. sanickiosk is used in public and business settings to provide open or filtered web browsing and digital signage. we required a solution that allowed for off-site administration of our kiosks, and considered ajenti as well as several other admin panels. sanickiosk uses a two-tier system for administration, with sysadmins having access to operating system and network settings and kiosk administrators (many with minimal technical knowledge) having only the ability to alter kiosk configuration settings such as the browser homepage and screensavers. with assistance from ajenti's helpful and knowledgable team we were able to design our own custom plugins for ajenti, providing our non-technical users with a simplified and unintimidating user interface while still providing our power users an interface containing the tools they require. no other admin panel we considered was as flexible. we are pleased to utilize such an amazing product like ajenti in such a fresh and radical new way. scott sanicki sanickiosk is a free and open source turn-key web kiosk which can be used in public or business spaces to provide internet or intranet services. it can be used for open or filtered web browsing or for digital signage. contributing to ajenti github make plugins translate special thanks codemirror: http://codemirror.net/ font awesome: http://fortawesome.github.io/font-awesome/ pyte: https://github.com/selectel/pyte cdn by jsdelivr & maxcdn © ajenti project