primary menu property overview features amenities residences features floorplans views boca west membership features property map amenities location map the neighborhood team the developer the architect the interior designer the sales group news contact brokers (561) 599-5330 downloads residence – southwest elevation & golf views your life of perfection begins today at the boca west country club in boca raton luxury condominiums from $1.3 million to over $4 million. move in now! visit our 10 furnished model residences today. inspired by pure enjoyment and defined by sophisticated style and gracious service, akoya boca west country club is an invitation to live life lustrously. 113 boca raton condos for sale conveniently located on the grounds of the #1 private residential country club in the nation offer never-before-seen access to a world of championship golf, tennis, swimming, superb dining, social events, and relaxation – all with the exclusivity of a private boutique building. akoya features residence – arrival the address 24-hour security within the gates of boca west, the #1 private residential country club in the nation within walking distance to 400,000 sq. ft. of club facilities and amenities, renowned for phenomenal dining, golf, tennis, spa, fitness and activities a centralized boca raton location with easy access to i-95, florida’s turnpike and the sawgrass expressway world-class shopping and dining available nearby at mizner park and the town center mall conveniently located near the private boca raton airport, palm beach and fort lauderdale-hollywood international airports home of the miami heat, miami dolphins, miami marlins and the florida panthers the ideal country club address sitting on a lush seven-acre site, akoya departs from standard country club living with a 10-story contemporary building; spacious, flow-through residences; and amenities drawn from the finest resort and residential trends from around the world. experience the exquisite it’s a beautiful life - every day created to blend the pleasures of an award‑winning club with the serenity of life in a brand-new boutique residential building, akoya delivers 400,000 square feet of world‑class club facilities and amenities steps from your front door. you’re also never more than a few minutes away from shopping at mizner park and boca town center, arts and entertainment, beaches, and two international airports for visiting anywhere else in the world. residence - resort-style pool the property dramatic porte-cochère arrival court with valet resort-style swimming pool and sun deck featuring intimate lounging areas and lush tropical landscaping 24-hour, state-of-the-art fitness center private enclosed garage parking with a minimum of two spaces assigned to each residence privacy-controlled elevator system with direct access into private foyer card room and lavish social room designed for parties and social events air-conditioned resident storage areas charging stations for electric cars take a photo tour of south florida's newest, luxury condominium residences within a country club community take photo tour residence - front view perfection isn’t an illusion – it’s a destination. news and updates your residence awaits. experience your piece of perfection facebook instagram twitter on-site sales gallery / 20155 boca west dr., boca raton, fl 33434 / (561) 599-5330 disclaimer privacy policy x disclaimer oral representations cannot be relied upon as correctly stating the representations of the developer. for correct representations, make reference to the documents required by section 718.503, florida statutes, to be furnished by a developer to a buyer or lessee. all dimensions are approximate. plans, materials and specifications are subject to architectural, structural and other revisions as they are deemed advisable by the developer, builder or architect, or as may be required by law. boca west country club, inc. is a private club. all parties who intend to purchase real property located within boca west must apply to and be approved by the club to obtain a club membership. all parties approved as and who become club members shall be subject to and must comply with the club’s articles of incorporation, bylaws and rules and regulations. the complete offering terms are in a cps-12 application and florida prospectus, which are both available from developer. a cps-12 application has been accepted by the new york state department of law as file no. cp17-0048. x privacy policy protecting your private information is our priority. this privacy policy applies only to information we collect through our website and does not apply to our collection of information from other sources. by using this website you consent to this privacy policy. changes to this policy we will occasionally update this privacy policy. please review the privacy policy periodically to be informed of how we are protecting your information. information we collect we use your personal information to operate our website and deliver the services you request. we do not automatically collect personally identifiable information when you visit, however, you may submit it in connection with a feature, program, promotion or some other aspect of our website. whether or not you provide this information is your choice; however, in many instances this type of information is required to participate, receive a benefit or gain access to certain content on our website. information about your computer hardware and software may be automatically collected. this information may include your ip address. browser type, operating system, domain names, access times, search terms, specific web pages visited, duration of visit and third-party websites from which your visit originated how we use and share this information we require this information to understand your needs and provide you with better service. in certain instances we may also share your information with our third-party vendors performing functions on our behalf. except as provided in this privacy policy, your personally identifiable information will not be shared or sold to any third parties without your prior approval. we use the anonymous information in a variety of ways, including analyzing site traffic, understanding customer needs and trends, carrying out targeted promotional activities and improving our services. we may share this information with our affiliated companies and third parties to achieve these objectives. cookies and preference-based advertising we use cookies and web beacons on this site. a cookie is a piece of date stored on your hard drive to help us improve your access to our site and identify repeat visitors. cookies enable us to respond to you as an individual. web beacons are tiny graphics with a unique identifier, similar in function to cookies, and may be used to track the online movements of users, when an email has been opened and to provide other information. it is important to note that the cookies and web beacons do not contain personally identifiable information about you. you can choose to accept or decline cookies. most web browsers automatically accept them, but you can modify your browser setting to decline cookies. some of our business partners may use cookies on our site. this information is typically used by these companies to display advertisements tailored to meet your preferences and needs. we have no access to or control over these cookies. public forums we may offer chat rooms, blogs, message boards, bulletin boards or forums where you and other users of our website communicate. the protections described in this privacy policy do not apply in these public forums. any information you share in a public forum is public information and may be seen or collected by anyone, including third parties that do not adhere to our privacy policy. we are not responsible for events arising from any information you choose to publicly post or share. children we do not knowingly collect information from children under the age of thirteen. if you are under the age of thirteen, you must ask a parent or guardian for permission to use this website. security of your personal information we take precautions to protect your information from unauthorized access, use or disclosure. links to other sites our website may link to or contain links to enable you to visit other websites of interest easily. once you used these links, you have left our website. we are not responsible for the privacy practices employed by any third-party websites. exercise caution and look at the privacy statement applicable to the website in question. contact & opt-out information we respect your privacy and are happy to provide an opportunity for you to opt-out of receiving unwanted correspondence. we welcome your questions or comments about our privacy statement. feel free to contact us via the phone number and email address provided within this website. about google analytics the google analytics features you've implemented based on display advertising (e.g., remarketing, google display network impression reporting, the doubleclick campaign manager integration, or google analytics demographics and interest reporting). using the ads settings, users can opt-out of google analytics for display advertising and customize google display network ads.