editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. news latest 36 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 37 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 40 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime alabama gov. refuses to issue shelter in place order: ‘we are not california’ by cristina cabrera | march 27, 2020 9:58 a.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. alabama gov. kay ivey (r) said during a new conference on thursday that she would not issue a shelter in place order that 21 other states have enacted to prevent further spread of covid-19. “y’all, we are not louisiana, we are not new york state, we are not california,” ivey told a reporter who had asked about a potential order. “and right now is not the time to order people to shelter in place.” the governor asserted that businesses need to stay open to provide food, medical supplies and jobs. “we’ve got have all the materials that are needed to keep alabamians working as much as we can,” she said. ivey’s comments echoed president donald trump’s insistence that people ought to go back to work to save the economy, even though medical experts have warned that doing so would put lives at risk. last week, ivey had issued a “stay at home if possible” directive, which she defined as advisement for alabamians to “limit interaction with people as much as you can.” she has also closed the state’s schools. as of friday morning, there are 538 confirmed cases of the coronavirus and three deaths in alabama, per the state’s department of health. watch ivey below: cristina cabrera (@crismcabrera) is a newswriter at tpm based in new york. she previously worked for vocativ, usa today and ny1 news. have a tip? send it here! includes: alabamacovid-19kay iveysocial distancing more in news 36 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 37 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 40 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime comments advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy