home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads anaïs nin on inner conflict, the interconnectedness of all things, and what maturity really means poet and philosopher david whyte on anger, forgiveness, and what maturity really means the best of brain pickings 2015 labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks alain de botton on existential maturity and what emotional intelligence really means “the emotionally intelligent person knows that they will only ever be mentally healthy in a few areas and at certain moments, but is committed to fathoming their inadequacies and warning others of them in good time, with apology and charm.” by maria popova “maturity is the ability to live fully and equally in multiple contexts,” poet and philosopher david whyte wrote in one of his most beautiful meditations. a generation before him, anaïs nin took up the subject in her diary, which is itself a work of philosophy: “if you intensify and complete your subjective emotions, visions, you see their relation to others’ emotions. it is not a question of choosing between them, one at the cost of another, but a matter of completion, of inclusion, an encompassing, unifying, and integrating which makes maturity.” and yet emotional maturity is not something that happens unto us as a passive function of time. it is, as toni morrison well knew, “a difficult beauty, an intensely hard won glory” — the product of intentional character-sculpting, the slow and systematic chiseling away of our childish impulses for tantrums, for sulking, for instant self-gratification without regard for others, for weaponizing our feelings of shame, frustration, and loneliness. like happiness — another life-skill we have miscategorized as a passive abstraction — it requires early education, consistent relearning, and unrelenting practice. that is what alain de botton, one of our era’s most uncommonly perceptive, lyrical, and lucid existential contemplatives, offers in the school of life: an emotional education (public library) — the book companion to his wonderful global academy for self-refinement, a decade in the making. alain de botton de botton considers the type of learning with which the road to emotional maturity is paved: the knack of our species lies in our capacity to transmit our accumulated knowledge down the generations. the slowest among us can, in a few hours, pick up ideas that it took a few rare geniuses a lifetime to acquire. yet what is distinctive is just how selective we are about the topics we deem it possible to educate ourselves in. our energies are overwhelmingly directed toward material, scientific, and technical subjects and away from psychological and emotional ones. much anxiety surrounds the question of how good the next generation will be at math; very little around their abilities at marriage or kindness. we devote inordinate hours to learning about tectonic plates and cloud formations, and relatively few fathoming shame and rage. the assumption is that emotional insight might be either unnecessary or in essence unteachable, lying beyond reason or method, an unreproducible phenomenon best abandoned to individual instinct and intuition. we are left to find our own path around our unfeasibly complicated minds — a move as striking (and as wise) as suggesting that each generation should rediscover the laws of physics by themselves. art by mouni feddag for a letter by alain de botton from a velocity of being: letters to a young reader. available as a print. this irrational orientation to our emotional lives, de botton argues, is our inheritance from the romantics, who crowned the untrained intuition the supreme governing body of human conduct. (and yet the romantics contained multitudes — for all their belief in the unalterable givenness of emotional reality and the fidelity of feeling, they had a glimmering recognition that reason must be consciously applied to reining in the wildness of the emotions. mary shelley, offspring of the greatest power couple of political philosophy, placed at the heart of frankenstein — one of the most prescient and psychologically insightful works of literature ever composed, triply so for being the work of an eighteen-year-old girl — an admonition against the unbridled reign of the ego’s emotional cravings unchecked by reason and forethought of consequence.) exception aside, de botton’s broader point is excellent: the results of a romantic philosophy are everywhere to see: exponential progress in the material and technological fields combined with perplexing stasis in the psychological one. we are as clever with our machines and technologies as we are simple-minded in the management of our emotions. we are, in terms of wisdom, little more advanced than the ancient sumerians or the picts. we have the technology of an advanced civilization balancing precariously on an emotional base that has not developed much since we dwelt in caves. we have the appetites and destructive furies of primitive primates who have come into possession of thermonuclear warheads. in 1983, the psychologist howard gardner devised his seminal theory of multiple intelligences, expanding our narrow cultural definition of intelligence as verbal and mathematical skill to include seven other modes of intellectual ability. a decade later, daniel goleman added a tenth form of intelligence — emotional intelligence — which quickly permeated the fabric of popular culture as hoards of humans felt suddenly recognized in an endowment long neglected as a valuable or even extant faculty of consciousness. building on that legacy, de botton brings his own sensitive perspicacity to a richer, more dimensional definition: the emotionally intelligent person knows that love is a skill, not a feeling, and will require trust, vulnerability, generosity, humor, sexual understanding, and selective resignation. the emotionally intelligent person awards themselves the time to determine what gives their working life meaning and has the confidence and tenacity to try to find an accommodation between their inner priorities and the demands of the world. the emotionally intelligent person knows how to hope and be grateful, while remaining steadfast before the essentially tragic structure of existence. the emotionally intelligent person knows that they will only ever be mentally healthy in a few areas and at certain moments, but is committed to fathoming their inadequacies and warning others of them in good time, with apology and charm… there are few catastrophes, in our own lives or in those of nations, that do not ultimately have their origins in emotional ignorance. de botton is careful to acknowledge that this line of inquiry might trigger the modern intellectual allergy to the genre of learning dismissively labeled self-help. and yet he reminds us that the quest for self-refinement has always accompanied the human experience and animated each civilization’s most respected intellects — it is there at the heart of the stoics, and in the essays of montaigne, and at the center of zen buddhism, and in the literary artistry of proust (whom de botton has especially embraced as a fount of existential consolation). he aims a spear of simple logic to the irrational and rather hubristic disdain for self-help: to dismiss the idea that underpins self-help — that one might at points stand in urgent need of solace and emotional education — seems an austerely perverse prejudice. art by corinna luyken from my heart — an emotional intelligence primer in the form of an uncommonly tender illustrated poem. our cultural failure at making emotional intelligence an educable thing, de botton argues, stems from two flawed baseline assumptions of our education system itself — its focus on what people are taught over how they are taught, and its tendency to mistake information for wisdom. (adrienne rich shone a sidewise gleam on these flaws and their remedy in her superb 1977 convocation address about why an education is something you claim, not something you get.) de botton envisions the emotionally enlightened alternative: an emotional education may require us to adopt two different starting points. for a start, how we are taught may matter inordinately, because we have ingrained tendencies to shut our ears to all the major truths about our deeper selves. our settled impulse is to blame anyone who lays our blind spots and insufficiencies bare, unless our defenses have first been adroitly and seductively appeased. in the face of critically important insights, we get distracted, proud, or fidgety. we may prefer to do almost anything other than take in information that could save us. moreover, we forget almost everything. our memories are sieves, not robust buckets. what seemed a convincing call to action at 8 a.m. will be nothing more than a dim recollection by midday and an indecipherable contrail in our cloudy minds by evening. our enthusiasms and resolutions can be counted upon to fade like the stars at dawn. nothing much sticks. it was the philosophers of ancient greece who first identified these problems and described the structural deficiencies of our minds with a special term. they proposed that we suffer from akrasia, commonly translated as “weakness of will,” a habit of not listening to what we accept should be heard and a failure to act upon what we know is right. it is because of akrasia that crucial information is frequently lodged in our minds without being active in them, and it is because of akrasia that we often both understand what we should do and resolutely omit to do it. how to overcome akrasia and live with life-enlarging emotional intelligence — by absorbing the beauty and wisdom encoded in literature and art, by harnessing the power of ritual, by undertaking the difficult, immensely rewarding and redemptive work of self-knowledge — is what de botton offers in the remainder of the thoroughly helpful the school of life: an emotional education. complement this small prefatory excerpt with philosopher martha nussbaum on the intelligence of emotions, then revisit de botton on what makes a good communicator, the psychological paradox of sulking, and his lovely letter to children about why we read. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published november 25, 2019 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2019/11/25/the-school-of-life-book/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under alain de bottonbooksculturephilosophypsychology view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.