barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up answers alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest savannah lyons writer shares share tweet pin welcome to the barkpost guide to dog breeds where we belly flop straight into the depths of dog breed origin, evolution, and purpose. follow along each week as we publish new guides that highlight the strangest, most interesting, and most surprising stuff about these creatures who have been our best buds the last 30,000 years. table of contents intro / overview also known as… origins size weight range personality intelligence & trainability best training techniques for alaskan klee kai ideal environment good for families and kids? average lifespan health energy friendly with…(dogs? strangers? cats/other pets?) coat & grooming toys alaskan klee kais would like best recommended diet or supplements recommended products notable rescues to find the alaskan klee kai of your dreams notable instagram alaskan klee kais intro / overview (all dogs are individuals, which means any single dog from any breed can be any number of ways, both good and not so good. keep that in mind as we discuss breed generalities!) the alaskan klee kai is little, but mighty. this breed has all of the energy, intelligence, and traits of the original huskies – just in a smaller size! there’s a lot to learn about this compact dog. the alaskan klee kai pups are more than miniatures of the popular working and racing dogs from the north, they were made to be great companions to loving owners. get to know all about your new best friend! also known as… klee kai (which means “small dog” in an eskimo dialect). pocket husky. miniature husky. “that’s littlest direwolf you’ll i’ve ever seen!” origins the alaskan klee kai was bred specifically to be a family pet. the creation of this special dog was developed by linda spurlin in alaska. much like their northern ancestors, the klee kai are often called the alaskan husky – but they’re much more. the klee kai is a mix of siberian and alaskan huskies, and also the schipperke and american eskimo dog to shrink the size to a more miniature height without the worry of dwarfism. in 1988 linda spurlin and her family made the alaskan klee kai available to others. mrs. spurlin originally called her new breed the klee kai, but to make sure everyone knew where the cute pups originated from, changed the name of the breed to the alaskan klee kai in 1995. size although all versions of these pups are small, the alaskan klee kai still comes in different sizes. toy variety: up to 13 inches. miniature variety: between 13 inches and 15 inches. standard variety: between 15 and 17 inches. weight range adult males can be anywhere between 12 and 20 lbs. the range for the adult females is 10 to 18 lbs. personality the alaskan klee kai has a sharp mind, and they’re pretty high on the active scale. although they wouldn’t be labeled as a hyper breed, these pups do tend to be on the go and loves to move. great companion, these dogs also make good watch dogs (they’re very vocal) and are easy to train. bordering the line of neediness, alaskan klee kais demand a lot of attention and time from their owners. they want to stay at your side and would love to cuddle with you every chance they get. when it comes to strangers, klee kais are typically suspicious of new people. their behavior can come across as reserved. these dogs are mostly comfortable with their handlers and family members – which makes sense because they were bred for companionship! this breed isn’t really big on barking, but klee kais will “talk back” to you and howl. when they’re happy you may get a “woo-woo” and when they’re upset they’ll make sure you know it. intelligence & trainability these furry pups are very smart, eager to please their owners, and are very food motivated. all of these elements make them extremely easy to train and pick up on tricks. they’ll do well with basic commands, to start off, and in obedience training. armed with praise and high value treats, you’ll easily get your small dog to obey and preform all of the tricks you want. best training techniques for alaskan klee kai training a dog can require a lot of time, attention, and patience. you’re forming a bond and setting the tone for the relationship between you and your fur friend. an alaskan klee kai is willing to learn new things and put in the work. this breed has grace and top agility skills. whether you’re training your pup to asimilate to your daily routine or training them for a competition, klee kai’s are much easier to train than many other breeds. as long as you’re willing to commit the time and effort to keep them learning and stimulate their minds, the klee kai dogs will continue to produce the desired results! here are a few tips on how to start training your alaskan klee kai: be the pack leader: you’re in control, so make sure your klee kai knows it. they’ll be looking to you for cues, commands, and will respect your dominance as long as you’re consistent. be consistent.: as “alpha”, you’re expected to set boundaries for your pup. whether it’s behavioral rules or house rules, hold the line with your dog. if your klee kai thinks the rules can be broken, they’ll regress in training and start behaving unfavorably. start early. once you bring your fur ball home start incorporating them into your daily routine and show them how you expect them to behave in their new setting. socialize early. the klee kai puppies should be socialized at an early age. they’re naturally suspicious of new people and can be defensive. to steer them away from feeling uncomfortable around strangers, consistent socializing from a young age is highly encouraged. make sure you have rewards handy. once your pup accomplishes a command or exhibits “good dog” behavior, treats and praise will suffice for adequate rewards. who doesn’t love a tasty treat and positive reinforcement? ideal environment alaskan klee kais are known to be active and need daily exercise. they were made to be a family pet, and are great in family homes. this breed is adaptable to apartments and city living, but may cause problems with close living neighbors due to their emotional crying when upset and their “talking.” owning an alaskan klee kai can be easier if you have a yard big enough for them to enjoy or live near a park. daily exercise is required, otherwise these dogs can become bored from the lack of stimulation and start behaving unfavorably. these small dogs are also known for their natural hunting skills. as a prey-driven breed, these dogs need to have a yard with a sturdy fence. they’re also master escape artists and sometimes like to slip away for an adventure. a strong fence is a good idea. if you don’t have a yard, you’ll need to keep your pup leashed while outside. the pups will try to track down small animals, or chase cats or birds. anything that piques their hunting instincts. good for families and kids? yes, the alaskan klee kai are bred specifically to be great companions. these pups can be great as a family dog. if there are small children in the family, it would be best to teach your children to be careful with your pup and treat them respectfully. alaskan klee kai will not generally allow themselves to be mistreated, even by small humans. adult supervision is always recommended when your dog is playing with kids this small dog “talks,” breezes through agility courses, and is always learning new things. they’re also very affectionate. your dog would be happy to simply sit down and cuddle with you. these fluffy pups are very close to their humans and want to be with them all of the time. one way to get their tails wagging is to give them plenty of your love and attention. if you’re up to doting on your fur friend, this breed may be a great fit for you. average lifespan the average lifespan of the alaskan klee kai is from 12 to 16 years. health compared to many types of dogs, the alaskan klee kai are a rare breed. there isn’t a vast population of them and, as these dogs are carefully bred, we’re learning more and more about their typical health needs and common issues. the small version of the northern breeds are generally healthy. taking after their ancestors, the klee kai have share some of the same health issues as the different huskies that share the same genes. it’s very important to keep a keen eye on your pup’s health conditions to keep them in tip-top shape! these are some of the health issues commonly displayed in the alaskan klee kai breed: thyroid disease juvenile cataracts liver disease cardiac defects patella luxation cryptorchidism (in male klee kai dogs) blood clotting disorder energy these dogs need daily exercise to burn off their energy. this specific breed isn’t hyper, but they are energetic. klee kai dogs require lots of physical stimulation. carving out time to allow them to run and play will keep them fit and happy. daily time set aside to be outdoors will help your pal refrain from destructive behavior and provide bonding time. friendly with…(dogs? strangers? cats/other pets?) alaskan klee kai pups often prefer to be with their owners and family members and can be wary around new people, taking time to warm up to strangers. the alaskan klee kai isn’t known for their great love of other pets, but like any dog, as long as they’re socialized early on and well-trained, it shouldn’t be a problem. coat & grooming the alaskan klee kai has a medium length double coat that comes in various colors. their coat should only be trimmed in medical situations. otherwise, the double coat protects their skin, keeps them warm in winter. unlike most breeds, this dog will clean themselves. it’s a trait of their ancestors of the north that they will try to lick their coats and feet clean. grooming is fairly easy. this breed tends to shed a lot, so be ready to brush out the coat a few times a week to keep matting down to a minimum. the klee kai blows their coat twice a year, seasonally. you’ll easily identify when this is happening, there will be more hair than usual around the home. it would be best to take your pup outside and brush out the coat more frequently than normal during this time. it will help keep the hair from covering all of the surfaces in your home! toys alaskan klee kais would like best these pups are smart, playful and enjoy games. it’s necessary to have durable toys on hand for them to chew. you’ll definitely need something strong enough to last during play time. bark’s super chewer toys will stimulate your pup’s mind working and get them up and moving! these fun and innovative toys will keep your pup happy and stimulated. klee kais are quick and agile pups who love to run and play fetch, fetch toys are perfect to keep on hand. tennis balls will of course do the trick, but you can also play fetch with toys like “andi’s famous plush dumplings.” for a more extensive list of toys alaskan klee kais would love, check out our “what are the best dog toys for huskies?” post. recommended diet or supplements does your klee kai suffer from anxiety or joint pain? if yes, you might want to try cbd or supplements. but as always, consult your veterinarian first. full-spectrum hemp oil bark’s full spectrum hemp oil is made of organically grown whole plants, grown in colorado, and is non-psychoactive. it comes in 100mg, 250mg, and 500mg varieties, and can help with pet anxiety and pain relief. ($17.99-22.99.) glucosamine supplement for hip & joints this joint supplement is veterinarian-formulated, made with all natural ingredients (glucosamine, msm, chondroitin, and hyaluronic acid), and comes in the form of 150 soft chews. basically, it looks and tastes just like delicious treats, and it could really help your bulldog with their hip and joint issues. ($32.99.) recommended products for older klee kais or dogs suffering from arthritis or hip dysplasia (or just any dog that enjoys lying down!), a comfortable, supportive dog bed is probably a good idea. orthopedic ultra plush memory foam bed this dog bed is great for supporting your pup’s tired body. a high quality combination of ergonomic memory foam and gel foam helps ease body aches, joint pain, hip dysplasia and arthritis. this bed offers the best therapeutic support for your hardworking pal. ($27.99-64.99.) notable rescues to find the alaskan klee kai of your dreams alaskan klee kai national rescue kika’s klee kai serenity cove adoptable klee kais on petfinder notable instagram alaskan klee kais get a daily dose of adorable pocket huskies by following these stunning little furry pups on instagram: @greywolf.blackfox! https://www.instagram.com/p/bw90synfsbv/ @baileytheakk! view this post on instagram when you legit think the sky is going to fall. ⛈ #monsoonseason a post shared by bailey the alaskan klee kai (@baileytheakk) on jul 12, 2018 at 3:21pm pdt @barkors_alaskan_klee_kai! view this post on instagram 2019 nj akk meet up. . . . #alaskankleekaiofinstagram #kleekailove #kleekai #alaskankleekai #akk #kleekaination #packlife #pack a post shared by barkor's alaskan klee kai (@barkors_alaskan_klee_kai) on apr 27, 2019 at 2:55pm pdt @thurisia_akk! https://www.instagram.com/p/bu7alech8h5/ @kleekai_remi! https://www.instagram.com/p/bstmu_yg5iw/ @akkindonesia! view this post on instagram leave one wolf alive and the sheep are never safe – #akkindonesia #alaskankleekai #akk #minihusky #minihuskyindonesia #kleekai #dogsofinstaworld #huskylife #huskylove #dogsofinstagram #instadog #dogsoftheday #huskyindonesia #anjing #guguk a post shared by alaskan klee kai indonesia (@akkindonesia) on sep 18, 2017 at 9:15pm pdt ***looking for a gift to blow your klee klai’s mind? spoil them with barkbox! every month barkbox delivers 2 original toys, designed in-house, 2 full bags of all-natural treats, and a chew. sign up here and receive a free extra toy every month. <– this deal is worth up to $120 in value if you sign up for a 12-month subscription! 🙂 featured image via greywolf.blackfox/instagram want more helpful breed guides like this? black and tan coonhound breed information guide jack russell terrier breed information guide great dane breed information guide golden retriever breed information guide pug breed information guide border collie breed information guide beagle breed information guide comments poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up savannah lyons writer labrador retriever breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts cavalier king charles spaniel breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts french bulldog breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go