home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads a life worth living: albert camus on our search for meaning and why happiness is our moral obligation anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton “if those whom we begin to love could know us as we were before meeting them … they could perceive what they have made of us.” by maria popova in this new installment of the brain pickings artist series, i’ve once again teamed up with the wonderfully talented wendy macnaughton, on the heels of our previous collaborations on famous writers’ sleep habits, susan sontag’s diary highlights on love and on art, nellie bly’s packing list, gay talese’s taxonomy of new york cats, and sylvia plath’s influences. i asked macnaughton to illustrate another of my literary heroes’ thoughts on happiness and love, based on my highlights from notebooks 1951–1959 (public library) — the published diaries of french author, philosopher, and nobel laureate albert camus, which also gave us camus on happiness, unhappiness, and our self-imposed prisons. the artwork is available as a print on society6 and, as usual, we’re donating 50% of proceeds to a room of her own, a foundation supporting women writers and artists. enjoy! if those whom we begin to love could know us as we were before meeting them … they could perceive what they have made of us. when love ceases to be tragic it is something else and the individual again throws himself in search of tragedy. betrayal answers betrayal, the mask of love is answered by the disappearance of love. for me, physical love has always been bound to an irresistible feeling of innocence and joy. thus, i cannot love in tears but in exaltation. the loss of love is the loss of all rights, even though one had them all. those who prefer their principles over their happiness, they refuse to be happy outside the conditions they seem to have attached to their happiness. it is not humiliating to be unhappy. physical suffering is sometimes humiliating, but the suffering of being cannot be, it is life. the end of their passion consists of loving uselessly at the moment when it is pointless. at times i feel myself overtaken by an immense tenderness for these people around me who live in the same century. i have not stopped loving that which is sacred in this world. get the print here. for more literature-inspired art benefiting some favorite organizations, dive into the artist series visual archive. for more of macnaughton’s own fantastic work, see her book meanwhile in san francisco and her illustrations for the essential scratch and sniff guide to becoming a wine expert and lost cat: a true story of love, desperation, and gps technology. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published june 16, 2014 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2014/06/16/albert-camus-diary-wendy-macnaughton/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under albert camusartartist seriesculturediarieshappinessillustrationlovephilosophypsychologywendy macnaughton view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.