engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits the surveillance profiteers of covid-19 are here google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks latest in gear ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits 20m ago view the surveillance profiteers of covid-19 are here 2h ago view google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks 1h ago view this week's best deals: sony headphones, surface pro 7 and more 2h ago view image credit: alexa can tell you what to do if you think you have covid-19 you can also schedule cash and blood donations, stream bandsintown concerts and more. christine fisher, @cfisherwrites 6h ago comments 46 shares share tweet share sponsored links brett putman / engadget amazon is joining alphabet's verily and apple's siri in offering a covid-19 screening tool. if you're in the us, you can now ask your alexa devices to assess your risk level for the disease, as well as what to do if you think you have covid-19. alexa will ask you a series of questions and provide centers for disease control (cdc) guidance based on your risk factors and symptoms. the service is also available in japan, where alexa provides japanese ministry of health, labor and welfare guidance. and if you're in australia, brazil, canada, france, india, the uk and the us, you can ask alexa to sing a song for 20 seconds, as a way to time how long you wash your hands. google introduced a similar feature last week. alexa can answer tens of thousands of other questions related to the coronavirus, and amazon is working to bring accurate, timely information from official government and news sources to its devices. you can also make cash donations or schedule blood donations ("alexa, open red cross blood") via the voice assistant, and with the twitch app on fire tv and echo, you can stream live concerts from bandsintown. as the virus and concerns spreads, tech companies are racing to help people find accurate information and ways to support each other. whatsapp now has a world health organization chatbot, and facebook is sharing its messenger developers with government organizations to help them develop similar tools. in this article: alexa, amazon, cdc, coronavirus, covid-19, gear, hand washing, medicine, news, questions, risk, screening, services, symptoms all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments 46 shares share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr