skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download all in one seo pack by michael torbert details reviews support development description the original wordpress seo plugin, downloaded over 50,000,000 times since 2007. use all in one seo pack to optimize your wordpress site for seo. it’s easy and works out of the box for beginners, and has advanced features and an api for developers. upgrade to pro version premium support first created in 2007, see why aioseo is one of the all time most downloaded plugins for wordpress. xml sitemap support – submit your sitemap to google and bing and improve your seo image xml sitemap submitted to google and bing to improve your image seo rss sitemap google amp support (accelerated mobile pages) google analytics support schema.org markup support for seo on custom post types advanced canonical urls redirect attachment pages to parent post automatically notifies search engines like google and bing about changes to your site built-in api so other plugins/themes can access and extend functionality only free plugin to provide seo integration for e-commerce sites, including woocommerce nonce security built into all in one seo pack automatically optimizes your titles for google and other search engines generates meta tags automatically avoids the typical duplicate content found on wordpress blogs for beginners, you don’t even have to look at the options, it works out-of-the-box. just install. for advanced users, you can fine-tune everything to optimize your seo you can override any title and set any meta description and any meta keywords you want. compatibility with many other plugins translated into 57 languages php 7 100% compatible follow me on twitter to keep up with the latest updates michael torbert screenshots xml sitemaps - out of the box support for xml sitemaps for all major search engines, with automatic submission to ensure search engines can easily crawl your site. choose between dynamic or static sitemaps for increased performance. seo modules enable or disable any advanced seo modules as desired. our team is constantly adding new seo modules, so check back often. extensive support read our quickstart beginner's guide, advanced user guide, access our premium support forums with a full-time support staff, and watch our excellent video tutorials custom post types support out of the box support for all custom post types. this is especially handy if you use any forum or e-commerce software, or have had any other custom work done on your site. easily access seo content comprehensive overview of seo title, description, and keywords for the entire post/content type. edit it all from one screen to save time. additional pages for xml sitemap you can easily configure any additional pages to be added to the sitemap in addition to the dynamically generated wordpress pages. this ensures that search engines like google will see all of your website's content. quick-edit quickly edit your wordpress seo data without having to go back and forth between different screens. seo menu all in one offers an extensive array of premium seo features for free. perfect for the novice or advanced user. faq please visit our complete documentation before requesting support for seo from the all in one seo pack support forum general settings xml sitemaps social meta performance reviews trying out alternatives – like it appletona february 26, 2020 trying out alternatives for other popular plugin. so far so good - thanks! wonderful and nice plugin mosabelhag february 19, 2020 great plugin! learned me a lot of seo tasks to improve my site. thanks nice plugin spbo365 february 1, 2020 easy to use. thanks easy to use afb365 january 31, 2020 i use this plugin to some of my sites. really easy and seo friendly the best i have used! wildtoddman january 9, 2020 i have multiple sites and have tried 4 different seo plugins, including yoast which was supposed to be so great! i noticed that the only site that was really getting any traffic was the one with all in one seo installed. i then tested it on another site and the same result! this is my new seo solution and i am currently in the process of changing all of my wordpress sites to use this plugin! after ssl setup all settings and meta tag data removed anowarsadat1 december 31, 2019 after ssl setup all settings and meta tag data removed. please say what is the solution. read all 493 reviews contributors & developers “all in one seo pack” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors semperplugins syed balkhi benjaminprojas “all in one seo pack” has been translated into 53 locales. thank you to the translators for their contributions. translate “all in one seo pack” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog all in one seo pack changelog meta version: 3.3.5 last updated: 2 months ago active installations: 2+ million wordpress version: 4.9 or higher tested up to: 5.3.2 php version: 5.2.4 or higher languages: see all 54 close afrikaans, albanian, arabic, bulgarian, catalan, chinese (china), chinese (taiwan), croatian, czech, dutch, dutch (belgium), emoji, english (australia), english (canada), english (new zealand), english (pirate), english (south africa), english (uk), english (us), finnish, french (belgium), french (canada), french (france), galician, german, greek, hindi, hungarian, indonesian, italian, japanese, korean, latvian, moroccan arabic, norwegian (bokmål), norwegian (nynorsk), occitan, persian, polish, portuguese (brazil), portuguese (portugal), romanian, russian, serbian, slovenian, spanish (chile), spanish (costa rica), spanish (mexico), spanish (spain), spanish (venezuela), tamil, turkish, ukrainian, and vietnamese. translate into your language tags: google search consolemeta descriptionmeta titleseoxml sitemap advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 387 4 stars 33 3 stars 10 2 stars 13 1 star 49 contributors semperplugins syed balkhi benjaminprojas support issues resolved in last two months: 51 out of 53 view support forum about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.