semper plugins login account all in one seo pack pro the #1 most downloaded wordpress plugin (over 65,000,000 downloads) facebook twitter google+ linkedin reddit email all limited time sale – up to 40% off* individual sale 25% off $57 $79 – single site license – one site – annual fee buy now best value business sale 30% off $97 $139 – business license – up to ten sites – image seo module – annual fee buy now agency sale 40% off $419 $699 – agency license – unlimited sites – image seo module – annual fee buy now * sale price applies to the first year only facebook twitter google+ linkedin reddit email all in one seo pack pro features and benefits image seo module (business plan and above) advanced support for woocommerce seo for categories, tags and custom taxonomies social meta for for categories, tags and custom taxonomies support for google tag manager advanced google analytics tracking video seo module greater control over display settings ad free (no banner adverts) access to video screencasts access to premium support forums access to knowledge center seo for everyone unlimited downloads and access to upgrades to all in one seo pack pro for as long as you maintain your subscription priority support from our dedicated support team access to video tutorials on seo and use of all in one seo pack pro connect with google and bing feature manager provides access to a variety of seo modules designed for all types of users generate and submit an xml sitemap to google and bing support for schema.org and google knowledge graph support for google tag manager advanced options for google analytics tracking social media integration easily control how your content looks on facebook, twitter, and other social media networks set images to appear when your post is shared on social media access to debugging tools provided by facebook common questions what is the difference between the free version of all in one seo pack and all in one seo pack pro? all in one seo pack pro includes various features and modules such as advanced woocommerce support, a video seo module (including video xml sitemaps), seo for categories, tags, and custom taxonomies. it is advert free making it ideal for developers or those who want to use it on client sites. all in one seo pack pro includes a support and updates subscription which gives you access to priority support from our dedicated support team as well as access to our library of video tutorials. you can find the full list of features in the features and benefits section above. where do i find my download link and license key? your unique download link and license key can be found on the receipt page when you make your purchase and in the purchase receipt email which you will receive upon completing your purchase. if you did not receive your receipt email please check your spam folder before contacting us and ensure you mark any email from us as not spam. what is your policy on refunds? if you are not completely satisfied with all in one seo pack pro after 14 days, you can request a refund and we will give you 100% of your money back – no questions asked. will my data be lost if i convert from the free version to the pro version? no. all of your seo data and settings will be preserved when you switch from the free version to all in one seo pack pro. is all in one seo pack pro compliant with gdpr? yes. our plugin does not collect or store personal information and is therefore 100% gdpr compliant. testimonials your plugin rocks. andrew nacin all in one seo pack has been a vital tool in managing the seo strategy for our websites, it has saved us countless hours and headaches in performing the necessary seo functions of our sites. dan milward facebook twitter google+ linkedin reddit email home blog support documentation faqs terms privacy affiliates dedicated to building top quality resources for web developers and web designers. ©2020 semper plugins, llc. all rights reserved.