skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides all over the place adventures in travel, true love, and petty theft by geraldine deruiter available now release date: may 2, 2017 most travel memoirs involve a button-nosed protagonist nursing a broken heart who, rather than tearfully watching the princess bride while eating an entire 5-gallon vat of ice cream directly out of the container (like a normal person), instead decides to travel the world, inevitably falling for some chiseled stranger with bulging pectoral muscles and a disdain for wearing clothing above the waist. this is not that kind of book. geraldine met the love of her life long before this story began, on a bus in seattle surrounded by drunk college kids. she gets lost constantly, wherever she goes. and her nose would never, ever be considered “button-like.” hilarious, irreverent and heartfelt, all over the place chronicles the five-year period that kicked off when geraldine got laid off from a job she loved and took off to travel the world. those years taught her a great number of things, though the ability to read a map was not one of them. she has only a vague idea of where russia is, but she understands her russian father now better than ever before. she learned that at least half of what she thought was her mother’s functional insanity was actually an equally incurable condition called “being italian.” she learned about unemployment and brain tumors and lost luggage and lost opportunities and just getting lost, in countless terminals and cabs and hotel lobbies across the globe. and she learned what it’s like to travel the world with someone you already know and love. how that person can help you make sense of things, and can, by some sort of alchemy, make foreign cities and far-off places feel like home. in all over the place, geraldine imparts the insight she gained while being far from home-wry, surprising, but always sincere, advice about marriage, family, health, and happiness that come from getting lost and finding the unexpected. read a deleted chapter quotes from esteemed authors “geraldine deruiter’s all over the place is a travel memoir of sorts, but i’d enjoy reading pretty much any topic she wanted to cover. her voice is funny, witty and warm, and her stories sparkle. this book is a travel companion you’ll be happy you brought along.” -lauren graham, star of gilmore girls and new york times bestselling author of talking as fast as i can “deruiter’s funny, honest portrayal of life’s small and large adventures will convince any hesitant would-be traveler that you don’t need bravery or even an above average sense of direction to venture out into the world—all you need is a plane ticket and a sense of humor (and maybe a plunger).” -rachel friedman, author of the good girl's guide to getting lost “i laughed so hard during the book’s ‘disclaimer’ that i woke up my baby, and then actively ignored him to continue reading. geraldine is at turns laugh-out-loud hilarious and grab-me-some-tissues tender, and all i could think of after reading this was ‘can we take a trip together please?” -nora mcinerny purmort, author of it's okay to laugh (crying is cool too) “all over the place is a hilarious, authentic travel guide through the most mysterious and wonderful territory of all: the human heart.” -martha brockenbrough, author of the award-winning novel the game of love and death more + quotes from readers “deruiter’s memoir is a light-hearted look at travel and learning to live life to the fullest each day, even if you’re not quite sure where you are going.” -publisher's weekly “… had me laughing so hard at times that i had tears streaming down my face” entire review. -goodreads review (5 stars) “… heartwarming and hilarious … one of the best travel books i’ve read in a long time.” entire review. -goodreads review (5 stars) “side splittingly funny and deep and meaningful all at the same time.” entire review. -goodreads review (5 stars) “i loved every word.” entire review. --goodreads review (5 stars) more + buy it now! available in hardback, kindle, and audio from these booksellers: read a deleted chapter buy it now! available in hardback, kindle, and audio from these booksellers: read a deleted chapter facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status