english 日本語 deutsch english español português français contact sales log in get hubspot free home software software free hubspot crm all your contacts and companies, 100% free. marketing hub all-in-one marketing software, starting at $0/month. sales hub all-in-one sales software, starting at $0/month. service hub all-in-one customer service software, starting at $0/month. app marketplace find hubspot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business. pricing resources resources blog read marketing, sales, agency, and customer success blog content. customer stories hear from the businesses that use hubspot to grow better every day. developers create apps and custom integrations for businesses using hubspot. ebooks, guides & more get access to hubspot’s most popular marketing resources. onboarding & services find training and consulting services to help you thrive with hubspot. research & reports get up-to-date research and data on hot business trends. free courses & certifications take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts. what is inbound? get a primer on how inbound helps your business grow better. customer support get help if you have questions about using hubspot software. partners partners hire a partner find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow. partner with us explore our sales, agency, and app partnership programs. about about company about us contact us management team board of directors careers news hubspot news press resources speakers investors investor relations get hubspot free log in blog customer retention topic learning path customer retention learn how to encourage your customers to stick around with the resources below. free customer service metrics calculator explore more posts 23 posts advanced intermediate beginner view posts by level: customer retention: beginner 14 posts just getting your feet wet? these articles will walk you through customer retention fundamentals and best practices. how to calculate customer lifetime value service | 5 min read 5 reasons for customer churn your company needs to address service | 6 min read 15 examples of customer retention strategies that work service | 17 min read 6 customer retention systems (& why crm should be one of them) service | 7 min read why (& how) you should actually listen to your customers service | 5 min read 10 customer retention metrics & how to measure them service | 16 min read 10 business email phrases to stop (& start) using with clients service | 8 min read 15 customer service email templates to welcome, support, renew, refund, & retain customers service | 18 min read 6 ways to boost your customer retention rate service | 9 min read what is customer churn? [definition] service | 2 min read how to prevent buyer's remorse service | 4 min read how to prevent customer churn service | 5 min read the ultimate guide to customer retention service | 10 min read what is churn rate? [formula] service | 4 min read load more posts featured resource 17 templates to help you put the customer first resources to help you engage and delight your customers download now customer retention: intermediate 5 posts if you're ready to delve more deeply into customer retention, check out the links below. how to let customers know about a price increase (without making them mad) service | 6 min read 7 best practices for managing client relationships effectively service | 7 min read 10 ways to improve customer loyalty and retention service | 7 min read how customer success teams can use voice of the customer to improve retention service | 6 min read how to reduce customer churn: 7 helpful tips to try service | 9 min read load more posts customer retention: advanced 4 posts customer retention experts: dive into these posts. 12 voice of the customer methodologies to generate a goldmine of customer feedback service | 15 min read how to implement proactive customer service (& why you should) service | 11 min read how to build a strong voice of the customer program [infographic] service | 1 min read use this tried-and-true strategy to create an army of customer advocates service | 4 min read load more posts explore more topics ready to brush up on something new? we've got more to read right this way. customer experience subscribe to our blog stay up to date with the latest marketing, sales, and service tips and news. i want the latest in... marketing sales service website email address we're committed to your privacy. hubspot uses the information you provide to us to contact you about our relevant content, products, and services. you may unsubscribe from these communications at any time. for more information, check out our privacy policy. thank you! you have been subscribed. or slack increase your traffic ad software blog software seo software social media software content management system connect with leads find new prospects email tracking sales email templates click to call your leads email marketing close and manage leads document tracking tool meeting schedule tool sales automation tool lead management tool pipeline management tool support and tools hubspot partners join a local user group piesync integrations free tools & generators get a free website report invoice template generator email signature generator marketing plan template generator blog ideas generator make my persona business templates hubspot templates contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium english deutsch 日本語 español português français copyright © 2020 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy