search sorry, no results matched your search terms. did you mean? something went wrong on our end. please try again later. try searching for build an audience automation types email templates facebook pricing plans try searching for welcome automation import contacts facebook email templates contact support try searching for build an audience automation types email templates facebook pricing plans skip to main content why mailchimp? marketing platform overview all the tools you need to market smarter and grow faster. audience marketing crm audience dashboard tags segmentation behavioral targeting lookalike audiences brand content studio templates domains websites beta campaigns email social media landing pages digital ads postcards automations insights reports & analytics smart recommendations integrations pricing resources overview mailchimp 101 everything you need to get started marketing tips learn how to master marketing guides & tutorials get step-by-step help with mailchimp mailchimp presents entertainment made for entrepreneurs log in sign up free log in sign up free audience dashboard campaigns reports account everything you need, in one place from email to postcards, websites to automations, our all-in-one marketing platform is perfect for powering growing businesses like yours. pick a plan mailchimp presents: sxsw short films with sxsw cancelled, short filmmakers lost a chance for visibility. we hope to change that. now’s your chance to #supporttheshorts. watch now facing covid-19 together while we don’t have all the answers, we’ve put together a collection of timely resources to help you through the days ahead. learn more see how mailchimp connects you with customers and helps you stand out—even when you're just starting out. see how mailchimp connects you with the tools you need to grow your business. automate your marketing, reach your people our pre-built, customizable email automations make it easy to connect with the right person at the right moment—without doing the work every time. delight your customers and keep your brand top of mind with welcome automations, happy birthday messages, and order notifications. learn more automate your marketing, reach your people our pre-built, customizable email automations make it easy to connect with the right person at the right moment—without doing the work every time. delight your customers and keep your brand top of mind with welcome automations, happy birthday messages, and order notifications. start automating award‑winning support mailchimp’s support team took home 4 golds at the 2020 stevie awards. find out how our exemplary customer service can benefit your business. learn more award‑winning support mailchimp’s support team took home 4 golds at the 2020 stevie awards. find out how our exemplary customer service can benefit your business. learn more made for your business e‑commerce and retail whether you’re an e‑commerce, brick‑and‑mortar, or omnichannel retailer, mailchimp’s all‑in‑one marketing platform will help you drive traffic, increase conversion, and grow sales. learn more mobile and web apps reach new customers, send personalized behavior‑based campaigns, and increase engagement with your app. learn more startups find product‑market fit, learn from user feedback, and launch your first marketing campaigns. learn more “mailchimp lets us really dig deep when it comes to tag-based segmentation, testing new email templates, and reaching our audience in strategic ways.” adhoc presents learn more “mailchimp lets us really dig deep when it comes to tag-based segmentation, testing new email templates, and reaching our audience in strategic ways.” adhoc presents learn more explore feature updates, success stories, and marketing tips business tips how to make your brand stand out mailchimp's in-house expert explains what you need to set your small business apart. customer spotlight a freelance success story atlanta-based web developer kelly vaughn quit her government job to run her own digital freelance business. here's how she did it. business tips solopreneur marketing: how to grow your small business 5 tips to help your small business take steps to get ahead. explore feature updates, success stories, and marketing tips business tips how to make your brand stand out mailchimp's in-house expert explains what you need to set your small business apart. customer spotlight a freelance success story atlanta-based web developer kelly vaughn quit her government job to run her own digital freelance business. here's how she did it. business tips solopreneur marketing: how to grow your small business 5 tips to help your small business take steps to get ahead. you’ll be in good company it’s easy to get started and it's free. two things everyone loves. pick a plan it’s easy to get started and it's free. two things everyone loves. pick a plan covid-19 meeting the needs of this moment will require patience, compassion, and creativity—and remembering that we’re all in this together. learn more company our story careers contact annual report newsroom mailchimp presents product email mobile app help developers status security what's new support community partner program experts directory integrations directory agencies events marketing glossary ©2001-2020 all rights reserved. mailchimp® is a registered trademark of the rocket science group. apple and the apple logo are trademarks of apple inc., registered in the u.s. and other countries. mac app store is a service mark of apple inc. google play and the google play logo are trademarks of google inc. privacy & terms