newsletter why aloe vera deserves a place in your skin care routine medically reviewed by debra sullivan, phd, msn, rn, cne, coi — written by sarah ellis on march 12, 2020 new benefits fresh vs. bottled aloe vera how to apply created for greatist by the experts at healthline. read more aloe vera is kind of the superman of the botanical world. it’s full of vitamins, minerals, and anti-inflammatory compounds that provide healing relief from irritation — the only thing it can’t do is shoot lasers from its eyes. but is it safe for your face? the short answer: absotutely (to quote leslie knope). but you need to use it the right way. here’s why aloe vera deserves a prominent spot in your medicine cabinet. share on pinterest why it’s great for skin it can help combat acne. studies have shown that people with mild to moderate acne can benefit from using oral aloe vera products to treat their irritated skin. just be sure to talk with your doctor before using it — especially if you’re combining it with prescription products like isotretinoin, which is used to treat cystic acne. it can help fade dark spots and acne scars. even if your acne isn’t a problem at the moment, those pesky scars can stick around for years. aloe vera gel helps stimulate the production of collagen in the skin, which reduces the appearance of scarring. it soothes sunburns. aloe vera gel is known for its cooling, soothing properties, and it feels amazing on your skin when you’re suffering from a sunburn. it’s not clear whether it actually helps the sunburn heal faster (some studies say it doesn’t) but it does lessen the discomfort and help with redness and peeling. it moisturizes dry skin. the plant contains a high number of mucopolysaccharides (try saying that five times fast), a type of molecule chain with hydrating properties that’s a common ingredient in many moisturizers. it can treat cold sores. the antiviral effects of aloe vera makes it a useful topical treatment to help with cold sores. be careful, though — you can still pass on oral herpes to others if you have an active breakout (and aloe vera sadly can’t make it less contagious). it provides relief from psoriasis and eczema. psoriasis and eczema can feel like an awful combination of a burn and a super itchy rash. thankfully, aloe vera has been shown to both moisturize and soothe these trouble spots on your skin. it reduces puffiness and dark circles. remember the collagen-producing effects of aloe vera? those don’t just help with acne scars. they also reduce overall inflammation in the face and help with the production of new skin — which makes you look radiant and glowy af. it’s a natural exfoliant. the salicylic acid in the plant helps get rid of dead skin cells and bad bacteria on your face. it’s lightly exfoliating and won’t rub your skin raw. it may slow signs of aging. science is still inconclusive on this one, but some studies of aloe vera have shown promising effects in its ability to increase skin elasticity over time. no wonder it’s a popular ingredient in many anti-wrinkle creams. it’s good for most people with sensitive skin. in its pure form, aloe vera gel is 100 percent natural, so it’s a great go-to product for many people who struggle with using chemicals on their skin. just be sure to test a small amount on your wrist or inner part of your arm before putting it on your face, to make sure you aren’t allergic to the plant itself. fresh vs. bottled aloe vera: is there a difference? before you run out to purchase and grow your own aloe plant, know that you have multiple options here. store-bought varieties can be as effective as gel harvested from an aloe plant. many drugstore and higher-end skin care products contain aloe vera gel in their ingredient list, but usually not a lot of it. look for products that specifically list aloe vera as a primary ingredient (aka one the first few listed). bottled aloe can be purchased at the drugstore, but it sometimes contains additives to make it last longer at room temperature. the fda does not currently regulate the safety of aloe vera products, and according to the national center for complementary and integrative health, not enough is known about the plant’s effects to definitively deem it useful for skin treatments. the nccih does say the plant is likely safe when used topically. to diy your skin care product and get straight to the source, you can grow your own aloe at home. the gel comes from inside of the plant leaf, so cut it open with a clean knife and separate the gel from the prickly stalk. store the gel in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1 week, and use it on your skin as needed. psa: do not eat the plant! not much is known about the potential effects of aloe vera when ingested, and the info out there doesn’t look good. in 2015, aloe vera was added to california’s proposition 65 legislation, which calls out ingredients that may cause cancer if consumed. in other words, trust the experts and just don’t eat it. it’s better to stay safe. how to use aloe vera for maximum results if you’ve never used aloe vera before, caution is key. start by applying a small amount of the plant to your skin, somewhere other than your face (like your arm or thigh). wait at least 24 hours to test for an allergic reaction. if you don’t notice anything amiss, you can begin using it in larger quantities. there are lots of home recipes out there for all-natural aloe vera face masks. depending on your specific skin conditions, you may want to tailor these ingredients to whatever works best for your face. to avoid clogging your pores, don’t leave the gel on for hours (especially when you’re first experimenting with it). start by using it for only 5 or 10 minutes at a time, and work up from there. if you have a specific skin problem you’re looking to treat, it’s best to rely on the advice of your dermatologist or primary care doctor before you stock up on a bunch of new products. ask them about aloe vera gel if you’re curious. sadly, there’s not enough scientific evidence to formally designate it as a cure for most conditions — but that hasn’t stopped it from becoming a cult favorite product that tons of people swear by. do your research (and proceed with healthy caution) as you try it out for yourself. tl;dr many people tout the benefits of using aloe vera on your face. the plant gel has been shown to help with acne, sunburns, dark spots, dry skin, cold sores, irritation, and inflammation. it may also reduce the appearance of wrinkles over time. you can buy skin care products containing aloe vera, bottled aloe, or grow your own aloe plant and harvest the gel to use on your skin. to use fresh aloe on your skin as a face mask, mix the gel with other natural ingredients like coconut oil, honey, and lemon. leave it on for 10 to 15 minutes and rinse. don’t ingest aloe vera. not enough is known about whether it is safe for consumption. talk with your doctor if you have specific skin problems you’re looking to treat. aloe vera is safe and generally good for sensitive skin, but some people are allergic to the plant itself. test a small amount on your arm or thigh before using it on your face. medically reviewed by debra sullivan, phd, msn, rn, cne, coi — written by sarah ellis on march 12, 2020 new must reads 5 things to consider before trying your friend’s skin care we decoded the best skin care ingredients, from a to z the simplest skin care routine on the planet — for people who just can’t one pump of coffee in my serum, please skin gritting is the best way to deep-clean your pores read this next 5 things to consider before trying your friend’s skin care share tips, share reviews, but don’t share your skin care. here’s five rules to consider before swapping products or asking if you can sample their…read more we decoded the best skin care ingredients, from a to z this a to z skin care guide has all the best science-backed buzzwords in beauty.read more the simplest skin care routine on the planet — for people who just can’t not sure where to begin with a skin care routine? join the crowd. the sea of products with big promises and unpronounceable ingredients can make it…read more one pump of coffee in my serum, please coffee can brighten us up in more ways than one.read more skin gritting is the best way to deep-clean your pores “skin gritting” is a specific method of blackhead removal, popularized by the adventurous souls of reddit’s skincareaddiction community.read more about contact privacy careers archive advertise with us terms newsletter © 2019 greatist a red ventures company. our content does not constitute a medical consultation. see a certified medical professional for diagnosis.