call us today: 0113 829 3465 home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact alternatives to equity release equity release schemes are legitimate and beneficial ways for people to borrow money. that said, however, they are not for everyone, which means it is important that homeowners research the pros and cons of equity release, alongside the alternatives available. consider downsizing your home if your children have grown older and you have more space in your home, one alternative could be to move to a smaller property to help free up cash. consider downsizing your home if: it requires large amounts of maintenance. it is expensive to maintain. you are a long way from family and friends. your home is starting to feel too large. although downsizing could be a legitimate option for you, there are many fees and taxes that you must consider, including estate agent fees, legal fees, moving costs, and stamp duty. consider budgeting if you are struggling to stay within your means, before considering any type of loan, you should consider applying a new budget to fit your lifestyle. review your outgoings and evaluate where you can make cuts or if you can change electricity, gas, or internet provider to get a better deal. consider letting out a bedroom or spare room homeowners throughout the uk are beginning to enjoy the benefits of letting out a bedroom in their home. with the government’s rent a room scheme, homeowners can earn up to £7,500 per year — tax-free. that said, there are a number of responsibilities that you must fulfil, so ensure to fully research the option before deciding to rent a room in your property. if you want to know more about whether an equity release loan is right for you, or if you’re considering an alternative form of lending or money generation, contact freedom advice today for a free consultation. frequently asked questions how does equity release work? equity release advice do i qualify? things to consider is equity release safe? how much can i release? what is equity release? call us today: 0113 829 3465 freedom advice llp trading as freedom advice is authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, registration no. 775854. freedom advice - independent financial advisers 22 castle grove drive leeds ls6 4bp 0113 829 3465 services mortgage advice buy to let mortgages equity release estate planning insurance investments protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services equity release what is equity release? what you need to consider regarding equity release is equity release safe? do i qualify for equity release? alternatives to equity release how much equity can be released from my home? how does equity release work? copyright 2019 freedom advice ltd. all rights reserved. the guidance and or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted to customers in the uk.