squarespace logo account dashboard log out products create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain templates resources squarespace blog help guides webinars forum log in log out get started squarespace logo products templates resources log in account dashboard log out get started create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain squarespace blog → stories and solutions for the modern entrepreneur help guides → in-depth guides about the platform, our services, and how to get started webinars → free, online sessions where you’ll learn the basics and refine your squarespace skills forum → squarespace forum is an online community for squarespace users and professionals to discuss best practices and seek advice design studio altrock industrial designer robin grasby uses squarespace to share his contemporary take on terrazzo with the world. altrock create custom terrazzo furniture from their east london studio. they use squarespace to take orders, display projects, and share their process. altrocksurfaces.com →→ "what really makes something real is the brand. and at the start of it, the website is everything. the website is the brand. how altrock uses squarespace 01. award-winning designs start with one of our beautiful templates, then customize it by changing the color palette or adding a feature like photo galleries. 02. contact page collect customer information by adding a form to your site, and show visitors where they can find you by embedding google maps. 03. analytics make better decisions for your brand and business by understanding your site’s performance. monitor key metrics and insights with an easy-to-use dashboard. ← → 01 / 01. award-winning designs start with one of our beautiful templates, then customize it by changing the color palette or adding a feature like photo galleries. 02. contact page collect customer information by adding a form to your site, and show visitors where they can find you by embedding google maps. 03. analytics make better decisions for your brand and business by understanding your site’s performance. monitor key metrics and insights with an easy-to-use dashboard. q&a with robin grasby, founder of altrock can you explain for us what terrazzo is, and what makes altrock’s approach so unique? terrazzo is material created using a technique that’s actually thousands of years old with some of the earliest examples found around the middle east. it’s basically an old method for reusing marble and stone, where scraps and offcuts would be crushed up, mixed with concrete, and then used to make decorative concrete floors in villas. it was always a method of recycling marble materials, which is something we've tried to keep with. we source the chunks of broken marble as offcuts from the industry or quarries. to make our product, we’ve updated the recipe—we use a resin base instead of cement, which is non-porous and a lot stronger, which means we can make really rich, beautiful colors for the backgrounds for any kind of surface. what was the moment you knew altrock had gone from just an idea, to a real business? altrock was just part of one of the many experiments i was doing with a friend of mine who is an interior stylist using a bit stone, playing about. we made some samples and put some pictures up online, got some quite good feedback from a lot of people and decided maybe there was something in it. so, yeah, here we are. but i guess what really makes something real is the brand. and at the start of it, the website is everything. the website is the brand. squarespace was a great platform for telling the story that i wanted to tell, and giving me a place to use the imagery of what we were going to make. "finding a platform like squarespace that allows you to produce something very professional looking is really important. ← → 01 02 / what role does your squarespace play in your business? basically every client we've got has come through the contact form on our website. whether it's the website they found or they've been linked by some other means, they've had a chance to read all about our process and the way we make our product before they get in touch. feedback i’ve had from customers is that people love to see the way things are made. it's really intrinsic to decisions they make about what to spend their money on. they really like to see where it's come from, so with the green aspect of what we do—finding recycled materials—it's important that we've got that space on the website where people can read about it. watch our commercial featuring altrock altrock shares their custom terrazzo with the world using squarespace. share your passion with a beautiful website. get started →→ squarespace logo squarespace logo ↓ ↓ products ↓ website templates websites domains online stores point of sale extensions marketing tools email marketing scheduling stories professional email logo maker premium plan pricing feature list customers ↓ featured small businesses photographers bloggers artists restaurants musicians weddings students company ↓ about careers our brand press & media newsroom terms of service privacy policy contact us timeline imprint community ↓ help & support hire an expert forum webinars developer platform circle follow ↓ newsroom squarespace blog creative blog engineering blog service status instagram youtube linkedin facebook twitter