got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... amazon delivery driver caught on camera spitting on package! home › viral: news › amazon delivery driver caught on camera spitting on package! what in the serious eff?!? even under normal circumstances this would be horribly disgusting, but in the middle of a pandemic? it may even be criminal! a los angeles resident was grossed out on thursday evening to find a big spot of some kind of icky liquid on their amazon package — and absolutely horrified when checking his security camera footage to figure out what happened! related: woman accused of purposely coughing on groceries in ‘twisted prank’ in the ring cam video obtained by tmz, which the man originally posted to instagram, you can clearly see the delivery driver set the package down, then spit on his hand and smear the spit on the box. ew ew ew ew a thousand times ewwwwww! the amazon customer took to ig story to share what happened next; he says he promptly got on a conference call with customer service and his neighbor in the duplex — whose package was sitting right next to his. (he notes they also have a 2-year-old daughter.) during the 20-plus minute call, he says the customer service rep asked him to email the video, saying she watched it while still on the line and “verbally gasped” when she saw what the driver did. he also says the rep told him she was “shocked he is an older man and not a young person.” we guess amazon hires a specific type for their drivers? hmm. the rep confirmed the driver doesn’t work for the company itself but a third party delivery service, and that he’d been reported. but apparently he wasn’t fired immediately because he was still working the next day — and might even return to the house! wtf?! we guess nobody is working for the weekend, because the aghast customer was told he would get another call on monday for more info. tmz reached out to amazon, and a spokesperson told them: “this is clearly not representative of drivers who deliver for amazon and the care they take for customers around the world every day. we are aggressively investigating to understand what may have occurred in this situation. if it truly was a malicious act by the driver, we will be sure he is held accountable, up through and including law enforcement action.” law enforcement action? yes, if it turns out this guy was intentionally spreading his germs while knowingly having covid-19, that could be considered a crime, maybe even an act of terrorism! we can’t help but think of the fbi warning we reported earlier this week about white supremacist groups discussing plans to try to weaponize the virus by spreading their bodily fluids in areas with high minority populations. could that be what this is?? or just a disgusting weirdo?? [image via amazon] related posts hoda kotb breaks down in tears during today segment about coronavirus’ toll on new orleans soothing animal crossing: new horizons nail art is what the world needs right now! evangeline lilly finally apologizes for ‘arrogant’ coronavirus message viral ‘bbc dad’ returns to explain the struggles of working from home with his kids during quarantine! click click click next article next article mar 27, 2020 12:36pm pdt share this categories busted! coronavirus icky icky poo legal matters viral: news view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy