skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about amazon discount tool – 80%+ savings on thousands of hidden products! share tweet pin whenever i want to buy something, the first place i turn to is amazon. they literally have everything i need at a good price too. what’s more, if you’re prepared to dig a little deeper into the amazon site, there are thousands of products with some major discounts added! with that in mind, use our amazon discount tool* to hunt out those major savings. under the discount tool you’ll also find our top tips for getting the best bang for you buck when shopping at amazon uk. happy savings! *by using our amazon discount tool we may get paid a small commission. this in no way affects the price you pay and just helps with the upkeep of our website. thank you. how does the tool work? by using the powerful search functions on amazon we are able to present you the items with the biggest discounts. just select the category you want to search in, discount level, and any keyword; hit search and hey presto! big savings will appear before your very eyes. is it really the cheapest price? like everything in life, it’s always best to double check you can’t get a better offer elsewhere. that said, i’ve already found some excellent bargains including huge savings on washing powder and fabric conditioner. should i get amazon prime? amazon prime offers some excellent benefits such as free one day delivery, amazon instant video, prime music and more. the current cost of amazon prime is £79 but you can currently get a 30 day free trial here. not sure about amazon prime? get the full lowdown with our detailed amazon prime review. subscribe & save. what’s all that about? if you’re going to be buying items from amazon regularly then you’ll save money if you subscribe and save. it’s a subscription service available for thousands of products. you simply choose what you want and how often you want it delivered then the price starts dropping. you get 5% off your first order and future purchases and if you order more items, you’ll unlock higher discounts. if you know that you need a tube of toothpaste monthly, 12 loo rolls a month and how many dogs treats you go through then it’ll save you a trip to the shops, remembering having to order it from amazon and will mean you continue to get money off. contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about