site beginner learn how to build websites make a website start a blog bluehost review about blog contact amazon affiliate disclaimer some links on sitebeginner.com will redirect you to amazon. amazon is one of the biggest reliable online shops. sitebeginner.com is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. we or our advertising partners may use cookies to monitor clicks or for informational basis only. prices may have changed and we have no control over it. we may earn money from referring you to amazon. clicking any of the links on this website does not increase the cost or affect the price for any item you purchase from amazon. our main purpose is for informational purpose and not for earning. what information does sitebeginner.com collect? we collect information from you when you subscribe to our newsletter or fill out a form. when registering for the feeds in our site, as appropriate, you may be asked to enter your: name or e-mail address. you may, however, visit our site anonymously. what does sitebeginner.com use your information for? any of the information we collect from you may be used in one of the following ways: to personalize your experience (your information helps us to better respond to your individual needs) to improve our website (we continually strive to improve our website offerings based on the information and feedback we receive from you) how does sitebeginner.com protect your information? there’s a variety of security measures to maintain the safety of your personal information when you enter, submit, or access your personal information. does sitebeginner.com use cookies? no. we do not use cookies. do we disclose any information to outside parties? we do not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer to outside parties your personally identifiable information. this does not include trusted third parties who assist us in operating our website, conducting our business, or servicing you, so long as those parties agree to keep this information confidential. we may also release your information when we believe release is appropriate to comply with the law, enforce our site policies, or protect ours or others rights, property, or safety. however, non-personally identifiable visitor information may be provided to other parties for marketing, advertising, or other uses. third party links occasionally, at our discretion, we may include or offer third party products or services on our website. these third party sites have separate and independent privacy policies. we therefore have no responsibility or liability for the content and activities of these linked sites. nonetheless, we seek to protect the integrity of our site and welcome any feedback about these sites. online privacy policy only this online privacy policy applies only to information collected through our website and not to information collected offline. your consent by using our site, you consent to our privacy policy. changes to our privacy policy if we decide to change our privacy policy, we will post those changes on this page. (visited 263 times, 1 visits today) how to make a website a complete guide for beginners. want to learn how to make a website like this? check out our beginner's course now. it's completely free!get started popular posts how to start a blog using wordpress how to point a domain name to your site an ever growing list of ways to make money online… how to accept credit cards on your website the best domain registrars to use in 2020 what is a parked domain & how does it work? what is a domain name and how do they work? how to pick profitable website ideas what is affiliate marketing? choosing a free html editor to build your website how to start a blog a complete guide for beginners. want to learn how to make a blog? check out our beginner's course now. it's completely free!get started categories apache building a website code domains general make money online reviews ecommerce website builders web hosting website traffic wordpress amazon affiliate disclosure sitebeginner.com is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. find out more here. ftc disclosure i may receive customer referral fees from companies mentioned on this website, this does not affect the price you pay for any products you decide to buy. all data & opinions on this website are based on my experience as a paying customer. best blogging platform best wordpress hosting online business ideas shopify review copyright © 2007-2020 all rights reserved. site beginner · about · create a blog · learn copyright © 2020 · sb2 on genesis framework · wordpress · log in