subscribe to get a free ecookbook with our top 25 recipes. income resources food blogger pro pinch of yum about recipes shop amazing mushroom bowls with kale pesto jump to recipe • print recipe click here to pin this recipe i can honestly say i never thought i’d write the words “amazing mushroom bowls” as a title for a recipe, but here we are. if you get nothing else out of this post, please hear me say this: these are my favorite mushrooms of all time. you don’t like mushrooms? okay, that’s okay. i don’t know if i can change your mind. those opinions run deep. but also… maybe i can. if any recipe can, it might be this one. these mushrooms are smokey, sweet, and salty all at once. when they are marinated and roasted, they turn into these caramelized golden crispy-and-juicy little nibblers, and i swear i could eat an entire 8-ounce package of them. here they are pre-roasting, soaking up all that glorious sauce: so naturally, let’s build some bowls with them, right? roasty mushroom nibblers (can we just call them that now?), caramelized pineapple, peppers, and a dollop of kale pesto over some rice or cauliflower rice or honestly over nothing at all. this combination is fresh and springy and giving me life. if i can throw one other idea your way, it would be this: tempeh. here it is, also marinating in the same sauce, about to be roasted the same way as the mushrooms. if you don’t like mushrooms, this is your backup plan! when i made this in our studio kitchen this week, we all just stood around the fresh-out-the-oven pan and snacked on roasted mushrooms and tempeh. what is life right now, really. these mushrooms are amazing. check out our video for how to make mushroom bowls: smoky mushroom bowls with kale pesto ★★★★★ 5 from 4 reviews author: lindsay prep time: 20 minutes cook time: 30 minutes total time: 50 minutes yield: 4 1x print recipe pin recipe description amazing mushroom bowls with kale pesto! smoky, sweet, salt mushrooms (or tempeh!), caramelized pineapple, peppers, and dollop of kale pesto, all served over rice. so good. scale 1x2x3x ingredients smoky-sweet marinade 1/4 cup olive oil 1/4 cup maple syrup 1/4 cup soy sauce 1 teaspoon smoked paprika 1/2 teaspoon cumin 1/2 teaspoon italian seasoning 1/2 teaspoon onion powder 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder salt and black pepper (to taste) bowls 16 ounces fresh mushrooms, washed and cut into thick-ish slices 2 cups fresh pineapple chunks 2–3 bell peppers rice or cauliflower rice kale pesto, magic green sauce, or any other yummy sauce video instructions whisk or shake the marinate in a jar until combined. place mushrooms in a shallow bowl. cover with enough marinade to get some flavor on each of the mushroom pieces (you might have some marinade left – that’s okay, you can use it later in this recipe, or save for next week’s bowls). preheat oven to 450 degrees. let the mushrooms rest for 20-30 minutes while you prep other ingredients, including your sauce! place peppers, pineapple, and mushrooms with marinade each on their own sheet pans. bake for 20-or-so minutes, rotating pans as needed, until you get some nice browning on everything (peppers will roast a few minutes faster). you can use the broiler to help with the browning as needed. serve in a bowl over rice or cauli rice. top with your sauce (yeah kale pesto)! you can also put all this yumminess in a wrap or on a salad. poof! look at healthy, delicious you. notes tips for roasting: don’t overcrowd the pans because the pineapple, peppers, and mushrooms might start to steam instead of roast / caramelize / brown. i would recommend draining off excess juice from your pineapple if it seems to have a lot of moisture. if your mushrooms look like they have a lot of liquid, that’s okay – keep roasting a bit longer and the sauce will kind of turn into a gooey crust and the mushrooms will get even deeper in color and flavor. yum. alternative to mushrooms: tempeh is also really delicious here. if you use tempeh, let it marinate for at least 2-3 hours if possible because it takes a bit longer to absorb the flavor. you can pan-fry it or roast it in the same way as directed for the mushrooms. category: dinner method: bake cuisine: american keywords: mushroom bowls, mushroom recipe, vegan recipe, vegetarian recipe, kale pesto did you make this recipe? tag @pinchofyum on instagram and hashtag it #pinchofyum recipe card powered by march 18, 2020 a covid-19 coffee date (all about food)deep dish cookie bowls for two about lindsay a little thing about me: i ♡ food. i also love food photography. i wrote an ebook that can help you learn your camera and i also teach food photography workshops in our minneapolis studio. did you make a recipe? tag @pinchofyum on instagram. i wanna see! facebook instagram pinterest twitter leave a comment cancel reply rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ comment name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email. notify me of new posts by email. 14 comments mona i haven’t been on your site for a while (lazy, i know) and i thought i would get up to date to see your beautiful daughter, but she isn’t mentioned in your about section. perhaps you could update your story as i am sure others like myself would love to see your family blessings. just a thought. . . 03/18/20 @ 11:53 am reply eman @ pinch of yum thanks for sharing, mona! lindsay will sometimes share about family things in coffee date posts like here, here, or even over on her personal instagram account if you’d like to check it out. 😊 03/18/20 @ 2:56 pm reply renee looks delicous. what type of mushroom did you use? you didn’t mention it. 03/18/20 @ 5:42 pm reply eman @ pinch of yum just white button mushrooms will work here. 🙂 03/19/20 @ 10:29 am reply holly bancroft these look amazing! i can’t wait to try them. i love your blog. ★★★★★ 03/18/20 @ 11:24 pm reply paige cassandra flamm these look amazing! i totally need to try them asap! paige http://thehappyflammily.com 03/18/20 @ 11:38 pm reply alicia overby would frozen pineapple work in a pinch or does it have too much moisture? 03/19/20 @ 5:08 pm reply eman @ pinch of yum we’d probably suggest thawing out the pineapple first and then cooking it. 03/20/20 @ 3:01 pm reply jenn this was so delicious!! thank you! we needed to end our week with something yummy and nutritious. ❤️ 03/20/20 @ 9:49 pm reply eman @ pinch of yum so glad you enjoyed these bowls, jenn! 03/23/20 @ 3:44 pm reply ashley you’re right, these bowls were amazing! my husband normally scoffs at any meal that doesn’t contain either meat or pasta but he ate every bite of this, said it was delicious, and then was totally shocked to learn it was vegan. ha! ★★★★★ 03/21/20 @ 5:39 pm reply lp i don’t even like mushrooms, but i love pinch of yum so i made this tonight. amazing!! ❤️ ★★★★★ 03/23/20 @ 8:50 pm reply eman @ pinch of yum so glad you enjoyed the mushroom bowls! 03/24/20 @ 9:52 am reply kimberly these mushrooms are so good– i’ve made them twice this week. i absolutely love the sauce! i made a version of this last night and then topped it off with your green tahini sauce (another recipe we love) it was heaven on a plate! ★★★★★ 03/27/20 @ 3:52 pm reply hey! nice to meet you! i'm lindsay: former 4th grade teacher, now full time blogger. my husband bjork and i live in minnesota. favorite things include my camera, lake days, and dark chocolate. learn more. popular posts dessert the best soft chocolate chip cookies quick and easy the best avocado egg salad vegetarian vegan crunchwrap supreme breakfast cinnamon sugar apple cake blogging tips delivered straight to your inbox blogger resources top posts 1 avoiding blog burnout2 blogging as a couple3 building a blog while traveling4 how to start a food blog5 creating an income6 tools bloggers shouldn't live without7 photography tips start, grow, and monetize your food blog. join today. how’s this for awesome? get all of my best recipes sent to you for free! sign up to receive a free ecookbook with my top 25 most popular recipes. pinch of yum about our team sponsored content media mentions contact food & recipes blog shop recipe index sugar free january freezer meals 101 for bloggers income reports blogging resources photography resources tasty food photography sign up for email updates and get a free ecookbook with our top 25 recipes. our other brands pinch of yum copyright © 2020 an elite cafemedia food publisher back to top • privacy policy x pinch of yum a food blog with simple, tasty, and (mostly) healthy recipes. follow on pinterest