engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget amazon echo buds buy now login the buyer's guide find it, buy it and tell us how you really feel. all phones laptops gaming headphones home theater tablets more photography networking storage reviews / headphones amazon echo buds reviews / headphones amazon echo buds from $130+ $130 buy now share share 73 engadget score a dependable product that doesn't really stand out from the competition. 73 a dependable product that doesn't really stand out from the competition. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). engadget review amazon got some things right with its airpod rival. hands-free alexa is great for voice control and works well. but, the sound quality is decent at best, the touch controls are limited and battery life is less than what the competition offers in 2019. still, these are much cheaper than rival options. pros hands-free alexa works well affordable price customization cons battery life limited touch controls mediocre sound quality micro-usb charging reviews 80 average critic score critic reviews 10 80 cnet amazon's true wireless earbuds sound as good as airpods and cost less the echo buds are likable earbuds with always-on alexa and solid bose-powered noise reduction -- just consider waiting until they're on sale before buying them. read full review 80 the verge great sound at the right price amazon has managed to do a lot right on its first time out. and i think the $130 price is going to hit the right buttons for a lot of people when they’re comparing the echo buds against $200 and $250 options from other brands. read full review see all critic reviews 0 average user score user reviews 0 see all reviews specs key specs type earbud channels stereo drivers per ear 2 active noise cancellation yes connections wireless type channels drivers per ear active noise cancellation connections earbud stereo 2 yes wireless write a review tip: log in before writing a review step 1: rate and comment on specific criteria sound quality 0 design and form factor 0 comfort 0 noise isolation 0 durability 0 step 2: write a detailed review tips: make sure to include your initial thoughts on using the product, any observations and potentially any issues you might have run into while using it. step 3: finalize your product rating and submit your review we've calculated your overall product rating based on the average of your criteria ratings above. you can adjust this rating by dragging this slider. overall rating 0 login and submit! 73 engadget score a dependable product that doesn't really stand out from the competition. 73 a dependable product that doesn't really stand out from the competition. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). see all scores scores engadget 73 critic 10 reviews 80 users not yet scored user reviews there are currently no user reviews associated with this product. that's okay though because you can add your own review and we'll feature it here. write a review about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr