the onion the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop american voices americans look for ways to help during coronavirus pandemic you may also like sports kawhi leonard misses second consecutive family game night citing load management 2 hours ago sports tom brady awakens from week-long kombucha bender to discover he’s a tampa bay buccaneer yesterday 9:30am local global pandemic that has killed thousands giving woman just the push she needed to organize tupperware cabinet today 12:41pm more from g/o media read on man just buying one of every cleaning product in case trump announces it’s coronavirus cure read on british royal family orders citizens to leave u.k. until prince charles recovers read on u.n. names finland happiest country for third year in a row read on nation close to getting videoconferencing software to work subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe today 1:30pm • see more: opinion opinionvol 56 issue 12 though shelter-in-place orders are keeping many homebound, americans are finding ways to help those in need by giving blood, donating to food banks, and pledging money to nonprofits that provide financial assistance to people who have lost their jobs. what do you think? “i’m waiting to donate until shit really hits the fan, so i can get the best bang for my buck” chip richardson • key fob collector “let’s leave the helping to the professionals.” meg rubin • assistant personal assistant advertisement “thankfully, i haven’t gotten bored enough yet to take such desperate measures.” craig alston • vein locator share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion kawhi leonard misses second consecutive family game night citing load management u.s. economy grinds to halt as nation realizes money just a symbolic, mutually shared illusion thousands of formerly endangered white rhinos flood city streets mere days after humans quarantined indoors how the 1% are responding to coronavirus share tweet