skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search category: american 3 links i love: shut ’em down, give ’em money 3 links i love: shut ’em down, give ’em money this week’s featured link the case for shutting down u.s. airlines now – skift it should be shut down, but it’s not just the threat of spreading the disease. it’s also the economic carnage of continuing to operate nearly-empty airplanes. i say bring back the cab, divvy up the routes … cf on mar 26, 2020 mar 27, 2020 upon further review: united gets the cranky jackass award for its new schedule change policy upon further review: united gets the cranky jackass award for its new schedule change policy i was going to write today about the details of united’s big schedule change, but i’m pushing that off. instead, i’ve decided that there’s more to write around united’s bad schedule change policy revision that i covered yesterday. originally, i decided that it wasn’t egregious enough to earn the cranky … cf on mar 10, 2020 mar 10, 2020 american reverses course with qatar strategic partnership, should take it further american reverses course with qatar strategic partnership, should take it further american continues to make its way around the globe looking for ways to fill its geographical needs. after gol helped fill in some blank spots in brazil, the improved alaska partnership shored up the west coast. now, american is looking toward africa, india, and southeast asia by renewing ties with … cf on mar 10, 2020 feb 27, 2020 cranky on the web: screens in seatbacks, the impact on delta cranky on the web: screens in seatbacks, the impact on delta inflight movies: does anyone really want to watch them on a phone? – the wall street journal ($subscription required$) it’s the age-old question about inflight entertainment. does a seatback screen matter or not? barbara peterson at the wsj took a look. what the american-alaska partnership means for delta – tpg… cf on feb 14, 2020 feb 15, 2020 the force awakens: american renews ties with alaska as they make a joint move on seattle the force awakens: american renews ties with alaska as they make a joint move on seattle remember that whole thing about american stagnating? the message reached a deafening roar when delta took latam away. it looks like someone over there got the message. this morning, american is announcing that it and alaska are planning to renew the codeshare that was set to all-but-end next month… cf on feb 13, 2020 feb 13, 2020 big gains for american's mechanics and fleet service as a tentative agreement is finally reached big gains for american's mechanics and fleet service as a tentative agreement is finally reached it has been six years since american and us airways merged, and there is now finally a joint contract on the table for the new american’s mechanics and fleet service agents. those are the groups represented by the joint twu-iam association, and they’ve been locked in a heated battle with … cf on feb 2, 2020 feb 3, 2020 american begins to look beyond its rigid hub strategy with new austin service american begins to look beyond its rigid hub strategy with new austin service ever since the us airways days, the current american management team has been completely and totally focused on building service in hubs and only in hubs. that has frustrated many, especially those in logical spokes that could benefit from more service. this is finally starting to change, if ever-so-slightly. today, … cf on dec 10, 2019 dec 10, 2019 corrected: shining the spotlight on october’s operational problem children corrected: shining the spotlight on october’s operational problem children my apologies, but i somehow mixed up the a14 numbers for southwest, frontier, and united. this has been corrected, and i have updated the post to reflect the correct data. ah, october. fall has arrived, thunderstorms have diminished, and the weather is about as good as it usually can … cf on nov 11, 2019 nov 11, 2019 settling the debate: does american or united have more first class seats in chicago? settling the debate: does american or united have more first class seats in chicago? united had its first global media day (at least, first that i can remember) on friday, and it was an event well done. that being said, i didn’t expect there would be homework…. chief commercial officer andrew nocella was up on stage when a question was asked about american’s claims … cf on nov 5, 2019 oct 28, 2019 the case for copa defecting to american the case for copa defecting to american as latam prepares to consciously uncouple from american, the discussion has centered around what american can do to shore up its already-solid latin american network. in the vision i laid out recently, the least controversial piece was that american should use gol (an airline that was unconsciously uncoupled … cf on oct 17, 2019 oct 21, 2019 american rearranges the deck chairs american rearranges the deck chairs sorry for the delayed post, but this news was under embargo until now, and i thought it worth waiting instead of posting next week. rumors about changes in american’s management have reached a fever pitch recently, and now a change is officially being made. the problem is… it’s more of … cf on oct 10, 2019 oct 10, 2019 a blueprint for american in latin america a blueprint for american in latin america last week i wrote about how american’s loss of latam as a partner wasn’t necessarily a problem from a commercial point-of-view but rather from a strategic and management point-of-view. today, i’m going to dive deeper into the network to show exactly what i meant. it’s story time, but instead of … cf on oct 4, 2019 oct 8, 2019 posts navigation page 1 page 2 page 3 … page 37 nextnext footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site!