australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video u.s. news 03/27/2020 16:42 edt | updated 37 minutes ago americans trapped in nepal frustrated with u.s. government's lack of response nearly 10,000 tourists are stranded in nepal after the government suspended all international flights to prevent the spread of covid-19. by rowaida abdelaziz, huffpost us steve beyatte and christina brady-smith were eight days into their hike across the himalayas when brady-smith’s mother texted the couple warning them the airports were going to close and they needed to leave fast. the san francisco-based couple had spent the last 10 months traveling across the world to celebrate their marriage in lieu of a traditional wedding. they’d arrived in nepal in february, and planned to travel around the country. they managed to get back to kathmandu, the nation’s capital, on march 23 to fly to the u.s. the next day. but that night, they got a call from hotel staff telling them the country would be following a shelter-in-place order the next day, and their flights were canceled. beyatte and brady-smith are among many people stuck away from home as the coronavirus pandemic spreads around the world and countries take increasingly drastic measures to slow the outbreak. in nepal alone up to 10,000 tourists are stranded after the government sealed its borders and suspended all international flights. the u.s. embassy there has done little to help, said beyatte, a 33-year-old web developer. he and brady-smith were staying at a hotel with a number of other foreigners when they learned they were stuck. they watched as the british, german and australian embassies communicated and reassured their own nationals. but when they tried to contact the u.s. embassy for help, they didn’t get anywhere. “they’re absolutely atrocious with communication,” beyatte said. “it’s a nightmare.” on friday, germany retrieved more than 300 people from nepal on a rescue flight, the same day a number of french nationals were flown out of lukla, at the base of mount everest. the british and australian embassies assured their citizens that a ferry flight was in the works to assist with their return. the u.s., meanwhile, seems to have done little to help americans stuck in nepal, to beyatte’s frustration. “the united states embassy has been so uncommunicative about what’s going on, about what they’re doing or about how they’re helping anything,” he said. “they just aren’t putting anything out. i’ve called them a million times. they’re just not responsive at all.” a state department spokesperson told huffpost that it is “closely monitoring the situation around the world, including u.s. citizen passengers on more than 50 cruise ships still at sea.” “serious obstacles remain as we seek to carry out an unprecedented effort to repatriate thousands of americans from across the globe,” said the spokesperson, who also noted that as of march 24, the agency had brought home more than 9,000 american citizens from 28 countries. “we continue to urge american citizens to utilize commercial transportation options where available. where these options no longer exist, our teams are exploring all possible means to help americans get home, including charter flights where appropriate,” the spokesperson added. photo provided by john arns john arns, a 47-year-old oakland resident who is also stranded in nepal and is a member of the "americans stuck in nepal" facebook group. beyatte and his wife have tried to get home on commercial transport but to no avail. they have booked seven different flights back to the u.s.; four have been canceled and the remaining three are likely to be. due to the lack of information from official channels, beyatte said he is in large part relying on a facebook group where fellow travelers stranded in nepal share information about their communications with the embassy, hotel openings and lockdown updates. “the facebook group is good because everybody’s sharing what they’re learning, but that’s the embassy’s job to send out an email to everybody or update the damn webpage,” said john arns, a 47-year-old oakland, california, resident who is also stranded in nepal and regularly reading the “americans stuck in nepal” facebook group. arns arrived in the country in february after spending six months in india. he was due back to india last week but his march 22 flight was canceled. (on wednesday, india announced its own lockdown after more than 600 individuals tested positive for the covid-19 virus. it had suspended flights to and from europe and the u.s. a week earlier.) instead, arns decided he’d return home to the u.s. to care for his elderly parents, who he worries might contract the virus. but those plans were also thwarted after his march 26 flight was canceled. left with no choice, he extended his nepali visa and for now, he’s stranded in nepal. he tried to register for the smart traveler enrollment program, a state department service that allows u.s. travelers to receive the latest security updates, but the website was not working. discouraged and left with no other options, he turned to the facebook group for help. “i don’t have the confidence that my government’s going to take care of me,” said arns. photo provided by walk zink walt zink, a 44-year-old photographer and bartender from boston, arrived in nepal on march 10 to hike through the everest region and take a series of portraits of people in the region. outside of nepal’s capital, nearly 500 trekkers are stranded in mountains after they were unable to make it down from their trails before the lockdown went into effect. earlier this month, the nepali government called off this year’s hiking season — which includes treks to mt. everest — because of the coronavirus outbreak, hoping to deter the more than 700,000 tourists that visit the mountains every year. walt zink, a 44-year-old photographer and bartender from boston arrived in nepal on march 10 to hike through the everest region and take a series of portraits of people in the region. when he heard about the lockdown of the trails, he caught the last flight from lukla to kathmandu on march 23, in order to catch a flight from the capital back to the u.s., but he was too late. zink had missed the last flight out of kathmandu. zink, who is now staying with a friend, is monitoring that same facebook group, hoping for good news. it’s hard not to look at other nations and their swift action and feel defeated. “[those governments] are actually treating people like humans,” said beyatte. “we’re humans too.” a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic trump rejects new york’s desperate plea for ventilators what you need to know about at-home coronavirus test kits how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off avoiding going to the store? here’s how to order groceries online. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. related... american students trapped in peru urge trump to bring them home displaced families tap into survival instincts to tackle covid-19 outbreak border closures separate mother from 3-year-old son amid coronavirus crisis suggest a correction rowaida abdelaziz reporter, huffpost more: united states coronavirus united states department of state nepal lockdown kathmandu trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.