editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. cafe / outside voices & analysis latest 1 min ago trump signs $2.2 trillion coronavirus stimulus package 50 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 51 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry amid covid-19 outbreak, workers who need paid sick days the most have the least a woman wearing a protective mask rides a subway on march 9, 2020 in new york city. (photo by jeenah moon/getty images) by elise gould | march 10, 2020 2:46 p.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. this article is part of tpm cafe, tpm’s home for opinion and news analysis. this article first appeared on the economic policy institute’s blog. the united states is unprepared for the covid-19 pandemic given that many workers throughout the economy will have financial difficulty in following the cdc’s recommendations to stay home and seek medical care if they think they’ve become infected. millions of u.s. workers and their families don’t have access to health insurance, and only 30% of the lowest paid workers have the ability to earn paid sick days — workers who typically have lots of contact with the public and aren’t able to work from home. there are deficiencies in paid sick days coverage per sector, particularly among those workers with a lot of public exposure. the figure below displays access to paid sick leave by sector. information and financial activities have the highest rates of coverage at 95% and 91%, respectively. education and health services, manufacturing, and professional and business services have lower rates of coverage, but still maintain at least three-quarters of workers with access. trade, transportation, and utilities comes in at 72%, but there are significant differences within that sector ranging from utilities at 95% down to retail trade at 64% (not shown). over half of private-sector workers in leisure and hospitality do not have access to paid sick days. within that sector, 55% of workers in accommodation and food services do not have access to paid sick days (not shown). of the public health concerns in the workforce related to covid-19, two loom large: those who work with the elderly because of how dangerous the virus is for that population and those who work with food because of the transmission of illness. research shows that more paid sick days is related to reduced flu rates. there is no reason to believe contagion of covid-19 will be any different. when over half of workers in food services and related occupations do not have access to paid sick days, the illness may spread more quickly. what exacerbates the lack of paid sick days among these workers is that their jobs are already not easily transferable to working from home. on average, about 29% of all workers can work from home. and, not surprisingly, workers in sectors where they are more likely to have paid sick days are also more likely to be able to work from home. over 50% of workers in information, financial activities, and professional and business services can work from home. however, only about 9% of workers in leisure and hospitality are able to work from home. many of the 73% of workers with access to paid sick days will not have enough days banked to be able to take off for the course of the illness to take care of themselves or a family member. covid-19’s incubation period could be as long as 14 days, and little is known about how long it could take to recover once symptoms take hold. the figure below displays the amount of paid sick days workers have access to at different lengths of service. paid sick days increase by years of service, but even after twenty years, only 25% of private-sector workers are offered at least 10 days of paid sick days a year. the small sliver of green shows that a very small share (only about 4%) of workers — regardless of their length of service — have access to more than 14 paid sick days. that’s just under three weeks for a five-day-a-week worker, assuming they have that many days at their disposal at the time when illness strikes. the vast majority of workers, over three-quarters of all workers, have nine days or less of paid sick time. this clearly shows that even among workers with access to some amount of paid sick days, the amounts are likely to be insufficient. elise gould is a senior economist at the economic policy institute. have a tip? send it here! more in cafe 3 hours ago instead of bailing out corporations, why not cancel student debt? 6 days ago covid-19 has shown us the 2020 election can’t be the only way to check trump’s impulses 1 week ago eric holder’s unglamorous fight to unrig redistricting in america comments advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy