toggle navigation sign up/login sign up scheduled to reopen later in 2020 are you ready to amp up your podcasting? get your time back, grow your listenership, and earn more money do you have a podcast but feel stuck? are you lacking the motivation to continue? creating and launching a podcast is a wonderful moment for you and your audience. it’s a big accomplishment that deserves a big kudos. the world needs more talented podcasters like you! but if you’ve been podcasting for more than a few months, you may feel burned out and are struggling with how to move forward. do any of these struggles sound familiar to you? do you feel bogged down by your recording schedule? are you struggling to keep up your motivation and energy to produce a show every week? do you sometimes wish it didn’t take up so much of your time? are you running out of content ideas? do you ever wonder if you’re ever going to make enough money on the podcast to make it worth the effort? i’ve been there! i’ve created four different podcasts in the past ten years, and i know what it’s like to feel overwhelmed, in a rut, and ready to throw in the towel! you need more than passion. you need a plan. why do podcasters burn out? honestly, it’s because they didn’t have a plan in place to support the ongoing needs of their podcast. without a smart plan, podcasters risk wasting a lot of time, energy, and even dollars to keep their shows going. and many never enjoy a return on those investments. that’s no fun, which is why it’s no surprise that many podcasters take breaks from making their shows or worse—kill them completely. i know you don't want that to be you. i believe in you and your passion for podcasting! however, passion isn’t enough to sustain and grow your podcast. and it certainly isn’t enough to make money from your podcast. you need a proven plan to help you structure and streamline your podcast production, elevate the quality of your show, and incorporate ways to make money that are consistent with your brand and values. that’s why i created amp’d up podcasting—to help committed podcasters like you avoid burnout, discover smarter ways to work, and incorporate authentic monetization strategies to transform your promising podcast into an sustainable and profitable one! amp'd up podcasting can help you ramp up to greater rewards. imagine this: you’re in your home office. you’ve just recorded a batch of podcast episodes with some amazing guests. you have your podcasting calendar planned for the next six months, and you have a team that is helping you nail down the guest interviews. you upload your podcast recordings into dropbox, and then let your team know they are ready for production. done. you feel great! now, you turn your efforts to marketing this week’s podcast. your team has created social images to share, you have copy already written for an email to your audience. you have your affiliate links set up on your website for this week’s episode. everything is going along like clockwork. you have the systems and processes, and possibly even a team, in place to keep the “podcast machine” going, and to keep you stress-free. you have time and energy to focus on dreaming up new episodes, and planning for the rest of the year, and working on other areas of your business. best of all, your audience is growing steadily, your income is increasing, and you’re feeling excited about the possibilities. sounds great, right? amp’d up podcasting will give you the step-by-step instruction you need to make this vision a reality. sounds great, right? even if you’re not ready to hire a team to help you out, i can give you tips, tools, and resources to help you put a system and schedule in place to help you thrive as a podcaster. this course contains the goods that will up your podcasting game. this course will help you create a system, process, and team that will help make your podcast sustainable over the long haul! amp’d up podcasting is the next step if you’ve already taken my power-up podcasting course, or if you’re an experienced podcaster but feel like you’ve hit a wall. by the end of this comprehensive, 18 video course, you’ll have: a “done-for-you” system that will take the production burden off of you. the knowledge to hire the right team or service to edit, export, schedule, and publish podcast episodes a plan for getting more listeners a way to monetize your podcast and increase your earnings hi, i'm pat flynn. i’d love to teach you my most successful podcasting strategies, techniques, and other secrets. i'm here to help you reach your potential as a podcaster. i’ve been podcasting since 2010, beginning with the smart passive income podcast, my flagship show that’s consistently ranked in itunes as a top business podcast. i’ve also created four other podcasts, including the askpat podcast, all of your beeswax (which i create with my son), and the legacy shows: foodtruckr podcast and 1-day business breakthrough (with my friend chris ducker). i’ve published over 1,300 episodes across all of my podcasts, with more than 50 million downloads, and interviewed some amazing guests, including youtuber marques brownlee (a.k.a. mkbhd), james clear, amy porterfield, chris ducker, and nicole walters. in the past eight years, i’ve earned over $300k in sponsorship income from my podcasts. i’m convinced: podcasting is one of the most valuable tools for growing a business. my podcast has helped me connect with and educate my listeners, launch products, and make the most of live, in-person events. more people find my business and stay connected to it because of my podcasts. throughout the course of creating, launching, and marketing these podcasts, i’ve learned what works and what doesn’t, how to grow a show, and which successes can and can’t be replicated. i’ve helped thousands of podcasters get up and running with the own podcasts through my free podcasting tutorial and my course power-up podcasting. but i’ve heard from many of my students that they need to “amp up” their podcasts, but they don’t know how to go about doing that. they are wondering how to keep their podcast running without getting burned out. how can they develop a system that runs smoothly, hire a team they can trust, get more listeners, and make more money from their podcast? if you’re wondering the same things, then my amp’d up podcasting course is for you. i will give you everything you need to make your existing podcast the best it can be, and help you come up with a system so you can keep it going for the long haul. here's what you'll learn with amp'd up podcasting. amp’d up podcasting is chock full of great information to help you avoid burnout and build a professional process for your podcast. a is for automate. you'll learn the steps to automate your podcast, including how to: develop a content and launch calendar schedule interviews and batch-process production train your team use an editing service what to do when you can’t yet hire a team m is for market. you'll learn how to market your show, including how to: figure out why your show isn’t growing (and how to change that) choose the right content to optimize marketing efforts get people to share, talk and come back for more get guest spots on other podcasts develop a repurposing plan that works optimize your website for your podcast get the attention of main media for your podcast shoot for top rankings plan for the future p is for profit. you'll learn how to increase your profit, focusing on: the importance of mindset methods for making money with a podcast (and my recommendation for where to start) determining your first focus offer incorporating affiliate marketing building your podcasting funnel creating an evergreen promotion plan how to start an advertising program using patreon for direct listener support plus, you'll have help along the way! being a podcaster can be lonely, but you don't have to go it alone! here's how your classmates and i will support you in the course: get clear action items that will set you up for success. i will teach you how to hire a team, monetize your podcast, and grow your listenership. exclusive access to a facebook community. within the community, you can discuss coursework and trade ideas with your fellow classmates. office hours with pat during the first month. this will give you the opportunity to ask me questions and get advice. and, you'll have my guarantee! i think amp’d up podcasting will help you level up your podcast. but if you decide you’re not satisfied with the course, email us within 30 days and we’ll refund your money. all of it. course curriculum welcome to amp'd up podcasting available in days days after you enroll start welcome to amp'd up podcasting! (3:51) a: let's automate available in days days after you enroll start module 1 overview (6:05) start lesson 01: your content calendar (11:23) start lesson 02: your personal production schedule (12:04) start lesson 03: editing and publishing solutions (12:35) m: marketing levers available in days days after you enroll start module 2 overview (4:09) start lesson 01: podcasting marketing audit (26:28) start lesson 02: post-publishing protocol (17:19) start lesson 03: marketing lever #1 (16:53) start lesson 04: marketing lever #2 (12:32) start lesson 05: marketing lever #3 (11:20) p: profit available in days days after you enroll start module 3 overview (3:07) start lesson 01: pro affiliate marketing for podcasters (18:36) start lesson 02: back to your content calendar (9:05) start lesson 03: the #1 way to promote your own product (5:00) start lesson 04: building your email list with your podcast (12:50) start lesson 05: building your podcast funnel (11:41) start lesson 06: one final note (2:37) bonus lessons available in days days after you enroll start bonus lessons coming soon! office hours available in days days after you enroll start office hours who is amp'd up podcasting for? this course is not for beginners! if you’re just starting out, i recommend my course, power up podcasting. but amp’d up podcasting is the course for podcasters who: already have a podcast up and running. amp’d up will help you break through a plateau and help you realize your podcasting potential. want to produce your podcast more efficiently and effectively. i will give you systems and processes to make podcasting production easier, and also give you advice on how to hire a team. want to grow your listenership. i’ll show you how to market and get your podcast noticed to a wider audience. want to earn more money from you podcast. i’ll show you easy, effective ways to monetize your podcast. are burned out and need a plan for making the podcasting easier. this course will offer ideas on how to batch your interviews, create an editorial calendar, and more! i’ve been hosting podcasts for ten years, and i want to share with you everything i’ve learned about how to make the most of your podcast! i want to help you realize your podcasting potential. you can do more with your podcast! and i want you to learn how. i have a passion for helping people achieve online business success, and i want to help you learn how to make your podcast reach its potential. yes, it takes hard work, but i can show you step-by-step how to optimize your podcast to reach more listeners, streamline production, and grow your podcasting income. podcasting has been a game-changer in my business, and i can show you how it can be for yours, too. thank you! i appreciate you. podcasting has been an amazing way for me to grow my business. through podcasting, i have grown an amazing audience, had a way to help others by interviewing guests who can offer expertise and advice, and i have met some amazing people. really, podcasting has been a game-changer for me. and i can show you how it can be a game-changer for you, too. thank you for considering joining me for this course! sincerely, pat flynn frequently asked questions how long do i have access to the course? after enrolling, you will have lifetime access to the course. work through the course at your own pace. what do i do if i need help? if you have a question related to this course, email [email protected] thanks! how long is the course? plan to take about one month to complete the course. there are four video overviews and 14 video lessons. can i pay with paypal? yes. on the checkout page under the "billing information" section, switch from the credit card tab to the paypal tab. choose your country and click "enroll in course" to be directed to the paypal checkout. what if i am unhappy with the course? oh no! we don't want that! we offer a 30-day money back guarantee. if you are unhappy with the course for any reason, let us know and we will refund your payment within 30 days. we would appreciate notification within the first 30 days of the course. when does the course start and finish? the course will be reopened periodically; use the email signup box to receive notifications when the course reopens. once you have enrolled, you have ongoing access. the course is self-paced and you may take as long as you need to complete it. my honest disclaimer: hi. pat here. i want to make sure you understand this is not a get rich quick scheme. the results i've achieved are not typical, and your results will vary significantly. i’ve put in years of effort, and have been very fortunate. not all businesses succeed, and this product will not guarantee your success. this offering is an education tool. always remember that running a business involves risk. some businesses succeed, and some fail. any testimonials are real and valid, but are not guarantees you will obtain the same results. you should assume that any links leading you to products or services are affiliate links that i will receive compensation from just to be safe. having said that, there are millions of products and services on the web. i only promote those products or services that i have investigated and truly feel deliver value to you. © 2019 flynndustries llc © spi media 2020 terms of use privacy policy