home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads a guide for the perplexed: mapping the meaning of life and the four levels of being beloved artist agnes martin on our greatest obstacle to happiness and how to transcend it madness and genius: cosmologist janna levin on the vitalizing power of obsessiveness, from newton to einstein labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks an antidote to helplessness and disorientation: the great humanistic philosopher and psychologist erich fromm on our human fragility as the key to our survival and our sanity “only through full awareness of the danger to life can this potential be mobilized for action capable of bringing about drastic changes in our way of organizing society.” by maria popova to be human is to be a miracle of evolution conscious of its own miraculousness — a consciousness beautiful and bittersweet, for we have paid for it with a parallel awareness not only of our fundamental improbability but of our staggering fragility, of how physiologically precarious our survival is and how psychologically vulnerable our sanity. to make that awareness bearable, we have evolved a singular faculty that might just be the crowning miracle of our consciousness: hope. hope — and the wise, effective action that can spring from it — is the counterweight to the heavy sense of our own fragility. it is a continual negotiation between optimism and despair, a continual negation of cynicism and naïveté. we hope precisely because we are aware that terrible outcomes are always possible and often probable, but that the choices we make can impact the outcomes. art by the brothers hilts from a velocity of being: letters to a young reader. how to harness that uniquely human paradox in living more empowered lives in even the most vulnerable-making circumstances is what the great humanistic philosopher and psychologist erich fromm (march 23, 1900–march 18, 1980) explores in the 1968 gem the revolution of hope: toward a humanized technology (public library), written in an era when both hope and fear were at a global high, by a german jew who had narrowly escaped a dismal fate by taking refuge first in switzerland and then in america when the nazis seized power. erich fromm in a sentiment he would later develop in contemplating the superior alternative to the parallel lazinesses of optimism and pessimism, fromm writes: hope is a decisive element in any attempt to bring about social change in the direction of greater aliveness, awareness, and reason. but the nature of hope is often misunderstood and confused with attitudes that have nothing to do with hope and in fact are the very opposite. half a century before the physicist brian greene made his poetic case for our sense of mortality as the wellspring of meaning in our ephemeral lives, fromm argues that our capacity for hope — which has furnished the greatest achievements of our species — is rooted in our vulnerable self-consciousness. writing well before ursula k. le guin’s brilliant unsexing of the universal pronoun, fromm (and all of his contemporaries and predecessors, male and female, trapped in the linguistic convention of their time) may be forgiven for using man as shorthand for the generalized human being: man, lacking the instinctual equipment of the animal, is not as well equipped for flight or for attack as animals are. he does not “know” infallibly, as the salmon knows where to return to the river in order to spawn its young and as many birds know where to go south in the winter and where to return in the summer. his decisions are not made for him by instinct. he has to make them. he is faced with alternatives and there is a risk of failure in every decision he makes. the price that man pays for consciousness is insecurity. he can stand his insecurity by being aware and accepting the human condition, and by the hope that he will not fail even though he has no guarantee for success. he has no certainty; the only certain prediction he can make is: “i shall die.” what makes us human is not the fact of that elemental vulnerability, which we share with all other living creatures, but the awareness of that fact — the way existential uncertainty worms the consciousness capable of grasping it. but in that singular fragility lies, also, our singular resilience as thinking, feeling animals capable of foresight and of intelligent, sensitive decision-making along the vectors of that foresight. illustration by margaret c. cook for a rare 1913 edition of leaves of grass by walt whitman. (available as a print.) fromm writes: man is born as a freak of nature, being within nature and yet transcending it. he has to find principles of action and decision making which replace the principles of instinct. he has to have a frame of orientation that permits him to organize a consistent picture of the world as a condition for consistent actions. he has to fight not only against the dangers of dying, starving, and being hurt, but also against another danger that is specifically human: that of becoming insane. in other words, he has to protect himself not only against the danger of losing his life but also against the danger of losing his mind. the human being, born under the conditions described here, would indeed go mad if he did not find a frame of reference which permitted him to feel at home in the world in some form and to escape the experience of utter helplessness, disorientation, and uprootedness. there are many ways in which man can find a solution to the task of staying alive and of remaining sane. some are better than others and some are worse. by “better” is meant a way conducive to greater strength, clarity, joy, independence; and by “worse” the very opposite. but more important than finding the better solution is finding some solution that is viable. art by pascal lemaître from listen by holly m. mcghee as we navigate our own uncertain times together, may a thousand flowers of sanity bloom, each valid so long as it is viable in buoying the human spirit it animates. and may we remember the myriad terrors and uncertainties preceding our own, which have served as unexpected awakenings from some of our most perilous civilizational slumbers. fromm — who devoted his life to illuminating the inner landscape of the individual human being as the tectonic foundation of the political topography of the world — composed this book during the 1968 american presidential election. he was aglow with hope that the unlikely ascent of an obscure, idealistic, poetically inclined senator from minnesota by the name of eugene mccarthy (not to be confused with the infamous joseph mccarthy, who stood for just about everything opposite) might steer the country toward precisely such pathways to “greater strength, clarity, joy, independence.” mccarthy lost — to none other than nixon — and the country plummeted into more war, more extractionism, more reactionary nationalism and bigotry. but the very rise of that unlikely candidate contoured hopes undared before — hopes some of which have since become reality and others have clarified our most urgent work as a society and a species. fromm writes: a man who was hardly known before, one who is the opposite of the typical politician, averse to appealing on the basis of sentimentality or demagoguery, truly opposed to the vietnam war, succeeded in winning the approval and even the most enthusiastic acclaim of a large segment of the population, reaching from the radical youth, hippies, intellectuals, to liberals of the upper middle classes. this was a crusade without precedent in america, and it was something short of a miracle that this professor-senator, a devotee of poetry and philosophy, could become a serious contender for the presidency. it proved that a large segment of the american population is ready and eager for humanization… indicating that hope and the will for change are alive. art from trees at night by art young, 1926. (available as a print.) having given reign to his own hope and will for change in this book “appealing to the love for life (biophilia) that still exists in many of us,” fromm reflects on a universal motive force of resilience and change: only through full awareness of the danger to life can this potential be mobilized for action capable of bringing about drastic changes in our way of organizing society… one cannot think in terms of percentages or probabilities as long as there is a real possibility — even a slight one — that life will prevail. complement the revolution of hope — an indispensable treasure rediscovered half a century after its publication and republished in 2010 by the american mental health foundation — with fromm on spontaneity, the art of living, the art of loving, the art of listening, and why self-love is the key to a sane society, then revisit philosopher martha nussbaum on how to live with our human fragility and rebecca solnit on the real meaning of hope in difficult times. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published march 22, 2020 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2020/03/22/erich-fromm-revolution-of-hope/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under bookscultureerich frommphilosophypoliticspsychology view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.