skip to content (press enter) home blog seo off page seo article submission forum posting pdf submission ping submission profile creation web 2.0 search engine submission on page seo advanced link building tools trim url social media facebook twitter linkedin pinterest social media tools interview services consulting digital marketing ppc seo social media seo mumbai seo new york seo social media verification facebook verification twitter verification instagram verification about advertise contact contribute featured make a donation list of donors invite bloggers rahul yadav digital marketing consultant & seo expert delhi, india home blog seo off page seo article submission forum posting pdf submission ping submission profile creation web 2.0 search engine submission on page seo advanced link building tools trim url social media facebook twitter linkedin pinterest social media tools interview services consulting digital marketing ppc seo social media seo mumbai seo new york seo social media verification facebook verification twitter verification instagram verification about advertise contact contribute featured make a donation list of donors invite bloggers march 23, 2020march 24, 2020/ rahul yadav an interview with victor blasco, ceo yum yum videos interview in this interview, we not only discuss victor’s background and how he got to be where he is today, but we also dig into the power of video blogging and becoming a video blogging rockstar (or “vlogstar”). it’s something a lot of people overlook, but something that could really be a valuable tool for growing your business. please introduce yourself to our audience hi! my name is victor blasco, ceo of yum yum videos. i’m a video marketing pro, a lifelong student of chinese philosophy, and passionate for all things geek. where did the idea for yum yum videos come from we wanted a quick and fun way to describe our approach to video marketing and originality. ideas are food for your mind, and we wanted to convey that our content was delicious and unique! so… “yum yum videos,” videos that taste different. can you explain about the services of yum yum videos we create high-quality animated marketing videos for brands all across the globe, specializing in explainer videos and educational content. tell us something about your upcoming online video production trends for one, social video content will only get bigger, and “weirder”… but you probably knew that already! what i actually mean is that you can’t really accurately predict what shape video content will predominantly take over the next couple of years in the social media realm – few could have predicted what’s happening right now with new styles of video content coming out of platforms like tik tok, for example. but, as i said, it will only get bigger and more interesting moving forward. artificial intelligence and vr are two other techs with huge potential for video production once the tech gets a bit more approachable. but that’s still a bit further down the road. what are yum yum videos success model honestly? a combination of quality of service and product. we work really hard to go the extra mile with our content and make sure the experience is as fun and fulfilling for our clients as it is for us! what’s your favorite social network – instagram, facebook, linkedin or twitter that’d be linkedin. but as part of a b2b company, that shouldn’t come as a surprise! on a more personal level, i love the creativity and beauty you can find on instagram. which marketing experts influenced you the most? who do you follow i draw a lot of creative inspiration from the whole team at hubspot, and get a lot of drive from dynamic digital marketers like neil patel. what tools do you use to help you run your business wistia – amazing hosting service with a wealth of valuable analytics. hubspot – fantastic software platform that helps marketing efforts. slack – great for effective internal communication. semrush – one of the best seo solutions i’ve found. box – you can never be too careful with your data. backup everything! what is the main reason behind the good reputation of yum yum videos like i mentioned before, i believe the main reason behind that is the quality of our work! we are always striving to meet and exceed the industry’s highest standards, and we apply the same philosophy in every single project we work on. even though we do offer different tiers of products, we never settle! and i think that has nurtured our relationships with our clients over the years. however, in a more traditional sense, i’d say having a carefully developed and polished production process allows us to deliver great service to our clients. incorporating their feedback at all stages of the process and ensuring the end result is something they love as much as we do. related posts: 7 reasons for videos in your blog posts how to make effective product videos for your business how to do effective video marketing for your business the complete guide to video marketing for beginners 8 ways you can make money online with videos top 20 free video submission websites to upload your videos 11 tips for using youtube to generate quality leads rahul yadav rahul yadav is digital marketing consultant and expert in delhi, india. he provides seo, social media marketing & ppc consulting services worldwide. contact at gitm.rahul@gmail.com post navigation prev postan interview with stuart walker from nichehacks next posttop 20 graphic designing company in india leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name* email* website search for: “i’m an indiblogger!” hi, i am rahul yadav a digital marketing consultant and seo expert in delhi, india. i work with new startups, entrepreneurs, freelancers, and bloggers. i am a professional blogger and i write, speak, and consult mostly about how to blog tips, seo news, products reviews, inbound marketing, social media marketing etc. related posts: 7 reasons for videos in your blog posts how to make effective product videos for your business how to do effective video marketing for your business the complete guide to video marketing for beginners 8 ways you can make money online with videos top 20 free video submission websites to upload your videos 11 tips for using youtube to generate quality leads the best vlogging tips for youtube vloggers 4 fantastic online jobs for 15 year olds teen (legit jobs) the easiest way to download videos from instagram how much money does youtube pay per 1000 views? 7 easy tips to generate youtube traffic how to optimize your product pages for higher… the future of blogging you need to know about how to attract users to subscribe to your youtube channel recent posts top 20 graphic designing company in india an interview with victor blasco, ceo yum yum videos an interview with stuart walker from nichehacks sorav jain from echovme – an interview on digital marketing legal and technical hurdles surrounding online casino in india top 10 digital marketing training institute in ahmedabad top 10 social media marketing companies in delhi top 10 best tech websites you should bookmark right now top 5 digital marketing institutes and training course in ambala 9 ways to really boost your ecommerce project about us rahul yadav is a digital marketing consultant from new delhi, india. he is also an author, speaker and trainer in the field of digital marketing. he trains students, professionals and business men on digital marketing. related posts: 7 reasons for videos in your blog posts how to make effective product videos for your business how to do effective video marketing for your business the complete guide to video marketing for beginners recent posts top 20 graphic designing company in india an interview with victor blasco, ceo yum yum videos an interview with stuart walker from nichehacks sorav jain from echovme – an interview on digital marketing categories categories select category adsense affiliate marketing ahmedabad amazon analysis android apps australia blogger blogging business chennai content coupon courses deals delhi digital marketing dubai ecommerce email marketing facebook fashion food guest blogging guest post guwahati haryana health hosting hyderabad ias iit instagram interview interview questions jaipur kerala keyword research laptop link building linkedin make money malaysia mumbai new zealand noida orm paid post pakistan patna pinterest podcast ppc pune seo singapore snapchat social media sri lanka startup tool travel twitter uncategorized updated vlogging web design wordpress youtube partner with rahul digital copyright © 2020 rahul yadav. creative business | developed by rara theme. powered by wordpress.