home team services influence navigator plan blog contact us influencing, philosophizing an updated list of calgary’s most followed social media people with the potential to influence you jay palterdecember 14, 2015 4:55 pmmarch 30, 20189 comments tweet share301 pin3 +1 share150 454 shares last week, i published a list of 100 social media influencers in calgary and it sparked some insightful discussion. the post was widely shared and it generated the typical “thanks for including me” and “great to be among such great people” comments. it also generated its fair share of criticism, some of which was merited. i was contacted by several people who felt they should have been on the list. i did some additional research and realized that i could capture a number of missing “influencers” by expanding my dataset. so, i recalculated the scoring based on an expanded dataset of almost 7,000 online identities. here is the updated list. this time i have included 200 individuals and 100 organizations. (scroll right to see the scores and use the tabs at the bottom of the embedded spreadsheet to toggle between “persons” and “organizations”. mobile browsers having trouble viewing the list can see it here.) important clarifications about this list this is still not a definitive list of cool people in calgary. i have not personally selected any individuals to be on this list. you can thank the algorithms for that. 🙂 i created the list using a tool called little bird. this tool generates a topical community based on a proprietary analysis of people who are gathering around and discussing a particular topic online. this topical community is referred to as an “insiders list” and is ranked according to “insider score” which is simply the number of other insiders that are following that particular insider. due to the larger dataset, a number of people not present from the previous list are on this list, such as brett wilson, lisa ostrikoff, premier rachel notley and former pm stephen harper. and the relative positioning of people is considerably different based on the expanded dataset. i also extended the list to the top 200, in descending order by insider score, because i find the people in the second hundred just as interesting as the ones in the first. if i expanded the dataset much more, say to 10,000 or 20,000 identities, the top couple of hundred people would likely change a bit, but my guess is not that much. but the point is that this list can and will change depending on a number of factors. hence, back to my first point, it is not a definitive list of cool kids. but it is a very useful and powerful list, nonetheless. on influence and influencers anytime the term “influencers” is used in the context of social media followers, engagement, connections, etc. there are bound to be a variety of perspectives. here’s mine: these people are all influencers. they all have the potential to exercise influence over the their followers. they all have an audience, they all have reach – and those audiences include other people with considerable reach. the concept of influence is far richer than simply audience and reach on social media. i get that. but the people i’m familiar with on this list also have influence outside of social media. in some cases, that influence is on the rise, while in others it is on the decline. some may be influential to me, some to you and others to neither of us. in short, i think influence is a complex process and i am not reducing it to social media followers. however, online social networks are increasingly part of our interpersonal communications and our online connections can influence us in a variety of ways. on lists and status groups as a species, we are motivated by status and pecking order. we love lists because they allow us to measure ourselves in relation to others. and lists simplify (perhaps “over-simplify”) otherwise complex and overwhelming datasets. social media, among other things, is a complex dataset. sorting through all that data and making some sense of it has value in many situations, including business, marketing, public relations, politics, and social advocacy. my point is this: who the people are that sit in the top 10 or 50 or 100 spots on this list is far less useful than the aggregate value of a list of insiders with large aggregate following and reach. focusing on the influence or status of any one person overlooks the influence of the group as a whole. i look forward to your feedback. note: thanks to john smiley for inspiring me with such polite criticism and civilized discussion. the title of this post and updated list is dedicated to him. tweet share301 pin3 +1 share150 454 shares calgaryinfluencerspersonal brandsocial mediayyc previous articlecalgary’s top 100 social media influencersnext articleedmonton’s top social media influencers 9 comments pingback: calgary's top 100 social media influencers - jon lovink says: december 14, 2015 at 6:00 pm this is really useful. the list is not surprising in some ways as it contains many politicians and at least one (brett) celebrity, but once you account for that it is a great way to understand how some are using sm in smart ways and i will use this as part of my ‘credible spokesperson’ training program’ thanks. how can i return the favor? jon reply jay palter says: december 14, 2015 at 6:11 pm i’m glad you find the list useful, jon. pay it forward and use the information to help someone in your circle. that’s how you can return the favor! reply victoria lenon says: december 14, 2015 at 9:15 pm hello jay, love the list. i am relatively new at using social media. i work with international accountants in a bridging program and have passed the list on to them. they will find this really useful to obtain “the pulse” of calgary. with great thanks, victoria reply jay palter says: december 14, 2015 at 11:56 pm glad to be of assistance, victoria. thank you for sharing your feedback with me. reply john smiley says: december 14, 2015 at 10:12 pm that dedication below the horizontal bar gave me a chuckle. thanks for accepting my comments in the spirit in which they were intended. reply jay palter says: december 14, 2015 at 11:54 pm thank you for insightful observations and the spirit with which they were communicated. listening is under-rated. 🙂 reply jay palter says: december 14, 2015 at 11:54 pm oh, and about that beer… reply pingback: edmonton's top social media influencers - leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website we can help! increase your online visibility grow your influence create content that drives traffic share more frequently manage your social presence contact information calgary, ab 587-586-8433 jay@jaypalter.com recent posts top digital transformation conferences in 2020february 26, 2020 influencer marketing and the importance of social capitaljanuary 29, 2020 is your business ready to succeed in digital transformation?august 14, 2019 top social media influencers in big consultingjuly 15, 2019 what we’re reading this summerjune 20, 2019 recent posts top digital transformation conferences in 2020 influencer marketing and the importance of social capital is your business ready to succeed in digital transformation? company our team services blog contact us disclaimer connect subscribe to latest news * indicates required email address * express consent to receive emails * i consent © copyright 2019 jay palter. all rights reserved. menu home team services blog contact