login to access your participant centre log in to view your fundraising progress, update your personal page, send emails and access fundraising tools. username password remember me forgot your password? login login support a participant home about support a participant fundraising toolkit register faq contact us hi, i'm buzz. this is why i run for team diabetes donate now team diabetes is a family effort many of us only become active in charities when they directly affect our lives. our kids have autism, we wear the blue puzzle pin. our grandmother has breast cancer, and our world becomes pink. some charities, however, go beyond and reach out to those without personal motives. the red ribbon of the aids movement, and lance armstrong‘s livestrong bracelets are examples of awareness becoming almost fashionable. team diabetes has been that for me. i first joined in 2003 because i was interested in running a marathon in iceland. 7 events and 3 continents later, and i'm still running for team diabetes, more committed than ever. team diabetes is about keeping myself healthy, raising funds to support my neighbours to make them healthier, and encouraging people to take control of their own health and stay active. i need a race on my calendar to keep my head in the game, team diabetes does that for me. and, through my involvement in team d, i have met some truly wonderful people affected by diabetes and have become more committed to the cause than ever. i want kids with diabetes to feel safe in school, i want people with type 2 not to feel stigmatized, i want a cure to be found. so i run, so i fundraise, so i spread the word. my next event is running the anchorage run fest in alaska in august, 2019. i will be running in this event with my oldest son, zacharie. we are committed to raising awareness and money to #enddiabetes my goal for this event is to raise $13 000. thanks for supporting me on the journey. view more donate now achievements no badges have been earned personal progress: of goal $10,650 raised $13,000.00 fundraising honor roll . newcap radio anonymous jeffrey leroux - sleepcountry - telus corporation stampede road race kevin and karen macdonald - stampede road race if you think this page contains objectionable content, please inform the system administrator. contact us diabetes canada 1300-522 university ave. toronto, on m5g 2r5 to reach diabetes canada, please call 1-800-banting (226-8464) charitable registration number 11883 0744 rr0001 © 2019 canadian diabetes association. the canadian diabetes association is a registered owner of the name diabetes canada.