skip to content sections the corner bench memos the morning jolt the tuesday news books, arts & manners all articles authors podcasts photos games videos podcasts the editors mad dogs & englishmen give me liberty the mccarthy report victor davis hanson for life political beats constitutionally speaking the great books the bookmonger radio free california ordered liberty photos news & events cartoons culture military science & technology sports world magazine latest issue archive subscribe give nr as a gift customer care nrplus topics politics & policy elections culture white house film & tv pc culture u.s. world immigration economy & business about faq about us the masthead emails & alerts wine club careers advertise donate contact us privacy policy terms of service nr institute search send a tip instagram primary menu national review large national review logo small national review logo donate the corner ... subscribe search national review search text mar. 27, 2020 subscribe ... andrew c. mccarthy follow @andrewcmccarthy get author's rss feed andrew c. mccarthy is a senior fellow at national review institute, an nr contributing editor, and author of ball of collusion: the plot to rig an election and destroy a presidency. read more andrew c. mccarthy is a senior fellow at national review institute, an nr contributing editor, and author of ball of collusion: the plot to rig an election and destroy a presidency. he served as an assistant u.s. attorney for the southern district of new york. the latest health care more thoughts on computing the covid-19 fatality rate by andrew c. mccarthy 6:30 am it’s based on decisions about whom to include or exclude, which are often conjecture. politics & policy the mccarthy report roundup by andrew c. mccarthy march 24, 2020 rich and i once again covered a lot of ground. white house politics, not law (cont’d): president trump invokes ‘major disaster’ power by andrew c. mccarthy march 24, 2020 in times of crisis, political expedience outweighs legal niceties. white house covid-19 and the limits of law by andrew c. mccarthy march 21, 2020 the extent to which law is a barrier against presidential muscle-flexing depends not on what the statutes and opinions say but on how scared we are. health care u.s. covid-19 fatality rate steady: about 1 percent by andrew c. mccarthy march 20, 2020 spikes in reported cases are disturbing, and the death count is heartbreaking. let’s keep our eye, though, on the fatality rate. politics & policy the inevitable shoe drops: doj dismisses mueller’s charges against russian businesses by andrew c. mccarthy march 19, 2020 the indictment was political theater never meant to be tried in court. law & the courts fisa update by andrew c. mccarthy march 18, 2020 wholesale fisa reform is not something that, as a practical matter, can be addressed at this fraught moment. national security & defense no to ‘fisa reform’ by andrew c. mccarthy march 14, 2020 senators paul and lee, their progressive allies, and the trump supporters they’ve hoodwinked would make us vulnerable to terrorists without fixing fisa. politics & policy this week’s edition of the mccarthy report by andrew c. mccarthy march 13, 2020 rich and i have as full a plate of legal and national-security issues as ever. law & the courts harvey weinstein gets 23 years’ imprisonment by andrew c. mccarthy march 11, 2020 state justice james a. burke, who was the trial judge, did not quite throw the book at weinstein, but came close. load more stories from this section load more top stories photo essays 2 view slide show cartoons cartoons of the day: march 27, 2020 114 view slide show news & events deserted cityscapes 58 view slide show news & events social distancing more in photos facebook twitter ... © 2020 national review donate subscribe sections the corner bench memos the morning jolt the g-file news books, arts & manners all articles all authors podcasts photos games videos topics politics & policy culture white house film & tv pc culture u.s. world immigration economy & business elections magazine latest issue archive subscribe gve nr as a gift customer care nrplus about frequently asked questions about us the masthead contact us careers privacy policy terms of service nr institute more advertise donate search e-mails & alerts send a tip newsletters morning jolt (m-f) nr daily (m-sa) breaking news (m-su) email © 2020 national review close ad close national review navigation loading...