4 months of tidal hifi for $4- all your favorite music in the best sound quality available. forums shop toggle search top stories out in front samsung, not apple, is leading the next exciting phone industry change color me impressed these earbuds are basically airpods pro for android with a smaller price first impressions huawei p40 pro hands-on preview: i can see clearly now sponsored content get an unlimited $35/mo. plan + $300 when you byod to sprint search galaxy s20 work from home vpn deals pixel 4 oneplus 8 pro disney+ pricing android 11 playstation 5 chromebook deals latest news make this your homepage share with the world how to get the best twitch stream in playstation vr samuel tolbert 40 min ago getting the best stream quality for twitch while using playstation vr can sometimes be a bit confusing. here's how you can make sure you're using the best settings possible. movie night 🍿 how to stream contagion: watch it online from anywhere now alex smith 1 hour ago 1 bored indoors and curious about where you can watch the 2011 flick, contagion? inside we compile all the ways you can watch this critically-acclaimed movie starring marion cotillard, matt damon, jude law, kate winslet, and more. don't let it break these cases will ensure that your tab s4 is safe from accidents and more andrew myrick 1 hour ago if you want to keep your samsung galaxy tab s4 protected, you’ll need to find the best case. we have found some of the best protective and functional cases that money can buy for your tab s4. stop unapproved downloads stop your little ones from downloading apps onto your amazon fire tablet jeramy johnson 1 hour ago many families purchase amazon fire tablets because they're affordable, durable, and easy to use. amazon has always been a leader in offering parental control options. we'll show you how to enable these on your fire tablet device. free trial ftw start streaming live tv anywhere with a free 14-day trial to sling alex smith 2 hours ago 1 sling is curing our quarantine blues with a free 14-day trial to its sling blue live tv streaming plan. that includes over 45 channels, over 50,000 on-demand movies and shows, and a free cloud dvr. no credit card required. load more stuck at home? a guide to work & entertainment online learning master a new skill with a free month of learning at the great courses plus adam oram 5 hours ago organize your home office 🌱🧹 now's the time to get your home office organized jeramy johnson 7 hours ago buyers guide these are the best chromebooks to buy for you and your family ara wagoner 12 hours ago something for everyone gym closed? these are the best games for working out at home nicholas sutrich 1 day ago 3 fight isolation fatigue with your fitbit ⌚🏃 your fitbit can keep you healthy (and sane) during forced isolation jeramy johnson 1 day ago 3 read with your ears binge these audible audiobooks while socially distancing jeramy johnson 1 day ago 1 best buy delivery get a great microphone delivered to your door in these trying times hayato huseman 1 day ago wfh soundtrack listen to these playlists from amazon music while you work from home jeramy johnson 1 day ago watch it all lots of streaming services are offering free trials, sign up now jared dipane 1 day ago show more foldable phones: a special report unfolding a problem are foldable phones a novelty or the next big thing? daniel bader 2 days ago 8 foldables have been heralded as gimmicks or the next big thing, but the reality is somewhere in between. getting warmer foldables aren't really the 'small' phone you've been looking for (yet) russell holly 2 days ago 7 the galaxy z flip is a great phone. why isn't there a non-bendy version for those of us who want something smaller? wait a bit longer should you buy a foldable phone in 2020? andrew martonik 3 days ago foldables are exciting, but they're not yet mainstream products. that means for most people, the best phone to buy in 2020 is a "traditional" non-folding smartphone. flip and fold all the differences between the types of folding devices dan thorp-lancaster 3 days ago folding phones and pcs are only just started to gain steam, and we've already seen some interesting designs come out of major manufacturers. whether they're using two screens or one, a vertical fold or horizontal, here are some of the biggest differences among them. happy as a clam if you want a small phone, a clamshell foldable is your best bet ara wagoner 3 days ago 1 ladies, how often have you dreamed about being able to comfortably fit your phone in your pocket again, like we could five years ago? we're finally nearing a new dawn for small phones thanks to the rise of clamshell foldables. out of the fold 5 reasons why your next phone shouldn't be a foldable andrew martonik 4 days ago 3 there are some really intriguing aspects of foldables that may make you consider one the next time you're due to upgrade your phone. but i'm here to explain why you should temper your expectations and delay buying a foldable for yet another cycle. load more slot in your storage these are the best sd cards for your chromebook ara wagoner 2 hours ago if you want to expand the storage on your chromebook, you can use its sd card slot and get a microsd or sd card. make sure you buy the right card! all in this together google pledges over $800 million for coronavirus crisis response fund michael allison 2 hours ago google has pledged hundreds of millions towards coronavirus relief. the funds will address issues as myriad as mask and ventilator production, financial aid for small businesses, and ad credits for public health organizations. get your roleplay on here are some of the best rpgs currently available on ps4 jennifer locke, jaz brown and samuel tolbert 3 hours ago it's game time, but you need something that's going to take up a bit of your time. fortunately, for you playstation 4 fans, role-playing games are here to save you! turbocharge how to increase the speed of your current wi-fi router harish jonnalagadda 3 hours ago working from home is hard enough on its own without having to worry about flaky internet. here's how you can maximize the wireless speed of your current wi-fi router. value flagships xiaomi mi 10 series goes global as the new mi 10 lite brings 5g for less michael allison 3 hours ago 1 xiaomi has launched the mi 10 and mi 10 pro in europe. the company has also added a new mi 10 lite to the family. equipped with a snapdragon 765g, this handset will make 5g more accessible. android central digital offers take the headache out of shopping for car insurance with the zebra nobody likes to think about car insurance. aside from the inevitable headaches that arise from dishing out an exorbitant amount of money each month to a company whose positive ads can't make up for the inconvenience of finding the right policy, wading through all of the red tape that accompanies most policies can be a unique nightmare all to itself. can't beat free disney plus trial: how to sign up & watch for free alex smith 4 hours ago whether you're a fan of animated disney classics, marvel films and tv shows, national geographic content, or the star wars saga, disney+ is nearly essential for those who have cut the cable company out of their life and are looking for something to help take its place. pump up the volume pump up your echo dot kids' edition with these bluetooth speakers andrew myrick and jeramy johnson 4 hours ago unfortunately, the speaker found on the echo dot kids isn't the best. luckily, there are plenty of speaker options available on the market for you to pair with the echo dot kids. here are a few of our favorite choices and why. count sheep and sleep with fitbit want to track your sleep with your fitbit? here's how to do it. christine persaud 5 hours ago while many people use fitness trackers to track fitness and activity, they can be just as useful for monitoring the times when you aren't moving. most notably, your sleep. the fitbit trackers and app can tell you not only how many hours of sleep you had, what time you went to bed, and when you woke up, but also your sleep stages, including light, deep, and rem, and more. here's a look... offer upgrade grab 75,000 membership rewards points with the amex business platinum joe wituschek 5 hours ago american express has increased the welcome offer for its business platinum card to a new 75,000 membership rewards® points. staaaarrrrsss the resident evil resistance beta is being delayed on steam and ps4 samuel tolbert 6 hours ago if you've been looking forward to trying the resident evil resistance beta today, you're still good to go ahead — on xbox one. the playstation 4 and steam versions of the beta have run into an error and are being delayed. big leak new samsung galaxy tab s6 lite leak reveals key specs, tab s6-like design babu mohan 6 hours ago the upcoming galaxy tab s6 lite will have a very similar design to the galaxy tab s6, although it won't be anywhere near as impressive in other areas. as per a new leak, the tablet will be powered by an exynos 9611 chipset and sport a 10.4-inch lcd screen. 🐕 disney doggies the best doggone dog shows and movies on disney+ alex smith 6 hours ago with so much to watch on disney+, it can be a bit difficult to wade through the content and make a selection for movie night. inside you'll find a selection of films and tv shows starring some very furry friends that are sure to be hits in your household. ask alexa got questions about coronavirus? amazon's alexa has answers, from the cdc. michael allison 6 hours ago alexa will now help with some coronavirus concerns. in a new update to the digital assistant, users can receive screening questions revolving around possible symptoms and travel history with cdc approved answers to help guide their next steps. freebie buy a $100 hulu gift card, score a free $15 best buy gift card adam oram 6 hours ago buying this hulu gift card gets you a free $15 best buy gift card right now. if you're already paying monthly for hulu, why not snag some savings in the meantime? both gift cards are digital so you can redeem them straight away. weekend update how to make sure you have the latest playstation 4 firmware samantha nelson 6 hours ago many games and applications won't work on the playstation 4 if your system's firmware isn't up to date. here's how you can check to make sure you have the latest version. lots of job losses gamestop plans to close another 300 stores this year asher madan 6 hours ago it seems like gamestop still hasn't been able to turn its business around and in a recent earnings call, said that it was going to shut down another 300 stores this year. the company closed 321 stores last fiscal year but it still has 5,500 locations. no matter your taste, your s20 needs a case these are the best cases to protect your new galaxy s20 ara wagoner 6 hours ago the galaxy s20 is almost here, and if you're already certain it's what you'll be using as your next phone, these are the cases you can buy for it right now! we're just fine thank you google says its network can handle the added demand due to covid-19 muhammad jarir kanji 7 hours ago even though youtube and google services were down for a time yesterday, google is trying to reassure users that its networks can indeed handle the extra stress caused by everyone stay at home during the current crisis. great news oneplus will finally bring always on display to its phones this year babu mohan 7 hours ago 1 oneplus has confirmed that it is currently working on bringing the highly-anticipated always on display feature to its phones. the feature hasn't been fully optimized yet, so it may take several weeks for aod to begin rolling out to users. load more phones reviews chromebooks android how to deals forums gaming vpn other categories about us newsletter advertising inquiries licensing and reprints tip us on news accessibility statement windows central imore crackberry thrifter cordcutters technobuffalo mrmobile log in or sign up twitter facebook youtube instagram rss brightness light mode dark mode © future us, inc. terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy careers licensing external links disclosure accessibility statement © future us, inc. terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy careers licensing external links disclosure accessibility statement