news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals mobile android 8 oreo is coming: here’s what to expect google is about to change the way our phones work once again. android users rejoice. by adam ferraresi january 15, 2018 image: android police it seems like the age of android nougat is finally over, as google has unveiled the new official version of their operating system – android oreo. the beta version of oreo is now available on oneplus 5t. if you’ve been following the news, you probably know that the chinese startup pulled the beta version just a few weeks ago due to an unexpected bug in the software. however, it seems like the issues have been fixed and once again, oreo is here, ready to be downloaded on your phone. so what’s new this time around? a lot actually. although some of these improvements might seem relatively unimportant, they could actually go a long way to help your system act smarter, operate faster and even last longer. bellow, you can find a few things you can expect from oreo… longer battery life image: android authority with all the fuss surrounding apple’s most recent ios update, the topic of battery life seems needlessly controversial these days. but don’t worry dear android user, oreo is here to help you out. while the doze mode in nougat helped you preserve your smartphone’s battery life by keeping your device in a lowered power mode when you put it in your pocket, oreo will make a bigger effort to prevent various apps from draining your battery. read more: android’s new fast pair feature is an absolute game changer the system will actually limit what your apps can do while they are lingering in the background. this includes stopping things like location updates, broadcasts and various background services. lastly, the latest tests have shown that you should see a little more speed as well. as a matter of fact, your phone might be 2x faster, because it won’t have all of those apps slowing it down. more controls over notifications image: android headlines the new feature titled “notification channels” will allow you to customize certain groups of notifications from apps. it will allow you to block off useless notifications and make sure that only the important ones get your attention. for instance, you’ll be able to mute conversations you want in messaging applications while you’re working. you’ll be also able to change colors of your notifications, which is more than useful when it comes to critical notifications and alerts. read more: 7 useful google assistant tips and tricks you should be using and if all of that wasn’t enough for you, the system has small notification dots that appear above certain applications that require your immediate attention. if you’ve owned a newer iphone model, you’re probably more than familiar with this feature. new adaptive icons image: androidguys most android-powered device manufacturers use their own, customized os skins. this, of course, can throw off how the shape and look of application icons correspond to the rest of those users download from android’s play store. but things are about the change in a major way. the new operating system will allow developers to create “adaptive icons” that will give you a number of different shape options, which shift automatically based on your phone’s theme. you’ll have rounded square, circle, and even more options. this will keep your phone’s home screen grid unified by allowing programmers to put different options. picture-in-picture mode image: gadget hacks the days of constantly pausing your youtube videos to respond to emails are long gone. oreo’s pic-in-pic framework for video applications will allow you to continue to watch your favorite shows in a small window while navigating through your phone seamlessly. to be fair, there’s a downside to this feature: the window is practically tiny, which means you won’t be able to actually watch a full movie while typing messages. nonetheless, it still beats having to pause your video, exit the app, respond to something urgent and then slowly come back to your video-playing app once you’re finished. and while you’re probably wondering – haven’t we seen the same feature in galaxy note models – you have to remember that those phones are practically non-existent today. it looks like what’s old is brand new again. and there you have it, those are just some of the main features you can look forward to in the future. google is about to change the way our phones work once again. android users rejoice. related topicsandroidgooglemobilenews adam ferraresi adam ferraresi is a successful web developer from dallas, texas and one of the writers of wefollowtech.com. he is twenty three years old, and when he isn’t working on some interesting new article, he enjoys listening to music and watching old movies comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in mobile 3 simple ways to spy on someone’s text messages without their phone there are unlimited ways to spy on someone’s text messages without having their phone... how to track text messages on cell phone here's everything you need to know. starlands: could more brands follow starbucks into mobile gaming? when such figures are considered, it quickly becomes understandable why starbucks has chosen to... the best new ios and android games to download in march 2020 why use your phone for work when you can use it for games? tips for buying your teen their first cell phone consider your child's maturity and responsibility when making any decisions about phones. mobile gaming and the gaming industry there is no stopping the growth of this industry, but what are the advantages... google is releasing a new pixel features drop (12 of them) – here’s what they are new emoji, ar features, and more. huawei is back with a new ipad pro competitor and folding phone without access to the google play store, will people be interested? yup, apple is definitely slowing down your older iphones the greatest features new phones will offer in 2018 home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie