skip to main content thanks for contacting us. we've received your submission. back to reading sections news metro page six sports business opinion entertainment fashion ny post shopping living media tech real estate video photos sub menu 1 covers columnists horoscopes sports odds email newsletters store home delivery sign in search type to search search tips sign up new york post new york post andrea peyser view author archive email the author get author rss feed most popular today 1 woman gets coronavirus after bragging about not social distancing 2 cuomo wonders if coronavirus quarantine may have backfired in some cases 3 shrimp vendor at wuhan market may be coronavirus 'patient zero' 4 'perfectly healthy' dad of 6 dies after coronavirus diagnosis: family 5 bull monty: nude woman straddles wall st. bull amid coronavirus lockdown name(required) email(required) comment(required) submit the archive will #metoo last after harvey weinstein's conviction? february 25, 2020 | 4:43pm and the winner is … #metoo. but will it last? before this week’s conviction of harvey weinstein on sex crimes committed against two women, #metoo was on life support, and... kobe bryant was no rapist february 10, 2020 | 12:42pm kobe bryant, star athlete, adored husband, beloved superdad, was no rapist. that should be the end of it. nothing to see here. sadly, in this #metoo era, it isn’t. so... far-left agitprop for pre-k tots: what nyc schools have come to january 27, 2020 | 7:21pm what are they teaching in new york city preschools? at one taxpayer-funded brooklyn nursery, it isn’t numbers, letters or nap time — but racism and victimhood, plus transgender and “queer’’... prince harry and meghan's megxit was the right call january 13, 2020 | 11:19am i have one bit of advice for the regal rebels: run away, you two. run for your lives! since last week’s earth-shaking, palace-obliterating, queen-dissing megxit rebellion, self-described “senior” royals prince... go ahead and admit it -- 'the irishman' is terrible december 3, 2019 | 1:17pm there are two kinds of people in this world: first, those who think “the irishman” — the martin scorsese-directed, al pacino/robert de niro/joe pesci-starring, mega-mob opera released last week on... america is tripping over donald trump and dance dunce sean spicer november 5, 2019 | 10:09pm america has voted. and the winner is … donald trump. i’m not referring to the 2020 presidential election (not yet), but to the 28th and weirdest, wackiest season of the... beautiful gesture by mets slugger pete alonso to honor 9/11 heroes september 30, 2019 | 4:18pm what a beautiful gesture by an amazin’ guy. a small act of defiance by mets super-slugger pete alonso, destined to be named national league rookie of the year, brings him... felicity huffman's slap on the wrist is a disgrace september 13, 2019 | 5:35pm there is no justice. not when the rich and the powerful, the amoral and the sleazy — liars, cheats and unspeakably entitled thieves of anything and everything they can snatch... don’t buy felicity huffman’s pathetic excuses september 9, 2019 | 8:19pm oh, boo-hoo! desperate actress felicity huffman is to face the music friday, and not a moment too soon. a federal judge in boston is set to sentence the emmy-winning, golden... epstein’s death puts 'randy prince andy' in a royal pickle august 14, 2019 | 10:02pm britain’s prince andrew — who allegedly earned his rhyming nickname, randy andy, for his energetic bedroom calisthenics — is in a royal pickle. a friend of the late convicted pedophile... see more stories trending now on nypost.com this story has been shared 220,675 times. 220,675 woman gets coronavirus after bragging about not social distancing this story has been shared 175,607 times. 175,607 disturbing video shows the real coronavirus crisis in nyc hospital this story has been shared 108,456 times. 108,456 shrimp vendor at wuhan market may be coronavirus 'patient zero' now on now on page six tom hanks and rita wilson return to the us after recovering from coronavirus tom hanks and rita wilson return to the us after recovering from coronavirus hamptons seek travel ban on corona-fleeing new yorkers from cuomo hamptons seek travel ban on corona-fleeing new yorkers from cuomo newly released video shows alec baldwin’s parking spot fight newly released video shows alec baldwin’s parking spot fight celebrity-loved bag brand paravel donating proceeds to coronavirus relief celebrity-loved bag brand paravel donating proceeds to coronavirus relief ‘glee’ actor max adler details having a baby amid coronavirus pandemic ‘glee’ actor max adler details having a baby amid coronavirus pandemic abbey road crosswalk finally gets a paint job during corona shutdown abbey road crosswalk finally gets a paint job during corona shutdown see all new york post facebook twitter instagram linkedin messenger email youtube email newsletters mobile apps contact us tips facebook twitter instagram linkedin messenger email youtube sections & features news tech metro real estate page six video sports photos business alexa opinion covers entertainment horoscopes fashion ny post shopping sports odds living classifieds media newsletters & more email newsletters rss feeds store post headliners home delivery subscribe manage subscription delivery help help/support customer service app faq & help contact us tips newsroom letters to the editor reprints careers apps iphone app ipad app android phone android tablet advertise media kit contact post digital network page six page six style decider © 2020 nyp holdings, inc. all rights reserved terms of use privacy notice your ad choices sitemap california privacy rights do not sell my personal information new york post would you like to receive desktop browser notifications about breaking news and other major stories? not now yes please