news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check now, if it could only help with all of my other terrible habits. by josiah motley march 25, 2020 image: josiah motley / knowtechie there are a lot of things to love about animal crossing: new horizons – the extremely chill gameplay, the overly cute animals, the design aspects for your home and clothing. even just running around and exploring your own island is calming in a way that is hard to explain. it is an especially welcome reprieve during these confusing and scary times. one side effect i didn’t expect when starting my journey on stardew island (not to be confused with my other love, stardew valley) was an improved sleep schedule. but here we are, well-rested and full of life at 4:20 (nice) in the afternoon. normally, by this time i would be injecting day-old coffee into my veins, searching desperately for just an ounce of energy. but not today. or yesterday or even the day before yesterday and i have new horizons to thank for that. you see, animal crossing matches your game time to your real life, so if you normally play the game late at night, you’ll be missing out on certain things, like the local shop being open. sure, you could technically time travel, but, in this house, we play the game without it. it can be a bit of a bummer, but i’ve gamed the system. i’ve started going to bed at a reasonable hour. take that, ya bish (time). that means i can be up in the mornings before starting my working day and enjoy a nice hour or so on my island, in the sunlight and while nook’s cranny is open. because i’m sure as heck not using the drop-off box that takes twenty percent of my profits. nope. so, alongside a flourishing economy full of fruit trees and adorable animals, i am now also well-rested and ready to deal with whatever bs kevin throws at me during the day. what do you think? enjoying the latest animal crossing title? let us know down below in the comments or carry the discussion over to our twitter or facebook. editors’ recommendations: i’m taking a half-day off from work just so i can play animal crossing without any interruptions review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right call of duty: warzone boasts 30 million players in 10 days here’s why stardew valley is better than harvest moon just a heads up, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the sale. click here for more. related topicsanimal crossinggametechienew horizonsnewsstardew valley josiah motley managing editor with a focus on all things tech and gaming. life adventurer. i only tweet about kevin and curtis @josiah_motley comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in #gametechie with more gamers online, sony and microsoft are looking at ways to deal with increased demands i'm still going to blame lag when i lose in rocket league. the 10 best vr headsets in 2020 if you're looking to make the jump into the world vr headsets, this is... the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times if you are looking for some mobile games to help you relax, start here. most played online video games in 2020 these are the games players can't get enough of in 2020. what effect has the coronavirus had on the gaming industry? a whole lot apparently. the mini game – an expression of appreciation mini-games can increase our enjoyment of video games considerably. in effect, they’re additional games... review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right well, time to make my pc vr-ready, it seems. the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine not sure what to play through microsoft's xcloud game streaming service? start here. with more gamers online, sony and microsoft are looking at ways to deal with increased demands home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie