ann coulter - official home page home my life book a speech links forum follow me on twitter archives how do we flatten the curve on panic? march 25, 2020 if, as the evidence suggests, the chinese virus is enormously dangerous to people with certain medical conditions and those over 70 years old, but a much smaller danger to those under 70, then shutting down the entire country indefinitely is probably a bad idea. but even when the time is right -- by easter, june or the fall -- there will be no one to stop the quarantine because the media will continue to hype every coronavirus death, as if these are the only deaths that count and the only deaths that were preventable. what mayor, governor or president will be willing to take the blame for causing a coronavirus death? we’ll get no breaking news alerts for the regular flu deaths (so far this season, more than 23,000, compared to 533 from the coronavirus). nor for the more than 3,000 people who die every day of heart disease or cancer. no alerts for the hundreds who die each day from car accidents, illegal aliens and suicide. only coronavirus deaths are considered newsworthy. we’re told by the “quarantine everybody” crowd: listen to the scientists! unfortunately, most of the “scientists” they present to us are lawyers. (how did robert reich, donna shalala and ron klain become medical professionals?) also, the scientists disagree. just as, i assume, they did in 1976, when epidemiologists warned of another 1918 spanish flu pandemic after a few young army recruits died of swine flu at fort dix in new jersey. eight months later, the federal government launched a mandatory swine flu vaccination program. about a quarter of the country was vaccinated before the program was abruptly shut down. no pandemic had materialized. the virus infected a few people, then vanished. but directly as a result of receiving the vaccine, dozens of americans died and several hundred acquired guillain-barre syndrome. the scientists also disagreed in the 1980s, when the media and government went into overdrive to scare us all about aids. (1985 life magazine cover: "now, no one is safe from aids.”) read more » never trust a liberal over three-especially a republican is available online: amazon.com mugged is available for order online: amazon.com barnes & noble indiebound books a million demonic available online: amazon.com barnes & noble borders powells tweets by @anncoulter december 9, 2018, 2:18 pm jorge ramos doing a job americans just won't do! - video: ann coulter debates jorge ramos on immigration - fusion tv (may 26th 2015) december 6, 2018, 10:29 pm liberal mickey kaus on 'adios, america!' - "ann coulter and donald trump walk into … : i wasn’t entirely happy when i learned my friend ann coulter’s new book was going to be 100% about immigration. not because i feared she’d hurt the cause of immigration control — a defensive battle our side has been winning, so far, despite a concerted push by the entire democratic party, half the republican party, half (secretly) of the politicians who claim to represent the other half of the republican party, virtually the entire press (including fox), virtually all of business, and virtually all big money political donors (including the kochs!). it’s just that i’d found my own comfortable, sincere dogma on the subject, and i worried that she’d upset it, which is what she tends to do. ..." kausfiles: coulter’s challenge december 6, 2018, 10:15 pm david frum on "adios, america!" in the atlantic - "until this very year, trump’s few sparse comments on immigration fell neatly within the elite consensus. ... "what seems to have changed trump’s mind is a book: adios america by ann coulter. the phrase 'political book of the year' is a usually an empty compliment, but if the phrase ever described any book, adios america is it. in its pages, trump found the message that would convulse the republican primary and upend the dynastic hopes of former-frontrunner jeb bush. perhaps no single writer has had such immediate impact on a presidential election since harriet beecher stowe. -- the atlantic: america's immigration challenge