content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip author: ann gynn ann gynn edits the cmi blog. she also serves as the tech tools editor for chief content officer magazine. ann regularly combines words and strategy for b2b, b2c, and nonprofits, continuing to live up to her high school nickname, editor ann. former college adjunct faculty, ann also helps train professionals in content so they can do it themselves. follow ann on twitter @anngynn or connect on linkedin. company news by ann-gynn published march 23, 2020 get an a for accuracy with this fact-checking content checklist let’s make this simple. factually wrong content is bad. accurate content is a necessity. whether you’re a content creator or editor, use this checklist to help ensure that your content won’t spread misinformation and need to be debunked. and so your audience can trust your content. continue reading company news by ann-gynn published march 17, 2020 should the news disrupt your content calendar? here’s how to decide editor’s note: you can follow this process during a pandemic like covid-19 that affects nearly everyone. it’s also helpful when the impact of a news story isn’t as clear. your editorial calendar looks perfect. your content team has done everything right. each week’s theme aligns with your brand’s content marketing strategy. each day includes topics that will engage your audience in formats they want. the upcoming month’s content is ready to go – approved by all the necessary stakeholders. continue reading company news by ann-gynn published march 12, 2020 successful ghostwriting demands collaboration, not magic ghostwriters are like introverted ventriloquists. they never appear on stage, but they speak for another when they write the content published under another individual’s byline or brand name. ghostwriting takes the writing process to the next level – it amplifies the value of some standard research and planning practices and adds a few more steps to walk in another’s “shoes.” and the writer doesn’t get the credit publicly. “ghostwriting is a selfless job,” says aisha ahmed, editorial coordinator at healthy links. continue reading company news by ann-gynn published march 3, 2020 you can write faster with this guide when you’re paid to write, you can’t afford to take hours to craft the perfect piece or luxuriate for weeks waiting for inspiration to strike. you’re facing deadlines. you have multiple pieces to write. maybe you’re just sick of the assignment taking so long. continue reading company news by ann-gynn published february 13, 2020 brand storytelling gets a rose from the bachelor [and 2 more tv partnership examples] let’s play a game. match the numbered brand with the lettered media property below. (1) nascar (2) ancestry (3) destination cleveland (a) the bachelor (b) the crew (c) who do you think you are? continue reading company news by ann-gynn published january 29, 2020 how to get valuable external content sources to be seen as a valuable information resource – not a product-hawking brand – treat your content marketing like a media outlet. the first step? use more than your corporate in-house voices (i.e., the ones paid by your company) in your content. continue reading company news by ann-gynn published january 23, 2020 how to do diverse and inclusive content marketing that matters a content marketer searches for a stock image to accompany a blog post titled the top 10 business lessons every young professional in our industry should know. the first result for “business” appears: continue reading company news by ann-gynn published january 13, 2020 curate the ultimate content marketing library with these 51 book picks you can’t judge a book by its cover. you can judge it based on the recommendations of your peers. here’s some help to build a great shelf of books (physically or digitally) to improve your content marketing skills, expand your marketing prowess, and gain inspiration to make your work more manageable and effective. continue reading company news by ann-gynn published december 23, 2019 6 b2b brands that put the creative in their content marketing [examples] valuing creativity makes a marked difference in b2b content marketing success. cmi’s 2020 research shows that 92% of the most successful b2b content marketers say their organization values creativity and craft in content creation and production. continue reading company news by ann-gynn published december 19, 2019 look inside the idea garage for 8 fresh b2c examples when you find a fresh or innovative example of content marketing, what do you do? i bookmark the page and visit it when my creative ideas have dried up. but natalya minkovsky, a washington, d.c.-based content strategist, drives those great content marketing examples into the idea garage at chief content officer. now, we’re opening the door to reveal the innovative b2c examples she shared in 2019. (feel free to bookmark this page for one-stop inspiration in 2020.) continue reading 1 2 3 … 11 next page » connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree