home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum posts by tag anne-marie 15 posts have a read the briefing never doubt the sharpness of anne-marie's marketing mind everyone has a birthday. have a read the briefing three's a trend: remember the old days? anne-marie, prettymuch and naughty boy are all referencing 2000s songs in their new singles. what could it all mean? (not much) have a read videos anne-marie — 'ciao adios' have a read the briefing new music friday: katy perry, a crap cover of an another level single, and the songs in between plus new stuff from sigrid, shaima, dagny and anne-marie... have a read the briefing anne-marie's only gone and done it her new single, 'ciao adios', certainly 'hits' the 'spot'. have a read the news dua lipa and anne-marie have been nominated for the brits critics' choice thing rag'n'bone man is also on the list :/ have a read the briefing brace yourself: clean bandit, sean paul and anne-marie have invented something quite spectacular 'rockabye' is an extremely massive pop single. have a read the briefing the week's best new releases: broods, m.o, ariana and more all in all, a 6/10 sort of week. have a read videos anne-marie — 'do it right' have a read videos anne-marie — 'boy' welcome to popjustice, a glorified pop blog celebrating 21st century pop, the people who make it, and the people who make the people who make it. more outlook for march 26: you are advised to stay indoors until duageddon passes physical by dua lipa is the biggest song right now for what it's worth apple music's most streamed song is rain (feat. tay keith) - aitch & aj tracey the best popstar is currently dua lipa and that's that 4 years, 1 month, 30 days since the last rihanna album pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits a variety of papier mache britney spears heads olly alexander interview: "i'm a convincingly happy human being" alison goldfrapp interview: "i feel good about this" further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled