skip to main content start reading the article jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow about the author rachel andrew is not only editor in chief of smashing magazine, but also a web developer, writer and speaker. she is the author of a number of books, including … more about rachel andrew … march 23, 2020 leave a comment announcing smashing online workshops 3 min read smashingconf, conferences, events share on twitter or linkedin with so many people — including our workshop leaders — working from home, we thought we would bring our smashing workshops from our home offices to yours. we had to postpone our smashingconf in san francisco until 10th–11th november 2020 and, like so many of you, our team will be staying firmly put at home for the next month or more. however, we know that many of you are still hoping to develop your skills, and we had workshops ready to go. we decided to find a way to bring the workshops to your home office, trying to keep as much of the live experience as possible. so, meet smashing online workshops. remote, live, interactive and practical. that’s smashing workshops. we have two workshops to announce today, and if there is demand, we hope to be able to bring you more of the workshops you might be missing from our live events. by doing so, we hope we can help you continue to learn and interact with the speakers and each other, and also help out our workshop leaders who are losing income by being unable to run their workshops in person right now. upcoming workshops apr 2–17, thu & fri, 9–11:30 am pdt smart interface design patterns with vitaly friedman. you’ll study 100s of hand-picked interface design examples in this one. we’ll be designing interfaces together, starting from accordions, to mega-drop-downs, sliders, feature comparisons, car configurators — all the way to timelines and onboarding. and: we’ll be reviewing and providing feedback to each other’s work. this workshop is spread over five days, 2h each day, with a huge amount to learn and take away. apr 14–15, tue & wed, 9–11:30 am pdt css layout masterclass with rachel andrew. over two days learn the key skills you need to learn css layout and put it into practice in your work. a mix of theory and pragmatic advice in terms of how to deal with browser support. your questions answered we know that a big reason why people come to smashing workshops is the chance to ask questions of the expert, and perhaps have a sticky issue they are facing at work discussed in person. it’s certainly one of the reasons i love leading workshops. every time i teach css in-person, i learn more about the ways people are using css, and the challenges you face. so each workshop has dedicated time for chat and q&a. we hope that you’ll bring your questions and ideas to the room, talk with us in the workshop, and learn from your peers, too. join us we hope you’ll join us as we bring our workshops online, there is some special early bird pricing for the initial registrations. we’d also love to know which other workshop topics and speakers you would like to see online. read more about the workshops and sign up here. (vf) browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top