related blogs antiviral art the best restaurant in new york blackbag defamer disputations documents dodgeandburn dog domesticity drugs fine vining fortress america frenchgawker weird internet interviews justice morning after phasezero politburo rankings gawker review of books sausage slowgawker sony hack one man's take the cuck themachines the vane the west tktk true stories valleywag model who became a plastic surgery meme says it ruined her life, doesn't really have ugly kids jay hathaway · 11/06/15 11:24am there’s a persistent urban legend—it’s been around since at least 2004—about a chinese woman who’d had plastic surgery, unbeknownst to her husband. her secret was allegedly revealed after she gave birth to “ugly” children who didn’t look anything like her, and the couple divorced over the incident. the story has been debunked numerous times, but not before it wrecked the life of one actual taiwanese model. drunk navy guy didn't really use a raccoon to trick his car's breathalyzer jay hathaway · 10/01/15 12:58pm idiots everywhere were taken in over the weekend by the irresistible story of a navy petty officer who was too drunk to turn off the anti-dui system on his car, so he grabbed a raccoon from a nearby park and squeezed some of its tiny, feral breath into the breathalyzer. the car started, according to the incident report, and the raccoon, rendered unconscious by the navy man’s grip, lay on the vehicle’s floor. of course the raccoon woke up, and of course it attacked the drunken driver, causing him to careen into a fence and end up in an in-ground swimming pool. r.e.m. told trump to fuck himself, but their alleged lawsuit against him is a hoax jay hathaway · 09/18/15 11:45am r.e.m.’s michael stipe was disappointed to learn last week that gas-filled rotting pumpkin donald trump has been playing the band’s “it’s the end of the world as we know it” at his campaign events. stipe quickly requested that trump cease using r.e.m.’s music and also go fuck himself, and several news outlets reported that the band was suing the donald and ted “cohiba” cruz for $2.5 million for unauthorized use of the song. in reality, there is no such lawsuit. forward or delete: this week's fake viral photos hudson hongo · 08/14/15 03:35pm occasionally, against all odds, you’ll see an interesting or even enjoyable picture on the internet. but is it worth sharing, or just another photoshop job that belongs in the digital trash heap? check in here and find out if that viral photo deserves an enthusiastic “forward” or a pitiless “delete.” forward or delete: this week's fake viral photos hudson hongo · 08/07/15 01:30pm occasionally, against all odds, you’ll see an interesting or even enjoyable picture on the internet. but is it worth sharing, or just another photoshop job that belongs in the digital trash heap? check in here and find out if that viral photo deserves an enthusiastic “forward” or a pitiless “delete.” forward or delete: this week's fake viral photos hudson hongo · 07/31/15 02:00pm occasionally, against all odds, you’ll see an interesting or even enjoyable picture on the internet. but is it worth sharing, or just another photoshop job that belongs in the digital trash heap? check in here and find out if that viral photo deserves an enthusiastic “forward” or a pitiless “delete.” forward or delete: this week's fake viral photos hudson hongo · 07/17/15 03:15pm occasionally, against all odds, you’ll see an interesting or even enjoyable picture on the internet. but is it worth sharing, or just another photoshop job that belongs in the digital trash heap? check in here and find out if that viral photo deserves an enthusiastic “forward” or a pitiless “delete.” this woman's big fake butt did not explode jay hathaway · 07/15/15 10:05am a woman’s butt implants exploded while she was doing squats at the gym for an instagram workout video, hoping to become the next jen selter, according to news 4 san antonio, cosmopolitan, and several other sites. she’s now in a coma, with damage to several internal organs. but is she really? forward or delete: this week's fake viral photos hudson hongo · 07/10/15 03:20pm occasionally, against all odds, you’ll see an interesting or even enjoyable picture on the internet. but is it worth sharing, or just another photoshop job that belongs in the digital trash heap? check in here and find out if that viral photo deserves an enthusiastic “forward” or a pitiless “delete.” jay z and beyonce, black people, not "buying rights" to racist emblem jay hathaway · 07/08/15 11:00am in the aftermath of the mass shooting that killed nine in charleston, s.c., the confederate battle flag has come under fire as a symbol of shooter dylann roof’s racist ideology. and what’s better than taking down a racist symbol? how about one of the richest, most prominent black couples in america buying the rights to the flag so one can ever use it again? forward or delete: this week's fake viral photos hudson hongo · 06/26/15 01:45pm occasionally, against all odds, you’ll see an interesting or even enjoyable picture on the internet. but is it worth sharing, or just another photoshop job that belongs in the digital trash heap? check in here and find out if that viral photo deserves an enthusiastic “forward” or a pitiless “delete.” forward or delete: this week's fake viral photos hudson hongo · 06/05/15 03:15pm occasionally, against all odds, you’ll see an interesting or even enjoyable picture on the internet. but is it worth sharing, or just another photoshop job that belongs in the digital trash heap? check in here and find out if that viral photo deserves an enthusiastic “forward” or a pitiless “delete.” forward or delete: this week's fake viral photos hudson hongo · 05/29/15 01:30pm occasionally, against all odds, you’ll see an interesting or even enjoyable picture on the internet. but is it worth sharing, or just another photoshop job that belongs in the digital trash heap? check in here and find out if that viral photo deserves an enthusiastic “forward” or a pitiless “delete.” forward or delete: this week's fake viral photos hudson hongo · 05/15/15 03:00pm occasionally, against all odds, you’ll see an interesting or even enjoyable picture on the internet. but is it worth sharing, or just another photoshop job that belongs in the digital trash heap? check in here and find out if that viral photo deserves an enthusiastic “forward” or a pitiless “delete.” forward or delete: this week's fake viral photos hudson hongo · 05/08/15 02:30pm occasionally, against all odds, you’ll see an interesting or even enjoyable picture on the internet. but is it worth sharing, or just another photoshop job that belongs in the digital trash heap? check in here and find out if that viral photo deserves an enthusiastic “forward” or a pitiless “delete.” d.a.r.e. suckered by fake story about deadly weed gummies jay hathaway · 05/05/15 12:25pm d.a.r.e., the ineffective anti-drug program you barely remember from elementary school, is still around, and still warning kids of the dangers of taking any drug in any amount ever. especially a new and deadly marijuana gummy that was completely made up by a fake news site whose story d.a.r.e. republished in its entirety. forward or delete: this week's fake baltimore photos hudson hongo · 05/01/15 03:15pm occasionally, against all odds, you’ll see an interesting or even enjoyable picture on the internet. but probably not this week. here are the fake viral baltimore photos that deserve nothing more than a pitiless “delete.” forward or delete: this week's fake viral photos hudson hongo · 04/24/15 02:45pm occasionally, against all odds, you’ll see an interesting or even enjoyable picture on the internet. but is it worth sharing, or just another photoshop job that belongs in the digital trash heap? check in here and find out if that viral photo deserves an enthusiastic “forward” or a pitiless “delete.” food blogger famous for curing her own cancer admits she was never sick jay hathaway · 04/22/15 01:20pm a popular australian food blogger who claimed she beat terminal cancer through healthy eating—and used that backstory to sell a popular cookbook and app—now admits “none of it’s true.” belle gibson, creator of the whole pantry, came clean this week after journalists and investigators began to unravel her story. sadly, that princess di beanie baby is worth jack shit jay hathaway · 04/21/15 01:05pm some unexpected news in the world of beanie baby collecting this week gave ‘90s kidults hope that the stuffed animals they hoarded years ago might be good for something other than burying in a time capsule alongside pogs, gak™, and a “waterfalls” cassingle. next page terms of service privacy policy