skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides anti-valentine’s day and ugghhh we’re cute posted on feb 14, 2020 posted in: random musings, steal this idea people are always surprised when i tell them rand and i don’t really celebrate valentine’s day. i mean, we used to. but dear lord, it was always so, so much, and it always felt a little weird and uncomfortable and forced, even if it lead to some of my favorite photos, ever: our first valentine’s day together, in 2002, and my god we were babies. babies. 2003, back when little hearts would pop out of his head whenever i kissed him and thank god he saw the doctor for that. 2006, and rocking the mid-aughts fashion here. (i wish y’all could see the belt i’m wearing in this photo. it’s ridiculous.) but it was always so expensive to go out, and it felt fraught with pressure, like we had to have fun on that day. we stopped years ago. i can’t remember the exact nail in the coffin, but it might have been after the couple at the table adjacent to us ended their marriage in angry stage whispers while we tried to pretended we couldn’t hear them, cutting into a steak we couldn’t afford. after that, we started going out in the days that followed, usually on february 15th, which we started calling boxingtine’s day. the restaurants were empty, the staff seemed so relieved that it was all over, and we’d enjoy a quiet dinner together. it meant, of course, that we needed a new tradition for the 14th, and somehow, anti-valentine’s day was born. it’s grown in scope over the years, become a weird sort of thing that we do. some years it’s just the two of us, or we’ll invite a few friends over who’ve also been with their partners since god was boy, and have no desire to venture out into crowded restaurants. the rules, should you wish to observe anti-valentine’s day yourself, are fairly straightforward: do not make reservations. do not buy chocolates. or flowers. or gifts of any kind. invite some people over, because dear god, it can’t just be the two of you. if things start getting too romantic, scream, “booooooo!!!!” loudly at the offending party. tell mortifying stories about the romantic misfortunes of your youth. wear giant underwear. it’s not that i don’t enjoy celebrating love. i do. i mean, come on. this is me we’re talking about. heck, this year we were even in seattle magazine – we were profiled for being adorable and in love. ugh, i know. it’s awful and obnoxious. just look: still, i hate the idea that i’m supposed to celebrate love in the middle of february (the least sexily named month, with the exception of maybe march) instead of any time i damn well please. so instead, we do our weird little tradition. and i get to wear my comfy underwear. and it works just perfectly for us. share this post facebook twitter tags anti-valentine's day, valentine's day never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: post navigation previous post next post leave a comment more from the blog a seattle germaphobe in the time of coronavirus posted on: mar 12, 2020 read more i tried making mike bloomberg’s meatball recipe and it doesn’t make sense posted on: feb 24, 2020 read more why aren’t you blogging, and other hard questions posted on: feb 13, 2020 read more view posts by category... "lifestyle" 24 hours advice air travel ask the everywhereist attractions awesome book city guide complaint letters cupcake death match dialogues dick move events festivals food food porn friday geological marvels guest posts hotels infographics life at home life in the rest of the world local color lost in translation loving the entrepreneur mondays with mindy museums nothing to do with travel packing paris parks personal essay photos polls products random musings rants and raves restaurant round-up restaurants road trips s.t.i.n.k.s scams shopping shows site news sites somewhat useful info steal this idea stories the week in travel top ten tuesday reverie uncategorized why i travel writing wtf wtf wednesdays view archives facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.