editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. prime / member exclusives appeals court upholds five-year sentence in high-profile election violation case voting rights primer by tierney sneed | march 23, 2020 11:51 a.m. crystal mason loses her appeal. a texas state appeals court upheld the draconian five-year prison sentence handed down against a black women who violated texas election law by voting while she was on a probation. the case of crystal mason attracted national attention, given the unprecedented nature of the prosecution and the belief by some that her punishment would have a chilling effect on voting in the state. her appeal was supported by the aclu and she had argued her sentence should be thrown out because she was unaware that her probation made her ineligible to vote. but the court ruled friday that her awareness of her ineligibility was irrelevant to the prosecution. members-only article already a member? sign in to access exclusive analysis and reporting from tpm’s award-winning staff along with: the hive member forum members-only newsletter exclusive rss feeds commenting prime $4.99/mo $1 / first month access to member exclusives and fewer ads join for $1 prime ad free $9.99/mo $1 / first month access to member exclusives and no ads join for $1 view all options masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy