engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits the surveillance profiteers of covid-19 are here google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks latest in gear ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits 19m ago view the surveillance profiteers of covid-19 are here 1h ago view google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks 1h ago view this week's best deals: sony headphones, surface pro 7 and more 2h ago view image credit: apple unveils its own covid-19 screening app and website the more testing resources the better. devindra hardawar, @devindra 3h ago comments 66 shares share tweet share sponsored links apple because you can never have too many testing resources during an unprecedented global pandemic, apple has introduced a new app and website for screening covid-19 symptoms. developed together with the cdc, both tools step you through a series of questions related to the coronavirus to figure out the best course of action. sure, it's all the same advice you'd see directly from the cdc, or from apple's own siri, amazon's alexa, and alphabet's verily, but it certainly doesn't hurt to have more resources out there. especially when these latest tools have the extra ui polish you'd expect from apple. in this article: apple, coronavirus, covid-10, gear, medicine all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments 66 shares share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr