home our story visit us cookies policy terms of website use brochure request contact login quick order register make apple juice view all watch our juice making video! quick guide pick a press! crushing how to crush apples crushers pressing how to press apple pomace presses pressing other fruits storing apple juice how to preserve apple juice stainless steel digital pasteuriser stainless steel pasteuriser tell apples are ripe make cider view all quick guide what you'll need... crushing how to crush apples crushers pressing how to press apple pomace presses pressing other fruits fermentation how to ferment apple juice cider making kits fermenters pasteurising sweetened cider how to pasteurise sweetened cider pasteurisers storing cider how to store cider bag and boxes & bottles common cider making questions! cider storage 5 litre bag-in-boxes (pack of 5) 10 litre bag-in-boxes (pack of 5) 20 litre bag-in-boxes (pack of 5) bag-in-box filling support frame with tap closing tool replacement 5 litre bags (pack of 10) replacement 10 litre bags (pack of 10) replacement 20 litre bags (pack of 5) 2.25 gallon white barrel with black vent cap 5 gallon white plastic barrel with black vent cap boxed set of 24 clear 500ml cider/beer bottles 2 nozzle bottle filler bottle brush bottle rinser 48 bottle drainer tree 80 bottle drainer tree drill pump tube support rod braided plastic tube 3/4” ø (5m) syphon tube – standard bag in box dispenser cw novax 20 m pump cider storage 5 litre bag-in-boxes (pack of 5) 10 litre bag-in-boxes (pack of 5) 20 litre bag-in-boxes (pack of 5) bag-in-box filling support frame with tap closing tool replacement 5 litre bags (pack of 10) replacement 10 litre bags (pack of 10) replacement 20 litre bags (pack of 5) 2.25 gallon white barrel with black vent cap 5 gallon white plastic barrel with black vent cap boxed set of 24 clear 500ml cider/beer bottles 2 nozzle bottle filler bottle brush bottle rinser 48 bottle drainer tree 80 bottle drainer tree drill pump tube support rod braided plastic tube 3/4” ø (5m) syphon tube – standard bag in box dispenser cw novax 20 m pump create cordials view all how to make cordials steamers mehu liisa fruit & veg steamer juice extractor top for pasteuriser make jellies view all how to make jellies steamers mehu liisa fruit & veg steamer juice extractor top for pasteuriser bottle fruit view all how to bottle fruit pasteurisers stainless steel digital pasteuriser stainless steel pasteuriser dry fruit & veg view all how to dry fruit & vegetables drier fruit & vegetable drier/dehydrator request a brochure here » our products crushers hand crushers electric mills grape crushing fruit presses crusher and press combos fermentation and storage plastic and glass containers demi-johns fermentation buckets with lids 12- 30 litres 60-500 litres speidel fermentation eggs barrels stainless steel fermentation containers variable capacity stainless steel tanks storage tank fd pressure containers taps, caps and bungs fermentation sundries pumps and tubing pumps tubing pump and tubing accessories syphons taps filtration bottling and packaging bag in box bottles milk bottles beer & cider bottles champagne bottles mineral bottles spirit bottles hdpe jerricans barrels caps and closures screw caps crown caps aluminium pre threaded screw cap ropp caps pvc shrink capsules for mca2 capped bottles cappers and corkers corks and cages bottle and bag filling sundries bottle packaging pasteurisers bottle labelling labels hand labellers semi automatic labellers steaming, drying and de-stoning equipment steam juice extractor fruit and vegetable drier testing instruments yeast and chemicals yeasts and nutrients acidity balancing sweeteners preservatives and stabilisers keeving cleaning sundries straining bags pressing sundries funnels juice, cider, wine and elderflower kits apple juice kits cider making kits wine making kits elderflower cordial kit mangrove jacks - craft pouches mulling spices orchard management orchard ladder fruit picking pest control flying insects crawling insects bird control rodent control moles pruning saws and knives bottling and packaging bag in box bottles hdpe jerricans barrels caps and closures bottle and bag filling sundries bottle packaging distilling stills kits books yeasts botanicals books cider, apple juice and perry celebrating apples and orchards preserving care for your garden self-sufficiency distilling vinegar making juicing and cider making courses our apple juice and ciders our ciders brewing grainfather brewing system brewing kettles fermenting chemicals and yeast yeasts and nutrients sweeteners cleaning acidity balancing testing equipment kombucha dairy and bread making cheese making kits yogurt butter making cream separator cheese, yogurt, juice and milk pasteurisers bread making vegan chocolate juice and strain spares pulpmaster economy crusher crusher a fruit shark vigo presses stainless steel mill speidel mill 4.5 litre press 9 litre press 12 litre cross beam press 12 litre stainless steel press 20 litre press 36 litre press rack and cloth press hydropress spares 20, 40 and 90 litre copper pot still pasterurisers containers syphon fillers pest control rinsekit speaqua products gift vouchers useful information past blogs bramley apple week top tips for pairing cider with food apple day what are the best apples used for cider making? apple harvest must haves how to care for your fruit trees this winter our top 5 winter warmer cider recipies what is apple wassailing a history of cider making our top cordial recipes our best products for cider making how to make the perfect fruit jellies why pasteurisation is important during cider making a guide to creating elderberry wine at home benefits of apple cider vinegar how to make delicious dry fruit and vegetable snacks what fruits can i use for cidermaking what is a hydrometer used for and do i need one? how to select the best fruit for jam/jellies our top 5 gifts for cider lovers how to know if your cider has gone bad preservation of pear juice & the uses of malic/citric acid kernowek bevvies try these apple recipes how to prune your fruit trees useful links orchard & community groups more about fruit fruit tree suppliers apple juice, cider & wine making courses societies & organisations wassailing events 2020 cider competitions 2020 more fruit-related guides 10 good reasons to make apple juice & cider stinging nettles and your orchard how to store your apples how do i preserve my apple juice? common cider making questions! 'juices as tasty as wine' from kitchen garden magazine 'get juicing!' feature in grow your own magazine try drying! vigo harvesting products tested by grow your own magazine 'hot off the press!' from grow your own magazine vigo preserving products tested by grow your own magazine try bottling fruit! elderflower cordial 10 top tips on planting apple trees! is my cider ready to drink? ann somerset miles’ guide to making cider, wine & apple juice in organic gardening magazine help! i've acquired an orchard! recipes apple based cider based cordial based juice based using our presses using the steamer using the drier using the pasteuriser try this! past blogs vinegar apple days & community juicing! setting up a community group - where to start! why run an apple day? what will you need? safety apple fun! promoting your day! case studies how to shop delivery exports payment terms, privacy & cookies terms & conditions - buying from this website (retail customers) terms & conditions - buying from this website (trade buyers) terms & conditions - vouchers terms & conditions - promotional codes privacy policy cookies policy terms of website use terms & conditions - buying from our printed catalogue or by phone (retail customers) terms & conditions - buying from our printed catalogue or by phone (trade buyers) alcohol policy what makes us special best sellers ... botanicals use these botanicals to make any kind of gin you want - they'll work by simply infusing them in more › bottles glass bottles in green or clear for juice, or cider. more › stainless steel pasteuriser a high quality, robust auto cooker / pasteuriser suitable for juice pasteurisation and jar more › classic fruit crusher this crusher is very easy to use and so popular with our customers that we have sold it for over more › 12 litre press and crusher a combo our best-selling combination of the easy to use more › vigo stainless steel electric 1.5kw apple mill this all stainless steel electric apple mill makes short work of milling apples and pears, which more › 20 litre press and crusher a combo if you have several mature trees or even a small orchard this is the combination for you. the more › rack & cloth screw fruit press this apple press is at the top end of our hobby range and the start of our commercial range, and more › speidel electric 2.2kw apple mill the most powerful electric mill on the market, this 2.2kw/2.9 hp can mill whole buckets of more › hydropress 90 litre an excellent press for those who have several productive apple trees or grapevines and more › apple pressing & cider making workshop overview visit devon to try the very best of the autumn harvest with a more › pruning more › your basket 0 items (£0.00) | view basket product search events of 2020 we are in the process of planning events for 2020 more › what makes us special 8 reasons why we are the market leader in juicing & more › what our customers say... confirm more › what we do apple presses, cider presses, fruit presses, wine presses, table more › website suggestions help us better our site for your use. more › email newsletter sign up to our newsletter by clicking below. sign up follow us on twitter find us on facebook © 2020 vigo presses ltd | sitemap | powered by shopfront full site | mobile site we have placed cookies on your computer to help make this website better. you can change your cookie settings through your browser at any time. otherwise, we'll assume you're ok to continue. for more information see our cookie policy.