engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget apple airpods pro buy now login the buyer's guide find it, buy it and tell us how you really feel. all phones laptops gaming headphones home theater tablets more photography networking storage reviews / headphones apple airpods pro reviews / headphones apple airpods pro from $249+ $249 buy now share share 87 engadget score an all-around great product that's among the best in its category. you'll almost certainly be happy. 87 an all-around great product that's among the best in its category. you'll almost certainly be happy. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). engadget review the airpods pro are apple’s best true wireless earbuds to date, but they’re also its most expensive. the addition of key features like active noise cancellation, transparency mode, on-board controls and silicone ear tips are all upgrades over the previous two models. despite sony’s wf-1000xm3 outperforming these in terms of audio and noise cancellation, the airpods pro do a decent job with both, and hands-free siri is a key feature sony doesn’t offer. read full review pros improved audio comfortable refined design hands-free siri ipx4 water resistance cons polarizing design awkward touch controls settings buried in ios reviews 89 average critic score critic reviews 10 90 the verge perfect fit the airpods pro still work okay with android phones (noise cancellation and all), but you lose out on all of the nice software touches that really make the airpods so effortless to use. but for everyone carrying an iphone in their pocket, it’s hard to point you in any other direction than the airpods pro — if you’re comfortable spending so much on them, that is. read full review 80 pc mag apple airpods pro review apple's true wireless airpods pro earphones are vastly superior to the standard model, with solid noise cancellation, quality audio performance, and a far better in-ear fit that justifies the extra cost. read full review see all critic reviews 86 average user score user reviews 5 90 accn 02.05.20 the best in its category. we highly recommend it. - engadget read full review 70 cp3 01.27.20 the noise cancelling is very good. the sound quality really isn't very good. anything down low just gets sloppy. they should really let people push updates manually. i've had mine for a week and they... read full review see all reviews specs key specs type earbud channels stereo noise isolation yes active noise cancellation yes connections wireless inline controls yes type channels noise isolation active noise cancellation connections inline controls earbud stereo yes yes wireless yes write a review tip: log in before writing a review step 1: rate and comment on specific criteria sound quality 0 design and form factor 0 comfort 0 noise isolation 0 durability 0 step 2: write a detailed review tips: make sure to include your initial thoughts on using the product, any observations and potentially any issues you might have run into while using it. step 3: finalize your product rating and submit your review we've calculated your overall product rating based on the average of your criteria ratings above. you can adjust this rating by dragging this slider. overall rating 0 login and submit! 87 engadget score an all-around great product that's among the best in its category. you'll almost certainly be happy. 87 an all-around great product that's among the best in its category. you'll almost certainly be happy. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). see all scores scores engadget 87 critic 10 reviews 89 users 5 reviews 86 user reviews 90 accn the best in its category. we highly recommend it. - engadget 70 cp3 the noise cancelling is very good. the sound quality really isn't very good....read more 100 lior great product. very compact and comfortable to use. write a review about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr