engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget apple powerbeats 4 buy now login the buyer's guide find it, buy it and tell us how you really feel. all phones laptops gaming headphones home theater tablets more photography networking storage reviews / headphones apple powerbeats 4 reviews / headphones apple powerbeats 4 from $149.99+ $149.99 buy now share share 84 engadget score there's a lot to like about this in spite of a few flaws. 84 there's a lot to like about this in spite of a few flaws. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). engadget review the wired wireless powerbeats have been completely redesigned to match the powerbeats pro, and that’s definitely a good thing. reliable controls, hands-free siri and great sound quality make these easy to recommend at this price. the over-ear hook design doesn’t have universal appeal, but it works very well for gym rats and runners. read full review pros great audio stellar battery life reliable controls quick pairing hands-free siri cons hook design isn’t for everyone no anc no customization options treble can overpower at times reviews 75 average critic score critic reviews 4 90 the verge reliable wire picking between the powerbeats and powerbeats pro comes down to whether you want the freedom of true wireless earbuds -- and the occasional, annoying bugs that can come with them -- or the longer straight running time of the corded option. there are people (like my runner friend) for whom that extra time could make a difference on an 11- or 12-hour run. but it still comes down to personal preference. read full review 80 gizmodo if you want earbuds with a cord, the powerbeats 4 are the ones the new powerbeats are fine. for the person who prefers a cord, wants a stable fit, and likes the beats brand, which ensures a smooth pairing to an iphone with apple’s built-in h1 chip, these earbuds are worth buying—and the price is right. read full review see all critic reviews 0 average user score user reviews 0 see all reviews specs key specs type earbud channels stereo drivers per ear 1 connections wireless type channels drivers per ear connections earbud stereo 1 wireless write a review tip: log in before writing a review step 1: rate and comment on specific criteria sound quality 0 design and form factor 0 comfort 0 noise isolation 0 durability 0 step 2: write a detailed review tips: make sure to include your initial thoughts on using the product, any observations and potentially any issues you might have run into while using it. step 3: finalize your product rating and submit your review we've calculated your overall product rating based on the average of your criteria ratings above. you can adjust this rating by dragging this slider. overall rating 0 login and submit! 84 engadget score there's a lot to like about this in spite of a few flaws. 84 there's a lot to like about this in spite of a few flaws. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). see all scores scores engadget 84 critic 4 reviews 75 users not yet scored user reviews there are currently no user reviews associated with this product. that's okay though because you can add your own review and we'll feature it here. write a review the latest 6h 15 84 84 powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price great battery life, handy features and smart design choices. by b. steele, 6h ago share 03.16.20 03.16.20 beats' redesigned powerbeats earbuds have longer battery and hands-free siri they look more like the powerbeats pro and they're $50 cheaper. by b. steele, 03.16.20 share view 02.27.20 02.27.20 new powerbeats wireless headphones appear to be on the way it looks like the successor to 2016's powerbeats3 is almost ready. by n. ingraham, 02.27.20 share view read more stories sponsored links about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr