home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library degustabox food and drink product reviews prevnext april 2019 ‘best of british’ degusta box review leyla preston sun 5th may 2019 8shares share tweet pin another great month of delicious edible goodies from degusta box, which features the following brands this month: robinsons fruit cordials – £2.49 heinz organic baked beanz – £1 london flavours – £1 typhoo black tea – £2.20 heinz cream of tomato pot soup – £1.19 cheerios multigrain – £2.69 skinny food co not guilty white chocolate crispies/milk chocolate crispies – £1.49 crafted by cracker drinks co mango & passionfruit 330ml – £2 candy kittens wild strawberry – £1.50 eat water slim rice sushi – £2.55 pachamama andean berry & raspberry/cacao & cashew – £1.39 bulls-eye ny steakhouse barbecue sauce – £2.49 love corn smoked bbq – £1.29 here is the link to the full background of the degusta box and the service they offer: https://motherhooddiaries.com/degusta box-review-plus-competitiongiveaway-win-aprils-degusta box/ but, for a quick recap, degusta box is an online retail service that offers a monthly package full of nutritional goods for a monthly fee of £12.99. but lucky customers like yourself will receive a £7.99 discount when signing up for your first degusta box by inserting discount code bldeg15 at the checkout. products range from condiments to organic food and drink, packed with lots of information on the product and its manufacturer. you can sign up to receive a monthly degusta box here: http://tidd.ly/8f140077 you can stay updated via degusta box’s social networks too: facebook – https://www.facebook.com/degustaboxuk/ twitter – https://twitter.com/degustaboxuk instagram – @degustabox_uk #degustabox_uk and, that’s not all! customers can receive a hefty 40% discount when signing up with their email address. one other thing. degusta box has recently introduced db discoveries to keep us in the loop with new, smaller brands that we may not have heard of, but are equally as delicious. we’ll keep you posted on these too, by marking a ‘*’ next to the brand’s name. so, let’s get started! table of contents reviewers: what’s in april 2019’s degusta box? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degusta box below: products robinsons fruit cordials – £2.49 heinz organic baked beanz – £1 london flavours – £1 typhoo black tea – £2.20 heinz cream of tomato pot soup – £1.19 cheerios multigrain – £2.69 skinny food co not guilty white chocolate crispies/milk chocolate crispies – £1.49 crafted by cracker drinks co mango & passion fruit 330ml – £2 candy kittens wild strawberry – £1.50 eat water slim rice sushi – £2.55 pachamama andean berry & raspberry/cacao & cashew – £1.39 bull’s-eye steakhouse barbecue sauce – £2.49 love corn smoked bbq – £1.29 what did i like most about april 2019’s degusta box? rating: reviewers: tommy (daddy) leyla (mummy) aron (8 years old) aidan (7 years old) what’s in april 2019’s degusta box? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degusta box below: products robinsons fruit cordials – £2.49 “since 1823 robinsons has been making delicious fruit drinks. our experts have now crafted this deliciously refreshing pear & elderflower cordial. pairing juicy pears with delicate elderflower for the perfect refreshing drink. *available in major supermarkets.” our opinion – i thought this cordial was going to be quite sweet, but it wasn’t at all. it had a bitter aftertaste which i wasn’t keen on, but the kids liked it. 3.5/5 heinz organic baked beanz – £1 “heinz organic baked beanz are packed full of the finest organically grown ingredients offering you the organic alternative to our deliciously comforting beanz. available in major supermarkets.” our opinion – these beans tasted exactly the same as the normal variety, but the added benefit was that they were organic! the kids love baked beans, and it’s a massive staple in our house, but £1 per can is a bit expensive. not sure we would fork out for the organic variety every time. 4/5 london flavours – £1 “you can find authentic street food all over london, and more and more people are enjoying the vast array of foods on offer. if that’s your blog, then you’ll love these. you should receive one of three flavours in your box. available at premium independent-retailers.” our opinion – these crisps were absolutely delicious. they had a real authentic flavour, which had both a zing and a spice to it. i would definitely support the street food brand and buy this again! 5/5 typhoo black tea – £2.20 “typhoo has been a much loved british tea brand since 1903. our team of expert tea buyers and blenders carefully select only the finest tea leaves to ensure great taste, quality and freshness from every cup of typhoo. it’s sure to perk up your day!” our opinion – i do love a cuppa, and this tea was deliciously rich in flavour. i like my milk creamy and sweet, and the typhoo tea bags complemented the way i like my tea! 4/5 heinz cream of tomato pot soup – £1.19 “the heinz soups you know and love, now in recyclable microwaveable pots. enjoy the great taste of heinz soups outside the home in this new ultra-convenient format. available in major supermarkets.” our opinion – this is a great pick-up-and-go lunchtime snack/meal with bread if you have it to hand. the tomato is very creamy in texture and has lots of flavours. the pot is very convenient too – just microwave and go! 4.5/5 cheerios multigrain – £2.69 “deliciously crunchy os with 5 whole grains. they offer the whole family great taste, whole grains and vitamins. each irresistible cheerio is made with 5 whole grains, 7 vitamins, iron and calcium.” our opinion – the boys love cheerios, it’s their favourite cereal. so i was interested in tasting the oat version seeing as it was packed with more vitamins and minerals than the original. i wasn’t really a fan. they weren’t bad, but they didn’t really have the same crunch as the regular cheerios and there was a bit of an aftertaste. boys absolutely loved them though – they’re not super fussy with cheerios. 3.5/5 skinny food co not guilty white chocolate crispies/milk chocolate crispies – £1.49 “‘#notguilty crispies are guilt and gluten-free! lavishly tasty with no added sugar, these crispies are delightfully sweet satisfying cravings for less than 100 calories! they are also packed with an impressive source of protein so are an ideal snack for on the go. you should receive one of two flavours in your box. available online at www.theskinnyfoodco.com.” our opinion – i love crispy treats, like the classic chocolate cornflake crispies or those rice crispy treats. these #notguiltybites were ridiculously good! i loved that they weren’t super sweet, but still crunchy, plus they were only 99 calories a bag so you could indulge without feeling too guilty. my only bugbear is that the bags are too small! more chocolate crispies please! 5/5 crafted by cracker drinks co mango & passion fruit 330ml – £2 “a uniquely crafted fruit juice drink, with no added sugar or sweeteners. packed in an environmentally friendly carton with a resealable pack which is ideal for when you are on the go. all our crafted drinks count as one of your ‘five a day’. sweet, smooth and subtle. enjoy! available at café’s, deli’s farm shops & convenience stores.” our opinion – although quite sweet, this mango & passionfruit juice was delicious! i had to share the juice carton with three boys, and the creaminess of the juice was a favourite by all. i like that there’s no added sugar or sweeteners too and you can just pick up and go with the easy resealable pack as well. 4.5/5 candy kittens wild strawberry – £1.50 “hey! we’re candy kittens, and we believe that life’s too short for boring sweets. we think that treating yourself is very important and what better way to do it? our gourmet sweets are entirely free from gelatine and gluten, made for you to enjoy #thesweetway. available at tesco, sainsbury’s, superdrug, morrisons.” our opinion – these naughty sweets were absolutely delicious and nicely sour for my taste (i love sour candies). it was hard to stop at one, and both boys and i finished the pack in about ten minutes. cue the sugar rush! 5/5 eat water slim rice sushi – £2.55 “this easy to roll sushi rice is made with natural ingredients including japanese sushi rice and konjac rice. it contains 9 calories per piece and is scientifically prove to help you manage and lose weight. what’s more, it can also be used as sticky rice. available from www.eatwater.co.uk.” our opinion – i really love the idea of sushi rice that you can pick up and use, but in reality, i found it to be a bit congealed and slushy. i think this pack is great for those who want to lose and manage their weight and for those who don’t have time to make the rice. i, however, prefer to have fresh rice – just a preference! 3/5 pachamama andean berry & raspberry/cacao & cashew – £1.39 “a delicious mix of cacao, dates, nuts, grain and seeds. a guilt-free chocolatey hit with a taste of the andes! a fresh and zingy mix of fruit, grains, seeds and nuts that will release your inner energy and get your tastebuds tingling. a taste of the andes. no added sugar and 100% vegan you should receive one of two flavours in your box. available from pachamama website and gather & gather.” our opinion – i am partial to a sweet treat now and again and the healthier the sweet treat, the better. these pachamama bars were absolutely delicious – really dense and full of goodness which you could taste, like the cacao and dates. i’d definitely rebuy these, especially for my boys who also love sweet treats! 5/5 bull’s-eye steakhouse barbecue sauce – £2.49 “new yorkers never back down, and the same is true when it comes to flavour. that’s why this sauce is full of heart and ready to take on any red meat. bull’s-eye brings the ultimate, authentic american bbq taste. available in all major supermarkets.” our opinion – i love bbq sauce, and this particular bbq sauce tasted smoky with a hint of heat. it’s super versatile too! i even added it to spaghetti, which transformed the staple dish in our house. love it! 5/5 love corn smoked bbq – £1.29 “uk’s first premium crunchy corn brand, we’re on a mission to become your favourite snack. our delicious, crunchy corn kernels are packed with flavour and made with love. vegan, sugar & gluten-free, the perfect savoury snack. available in all major supermarkets.” our opinion – these corn snacks were delicious and very moreish! the smoky, crunchy corn kernels were crispy and full of flavour, and i’d definitely rebuy them! 5/5 what did i like most about april 2019’s degusta box? a mixed bag this month, but my favourites were the not guilty chocolate crispies (i want more!) and the pachamama goodies. i like sweet treats, but i prefer healthy sweet treats even more rating: 4.5 out of 5 – easily one of the best degusta boxes i’ve tried so far – i’m sure there’s more deliciousness to come! leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:best of britishfood delivery related posts june 2017 bbq degustabox review september 2015 – degustabox produc... degustabox review plus competition/givea... june 2015 – picnic degustabox product re... september 2014 – degustabox produc... august 2016 degustabox review july 2016 – degustabox review july summer 2017 degustabox review january healthy box 2015 – degusta... january 2018 degustabox review august 2017 degustabox review august 2014 – degustabox product r... april 2017 degustabox review october 2017 degustabox review may 2016 – degustabox food box – product... may 2018 degustabox ‘world cup’ product ... november 2016 (christmas) degustabox rev... may 2014 – degustabox product revi... december 2018 degustabox review march 2015 – degustabox product re... january 2016 – degustabox product ... may 2019 brunch and afternoon tea degust... june 2014 – degustabox product rev... february 2015 – degustabox product... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 8shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok