menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies aquarius aquarius 5 things every aquarius does during a breakup leena sanders everything you need to know about the aquarius in your life january nelson this is how you love an aquarius girl kara skye 10 things you need to know about the aquarius in your life kayla maynarich understanding the universal zodiac signs: sagittarius, capricorn, aquarius, and pisces mara de diego 14 things you should thank the aquarius in your life for rania naim 11 things you need to know before you date an aquarius chrissy stockton latest aquarius articles what saturn’s shift to aquarius means for each zodiac sign a.t. nunez “ saturn enters the sign of aquarius on march 21st. this can bring a lot of gloom and doom to some people, but this is generally an exciting period of time as we see the end of one chapter with saturn in capricorn and get ready for the innovation that this aquarius transit offers to bring us all. new years resolutions for your zodiac element kelly peacock “ remember: you’re growing. let it happen. 16 reasons the virgo + aquarius duo is the best zodiac couple there is leena sanders “ the patience and calmness of an aquarius balances the analytical and over thinking nature of the virgo. july 2018 full moon in aquarius: you are being called to your best life leena sanders “ this full moon has a lot of pieces that play into it and affect it to the degree that it does. 5 things every aquarius does during a breakup leena sanders “ thinks 100% logically, 0% emotionally. everything you need to know about the aquarius in your life january nelson “ the aquarius dates are january 20 – february 18 and the aquarius is one most unique and interesting thinkers in the zodiac. this is how you love an aquarius girl kara skye “ do not box in her soul to keep for yourself. she will never be a pandora’s box for the curious man’s mind to open. 10 things you need to know about the aquarius in your life kayla maynarich “ they can be stubborn to a fault. aquarians know what they want and aren’t afraid to go after it. understanding the universal zodiac signs: sagittarius, capricorn, aquarius, and pisces mara de diego “ aquarius will typically rebel against the mainstream because they know they are different and special. aquarius will normally have a different way of thinking and a very active mind. their ideas are clever, exceptional and inventive. typical of a genius. 14 things you should thank the aquarius in your life for rania naim “ for seeing the best in you. for appreciating your bizarre talent, for seeing your hidden potential, for noticing the little details about you that everyone else fails to see. for looking at you like you’re piece of art and admiring you for who you really are. more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.