we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for february 2011 entertainment startup launches to save men from giving bad gifts on valentine's day written by jennifer van grove about 9 years ago if anecdotal evidence is to be believed, men are notoriously bad gift-givers. seattle-based startup thoughtful launches its social gifting private beta product tuesday -- just ahead of valentine's day -- to help save the day. the premise is simple en... entertainment how egyptians used twitter during the january crisis [infographic] written by jolie o'dell about 9 years ago over the past several days, twitter and other social media platforms have been flooded with links, images and information about the current political crisis in egypt. social media intelligence firm sysomos has analyzed a lot of the egypt-related twee... entertainment samsung & dan marino "team up for autism" with online campaign written by jolie o'dell about 9 years ago today, samsung's philanthropic arm, hope for children, and former nfl quarterback dan marino launched a new social media initiative, “team up for autism.” the online campaign will help raise awareness of autism and funds for research and treatment pr... entertainment chad ochocinco is pleased with his new motorola xoom written by stan schroeder about 9 years ago the wait for motorola's ipad killer, the xoom, is almost over, as motorola has started handing the device to celebrities to try (and hopefully spread the word about it). nfl's loudest twitter fan chad ochocinco did exactly that, posting an image of t... entertainment lg optimus 3d to have a dual-lens 3d camera written by stan schroeder about 9 years ago lg has announced it will unveil its glasses-free 3d smartphone, the lg optimus 3d, at the mobile world congress held february 14-17 in barcelona. we've seen a lot of rumors and even an image of the device (see below), but now lg has gone on the recor... entertainment android, blackberry & ios tied for u.s. market share [stats] written by christina warren about 9 years ago thirty-one percent of mobile consumers in the u.s. now own a smartphone, according to a the nielson company's december 2010 u.s. smartphone market survey released tuesday. smartphone ownership is growing across the board, but according to nielsen, de... entertainment fliers get free access to facebook in february written by stan schroeder about 9 years ago can't wait to update your facebook status even when you're 30,000 feet in the air? you're in luck; several airlines have teamed up with gogo inflight internet and ford to offer free in-flight facebook access throughout the month of february. gogo's p... entertainment the 6 biggest stories in social media & tech this morning written by lauren indvik about 9 years ago welcome to this morning’s edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. we’re keeping our eyes on six particular stories of interest today. digg gets an overhaul to draw users back dig... entertainment google launches street view for museums written by brenna ehrlich about 9 years ago not every art lover has the capital to travel around the globe and take in the top museums. luckily, google has used its "big brother" powers for good with the google art project, which is like google street view for museums. today, on google's blog,... entertainment seesmic to target enterprise users with $4 million investment from salesforce written by adam ostrow about 9 years ago social media app maker seesmic has raised $4 million in new funding in a round led by salesforce.com, a deal that the startup says will help it reach more enterprise users. seesmic, which has now raised $16 million in total, began working with salesf... entertainment what we need to win the entrepreneurial race [op-ed] written by stephen martin about 9 years ago this post reflects the opinions of the author and not necessarily those of mashable as a publication. stephen martin is an entrepreneur and author. his forthcoming book, enterprise of one, is due out later this year. you can read his blog about entre... entertainment apple's tightening in-app purchase policy not likely to affect amazon, b&n [update] written by christina warren about 9 years ago update: sony's official statement regarding this matter is, "we submitted our app in accordance with the precedent set by other ebook retailers.” update 2: apple spokesperson trudy miller tells us, ""we have not changed our developer terms or guideli... entertainment facebook users lend profile photos to reveal ad agency’s new name [pic] written by todd wasserman about 9 years ago when swedish ad agencies grey stockholm and ogilvy stockholm made plans to merge, they decided to add a social media component to get fans involved. the two agencies asked fans to participate by signing into facebook to see the new name. every time n... entertainment in light of egypt's internet block, u.s. "kill switch bill" raises eyebrows written by sarah kessler about 9 years ago hint: if you're going to suggest legislation that gives the government an option to take control over certain online information systems, don't announce it at the same time a corrupt foreign regime shuts down the internet. apparently nobody so advise... entertainment bill & melinda gates foundation outlines 7 social good initiatives for 2011 written by zachary sniderman about 9 years ago bill gates has released his 2011 annual letter on behalf of the bill & melinda gates foundation, drawing attention to seven ambitious social good initiatives. gates stresses the need for renewed investment in foreign aid even as international budgets... entertainment emotional spell check coming soon to lotus notes written by jennifer van grove about 9 years ago lymbix, makers of the tonecheck outlook plugin that checks the emotional tone of content in e-mail, entered an agreement tuesday with software-maker sherpa software to bring tonecheck's sentiment analysis technology to ibm's suite of lotus products. ... entertainment why influencer marketing needs to go beyond follower counts written by gary lee about 9 years ago gary lee is the ceo of mblast, providers of cloud-based solutions to help pr and marketing professionals better identify and engage with their key influencers. from diet pills to get rich quick schemes, our culture is often obsessed with finding the ... entertainment galaxy implodes: many samsung tablets getting returned [report] written by chris taylor about 9 years ago if you were thinking of buying a samsung galaxy tab, you might want to hold off. according to a new report, more than one in 10 galaxy owners returned their tablet within the first month -- and the rate of return appears to be climbing. the touchscre... entertainment google latitude adds checkins written by jolie o'dell about 9 years ago google's location-sharing app, latitude, has just added the ability to check in at a specific business or other location. in the past, users simply pinpointed their location on a map. the difference seems minute, but letting users check in at a "real... entertainment taxi driver imitates michael jackson, delights the internet [video] written by brenna ehrlich about 9 years ago we didn't have to wait long for the next ted williams/susan boyle/other randomly talented everyman to emerge. right now, a video featuring a brazilian taxi driver doing a spot-on michael jackson impression is going viral, and it's likely only a matte... entertainment win a $2,000+ digital home entertainment package [contest] written by meghan peters about 9 years ago as we become more and more connected in the digital space, we're consuming different types of media across various devices. but with new, often pricey gadgets coming out every day, it's tough to keep up with the latest technology for watching movies,... entertainment "csi" facebook game offers bonuses for watching the show written by todd wasserman about 9 years ago thursday night's episode of csi will have something extra for fans of the show's facebook game: clues to unlock in-game bonuses. prior to the show's episode #1113, "the two mrs. grissoms," the facebook page housing csi: crime scene investigation: cri... entertainment fab.com offers groupon-like daily deals for gay men written by todd wasserman about 9 years ago in a move that shows group-buying is maturing into lifestyle niches, fab.com today launched its "big gay deal of the day," daily deals targeted to gay men. the site, which bills itself as the "definitive resource for gay men," launched its first deal... entertainment facebook launches deals page on site written by lauren indvik about 9 years ago want to access nearby facebook deals using your web browser? now you can, thanks to facebook's new "find deals on facebook" page. the page, which was launched last week, enables users to find local deals on a map, just as they would using facebook's ... entertainment 26% of mobile apps are opened only once written by sarah kessler about 9 years ago with 300,000 iphone apps and 200,000 android apps available for download, consumers aren't willing to tolerate apps that at first sight don't meet their standards. twenty-six percent of apps are only opened once after download, according to a study b... entertainment thumbplay music to add "radio" feature written by brenna ehrlich about 9 years ago joining the likes of mog, slacker radio and pandora, music subscription service thumbplay will soon be adding a "radio" functionality to its new web and smartphone apps. later this month, new versions of thumbplay's apps will hit the market -- this t... entertainment student suspended for calling teacher fat on facebook written by jolie o'dell about 9 years ago a california high school student has been suspended for making rude remarks about a teacher on facebook. for the more old-fashioned disciplinarians among us, this might seem like common sense; however, the aclu is claiming the student's free speech r... entertainment at&t's first 4g phone gets a launch date written by chris taylor about 9 years ago is there any non-apple handset that can tempt masses of at&t customers away from the iphone? we may find out shortly after february 12, when the carrier debuts the htc inspire -- its very first 4g phone. 4g technology is a confusing collection of cel... entertainment group buying for social good: 7 sites using daily deals to give back written by frank barry about 9 years ago frank barry, professional services manager at blackbaud and blogger at netwits thinktank, helps non-profits use the internet for digital communication, social media and fundraising so they can focus on making an impact and achieving their missions. f... entertainment seth godin's new publishing experiment reveals its first title written by lauren indvik about 9 years ago as part of his mission to develop an alternative to the traditional book publishing model, acclaimed author and marketer seth godin has announced the first title to appear under his new amazon imprint, called the domino project. the book is titled po... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 25 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.