we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for january 2014 entertainment feeling nervous? don't try to calm down — get excited written by businessweek about 6 years ago human beings, being human, get anxious. we all do, except psychopaths. an estimated 40 million americans suffer from anxiety of some form at any given time. some of us get really, really anxious, like scott stossel, a writer and editor at the atlanti... entertainment low-key new year's eve is the new raging party written by chris taylor about 6 years ago for many city-dwellers, the last straw was the surge pricing uber announced monday, which could see the cost of cars rise eight-fold at midnight on new years' eve. for many more, it was the various other forms of surge pricing associated with the eve... tech security firm warns about app that pays for unused text messages written by bloomberg about 6 years ago since 1999, millions of people have donated time on their personal computers for the seti@home project, which analyzes radio signals to look for intelligent life in outer space. an entrepreneur now wants people to donate time on their mobile phones f... culture luke, leia and megaman: 'star wars' reimagined as 1980s anime written by laura vitto about 6 years ago though the $4 billion star wars franchise includes manga comics and animated tv shows, no official anime adaptation has ever come to fruition. until lucasfilm licenses an anime series, then we'll have to rely on the internet to make our long-ago gala... world oh, never mind: top 5 retracted science studies of 2013 written by livescience about 6 years ago in the publish-or-perish world of academia, the pressure can be intense for scientists to get their work out in front of peers and to secure more funding for further research — so much so that, well, let's just say mistakes can happen. some mistakes ... entertainment watch the new year's eve ball drop live from times square written by brian anthony hernandez about 6 years ago no matter where you're ringing in the new year, you'll be able to watch a live stream of the festivities in new york city's times square right here on mashable or via mobile apps. the commercial-free live stream -- which begins at 5:55 p.m. et and en... business walt mossberg and kara swisher launch tech news site 're/code' written by todd wasserman about 6 years ago at the stroke of midnight, walt mossberg and kara swisher's wall street journal-owned tech news site allthingsd died and the two announced a new venture to take its place: re/code. a message on the wordpress-created site states that it is set for a l... tech 6 laptop speakers for astute audiophiles written by anna washenko about 6 years ago you don’t have to be a serious audiophile to require improved laptop sound. whether you’re spending hours gaming, watching movies or just playing tunes, a good set of laptop speakers makes a major difference. as with any audio gear, speakers can get ... social good 6 apps that fit charity into your daily routine written by sarah ang about 6 years ago a pen and checkbook used to be the only way to donate money to good causes. the internet, however, has rejuvenated our concept of “giving to charity,” bringing about an unprecedented age of both citizen and viral philanthropy, and calling upon online... business where's the best place to launch your startup? written by nellie akalp about 6 years ago saas and app startups can literally be anywhere in the world. with the cloud, both sales and support functions are virtual -- a top-notch software company no longer needs a large local sales force to sell its product via tons of in-person meetings. t... world frozen in time: century-old photos discovered in antarctica written by fran berkman about 6 years ago conservationists have extracted 22 century-old images from a box of photo negatives they discovered in antarctica earlier in 2013. the antarctic heritage trust, of new zealand, announced the discovery in december, saying the photographs are from erne... world the need to be open: u.s. laws are killing the future of robotics written by samantha dean about 6 years ago the next step in transformative technology is already here, and the united states runs the risk of getting left behind. the amount of robotics inventions is steadily on the rise, and the u.s. military is already in on the action. a few years ago, air... business 6 creative cover letters for job app inspiration written by sara roncero-menendez about 6 years ago your cover letter is supposed to catch a prospective employer's eye, but that's easier said than done when it's buried under a pile of applications. as a result, nearly every professional has his or her own advice when it comes to writing one of thes... culture 16 things you can't unsee from 2013 written by laura vitto about 6 years ago the year 2013 was one of huge and affecting news stories, including nsa snooping, the papal transition and obamacare. unfortunately, it was also the year of joanna rohrback's prancercise camel toe. it may be a new year, but there are plenty of head-s... tech 12 free web apps to boost your drawing skills written by grace smith about 6 years ago drawing and sketching were once activities limited to pencil and paper, but for budding artists in the digital age, there's a wealth of online, browser-based tools to let your creativity run wild. it doesn't just have to be a hobby or pastime, though... tech 4.6 million snapchat usernames and phone numbers leaked written by anita li about 6 years ago update - jan. 1, 11:54 p.m. et: snapchat ceo evan spiegel told mashable that the company is "working with law enforcement," and will "update when we can." @neeeda @snapchat working with law enforcement. will update when we can.— evan spiegel (@evansp... world how will new york city's tech industry fare under mayor de blasio? written by colin daileda about 6 years ago with the departure of new york city mayor michael bloomberg, the city's tech industry loses its most powerful public persona. replacing him is bill de blasio, the former city public advocate who campaigned with a platform that appealed to the everyma... entertainment 11 fears every diyer needs to get over written by annie colbert about 6 years ago this year, you conquer the power drill and the glitter, craft master. diy projects might seem like an impossible challenge that will leave you covered in glue and crying over a half-constructed birdhouse. but using your own two hands to make somethin... world iss astronauts wish earth happy new year written by space.com about 6 years ago the people of earth rang in 2014 with raucous celebrations that reached all the way to space, where astronauts on the international space station helped usher in the new year. three space station astronauts recorded a video wishing humanity a happy n... tech use this tool to check if your snapchat account was compromised written by anita li about 6 years ago two developers have created a tool that helps snapchat users check if their accounts were compromised following a massive leak of information that included usernames and phone numbers. will smidlein and robbie trencheny built "gs lookup - snapchat" o... entertainment 20 songs turning 20 in 2014 written by jessica catcher about 6 years ago the new year always arrives filled with hopes and resolutions to make this year better than the last. it also reminds us that we're getting really old. year after year, it's unfathomable that it's already time to change the calendar and spend the fir... entertainment 'american psycho' and more added to netflix for new year's day written by the daily dot about 6 years ago a great poet once said, nothing changes new year's day. and while that's true in many respects, it doesn't apply to netflix. a handful of new movies were added to the site today. several titles will also be expiring today, and all the buzz around thi... entertainment does wikipedia need a medical disclaimer? written by the daily dot about 6 years ago we all know the shortcomings of wikipedia. the encyclopedia that anyone can edit is a frequent victim to hoaxes and trolls who litter it with misinformation that can sometime last as long as a half-decade. most of us use it anyway. but what if you re... entertainment 'fresh prince of bel-air' star james avery dead at 68 written by alex hazlett about 6 years ago james avery, best known for playing philip banks on the television classic fresh prince of bel-air, died wednesday at age 68. alfonso ribeiro, who played uncle phil's son carlton on the show, announced avery's death on twitter and facebook. i'm deepl... tech skype's twitter, facebook and blog hacked by syrian electronic army written by anita li about 6 years ago update - jan. 1, 11:50 p.m. et: a skype spokesperson told mashable, “we recently became aware of a targeted cyber attack that led to access to skype’s social media properties, but these credentials were quickly reset. no user information was compromi... entertainment 16 gifs from 'new year's rockin' eve': tongues take over written by brian anthony hernandez about 6 years ago 2013 was a big year for miley cyrus and her tongue, for better or worse, so it seems only fitting that the tongue made several appearances in different variations on the final day of the year during abc's dick clark new year's rockin' eve party. view... a visitor takes a video with a new mobile phone 'optimus 3d' by lg at the 3gsm world congress in barcelona, on february 17, 2011. the 2011 mobile world congress is held 14-17 february, in barcelona. business 3 social media trends you should know about written by the daily muse about 6 years ago it's the beginning of a new year, and chances are you're resolving to do several (hundred?) things for the first time, differently, or better. but before you start listing out your new and improved social media plans for 2014, i've scoured the intern... entertainment see new year's eve through google glass in times square written by brian anthony hernandez about 6 years ago amid the sea of smartphones and handheld cameras capturing the iconic times square ball drop on new year's eve was at least one pair of google glass. mashable's associate entertainment editor brian anthony hernandez, above, wore google's wearable tec... tech today’s apps gone free: soundhound, striiv activity tracker, filterstorm written by appadvice about 6 years ago today we are focused on apps that will help you with your new year's resolutions like quick diet, gymassist, striiv activity tracker, and logacal. all app prices are subject to change at any time and without notice regardless of stated free duration.... tech motorola slashes price of moto x to $399 written by stan schroeder about 6 years ago motorola's flagship smartphone, the moto x, now costs $399 without a contract, the company has announced. rick osterloh, motorola's senior vp, product management, explained the company's reasoning behind the price change, arguing that prepaid service... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 51 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.