we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for august 2010 entertainment 25 essential social media resources you may have missed written by zachary sniderman over 9 years ago another beautiful summer week brings another beautiful social media round-up. in case you missed any of the resources published here on mashable, we've got them all laid out in neat little sections for your perusal. this week we looked at some great ... entertainment uae to ban blackberry e-mail, web browsing and messaging written by ben parr over 9 years ago citing national security concerns, the united arab emirates (uae) has announced that it will soon ban e-mail, web browsing and messaging for the blackberry smartphone. "in the public interest, we have today informed the providers of telecommunication... entertainment internet explorer gains market share at the expense of firefox written by ben parr over 9 years ago microsoft internet explorer continues to make a comeback, gaining market share for the third month in a row, mostly to the detriment of mozilla firefox. according to new statistics from net applications, internet explorer increased its share of the b... entertainment 5 energy efficient office gadgets written by stephanie marcus over 9 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. for years now the world has been talking about "going green," "reducing ou... entertainment 10 cool tech toys for kids [pics] written by stephanie marcus over 9 years ago kids today have been born into a digital world and it's something that is reflected in their toys. while you may have played hungry hungry hippos or had to pretend to burp your baby doll, today's toys are much more sophisticated and tech savvy, and e... entertainment pc defeats mac in reader vote written by ben parr over 9 years ago one of the most visible battles in all of technology is mac vs. pc. earlier in the week, we asked you, the mashable readers, to weigh in. our web faceoff this week focused around the device you're probably using right now: the computer. we wanted to ... entertainment 5 awesome optical illusion videos written by amy-mae elliott over 9 years ago how long has it been since you watched a video that made you go "whoa?" if the answer is more than a day, then fear not, as we've got five lined up, each chock-full of "whoa" potential. using nothing more than our eyes' and brain's perceptive weaknes... entertainment 10 geekiest apple-flavored cakes [pics] written by amy-mae elliott over 9 years ago here at mashable, it's no secret we all love cake. in fact, the only things we love more than cakes are geeky cakes. so, to satisfy our sweet tooth (and geekiness) we've hunted down 10 particularly fine examples of apple-themed pastry. why not have a... entertainment the origin of twitter's "fail whale" written by zachary sniderman over 9 years ago if you've been on twitter in the past month, you've probably bumped into the fail whale once or twice. the popular social network has been crashing pretty consistently from an influx of tweets and traffic. seeing the whale, you (like everyone else) m... entertainment 10 steps for successful social media monitoring written by maria ogneva over 9 years ago maria ogneva is the director of social media at attensity, a social media engagement and voice-of-customer platform that helps the social enterprise serve and collaborate with the social customer. you can follow her on twitter at @themaria or @attens... entertainment jailbreakme is the first web-based jailbreak for iphone written by ben parr over 9 years ago the first jailbreak for the iphone 4 and ios 4.0 has been released, and it's available now via mobile safari. jailbreakme 2.0 is a tool for jailbreaking not only the iphone 4, but any iphone running ios 4.0.1 or below and any ipad running ios 3.2.1 o... entertainment 4 ways blackberry can stay relevant written by james citron over 9 years ago james citron is ceo and co-founder of mogreet, the worldʼs first mobile video marketing platform. the digital entrepreneur has more than a decade of experience in the mobile industry with a proven track record for introducing successful, cutting-edge... entertainment foursquare and gogo form their own "mile high club" written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago starting today, airplane passengers who check in to foursquare via gogo's inflight internet service will be greeted with a nice surprise -- the "mile high badge." the "mile high badge" is nothing more than a digital token you can use to celebrate you... entertainment social networking dominates our time spent online [stats] written by adam ostrow over 9 years ago social networking now eats up twice as much of our online time as any other activity. according to new stats from nielsen, sites like facebook and twitter now account for 22.7% of time spent on the web; the next closest activity is online games, whic... entertainment wireless carriers developing pay via smartphone swipe system [report] written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago soon your smartphone could double as a credit card substitute. at&t, verizon and t-mobile are said to be partnering with discover financial services, makers of discover card, and barclays plc, a global retail banking company, to test the concept in s... entertainment youtube star to put his life in your hands for a year [video] written by brenna ehrlich over 9 years ago heyo all you megalomaniacs out there -- may we introduce yet another way to get your jollies this year: dan 3.0. starting today, 20-year-old youtube sensation dan brown is launching a new web show/social experiment in which he will turn control of hi... entertainment how small businesses will use social media in the future written by zachary sniderman over 9 years ago this series is supported by gist, an online service that helps you build stronger relationships. by connecting your inbox to the web, you get business-critical information about key people and companies. see how it works here. short of saying we’ll a... entertainment put all your club cards on a digital key ring written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago mashable’s spark of genius series highlights a unique feature of startups. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, see details here. the series is made possible by microsoft bizspark. name: key ring quick pitch: never carry p... entertainment mashable android app now available for download written by vadim lavrusik over 9 years ago with a growing number of mashable readers using the android os, we're excited to announce the mashable android app - live in the marketplace . the application makes it easy to navigate, read, save and share mashable stories. it also enables you to br... entertainment at&t launches qr code scanning app for blackberry and android written by christina warren over 9 years ago we've talked a lot about how qr codes are poised to take off in the mainstream and now at&t is jumping on the bandwagon with a new set of tools for android and blackberry phones. the company has just announced its at&t code scanner application and it... entertainment 11 free services for scheduling social media updates written by erica swallow over 9 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. maintaining a constant social media presence can be difficult, especially ... entertainment twitter & facebook dominate #winweekend for favorite mobile app written by vadim lavrusik over 9 years ago this weekend, we asked readers to finish the statement, "my favorite mobile application is..." for a chance to win this week's #winweekend sweepstakes (in partnership with live nation): an awesome lady gaga prize package. the dominant winner was twit... entertainment the a-team has an iphone app written by christina warren over 9 years ago nbc universal has just released the a-team action pack for the iphone and ipod touch. the app was created to coincide with the availability of the first season of the a-team on itunes. in 1983, a television series hit the airwaves about a crack comma... entertainment android smartphones outsell iphone in first half of 2010 written by adam ostrow over 9 years ago according to new data from nielsen, smartphones running google’s android operating system outsold those running apple’s ios in the first half of 2010 by a margin of 27% to 23% of the us market. the news builds on data from npd that showed the same re... entertainment microsoft office for mac 2011 arrives in october, gets a price written by ben parr over 9 years ago microsoft has announced that the long-awaited office for mac 2011 will hit u.s. store shelves at the end of october with three versions in 13 languages. the mac version of the popular productivity software will make its debut in three flavors: office... entertainment faux "oregon trail: the movie" trailer hits the web [video] written by brenna ehrlich over 9 years ago remember those glorious days of indoor recess, during which you would while away the half hour playing that most iconic of computer games: oregon trail? well, now you can reclaim them, because new media production group half day today has come out wi... entertainment facebook used by police to catch lawless drivers written by samuel axon over 9 years ago the traffic police of delhi, india, are using citizen submissions on a facebook page to catch and ticket misbehaving drivers. the new york times says officials have issued 665 tickets based on photographs of license plates posted to the delhi traffic... entertainment google releases the ultimate experimental version of chrome written by ben parr over 9 years ago not content with the feedback speed and weekly release cycle of the dev version of google chrome, the search giant has launched the google chrome canary build, the most experimental and risky version of the web browser yet. google constantly tests ne... entertainment how to: legally structure your startup written by nellie akalp over 9 years ago nellie akalp is the ceo & co-founder of corpnet, her second incorporation filing service company based on the simple philosophy of truth in business and her strong passion to assist small business owners and entrepreneurs in getting their business of... entertainment facebook questions get a multi-meme easter egg [video] written by samuel axon over 9 years ago myspace vp sean percival just got rickroll'd by a facebook easter egg after he asked a question referencing another popular internet meme. the easter egg, which presumably was added when facebook questions started rolling out a few days ago, responds... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 22 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.