we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for may 2010 entertainment apple or adobe: who's right in the flash debate? [poll] written by ben parr almost 10 years ago by now, you've probably heard about the fight between apple and adobe. to sum up the story, apple banned flash from the ipad, people began predicting the death of flash, and adobe has been on the defensive ever since. the apple-adobe war has only esc... entertainment facebook launches a new and simpler version of facebook events written by ben parr almost 10 years ago facebook has launched a new version of facebook events, simplifying the process of creating an event to one step. the most noticeable change is the newly added ability to create events right from your home page. there is now a box (pictured top right... entertainment 26 essential social media resources you may have missed written by matt silverman almost 10 years ago the week gone by was loaded with essential reading, especially in the tech department. we know you're busy, and digging through that rss reader for all the good stuff you missed is a chore. that's why we've once again gathered the crème de la crème i... entertainment top 10 iphone apps for tv fanatics written by sarah collins almost 10 years ago sarah collins is freelance journalist and student at northwestern university. she also writes for texas monthly, a.v. club chicago, chicago parent, venus zine, and punknews. it only takes knowing one lost fan to understand the addictive power of tele... entertainment top 10 twitter trends this week [chart] written by matt silverman almost 10 years ago justin bieber, supreme overlord of twitter, retains his iron grip on a fairly stable list of popular topics. with a few caveats, not much has changed since last week's list of trends. nba playoffs and nfl draft picks set the sports world abuzz, while... entertainment 8 best android apps for health and fitness written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago spring has sprung, summer's around the corner -- it's time to get outside and get in shape. we know your iphone-owning counterparts have plenty of apps for tracking their calories and kilometers to stay in shape, but there are plenty of health-relate... entertainment 5 simple tools for a paperless office written by matt silverman almost 10 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. despite living in the age of e-mail, wireless networks, smartphones, and t... tech times square bomb scare: nyc webcam captures evacuation [pics] written by pete cashmore almost 10 years ago new york's times square was evacuated tonight after a suspicious device was found in an suv. police confirmed that the device was a bomb, but there was no explosion and times square was safely evacuated. the story is still developing. live webcams ar... entertainment white house correspondents' dinner: obama on "socialized media" [video] written by pete cashmore almost 10 years ago social media earned a mention in the annual white house correspondents dinner tonight, with president obama quipping, "but even though the mainstream press gives me a hard time, i hear that i'm still pretty big on twitter, facebook ... or as sarah pa... entertainment 7 ways to customize your real life online written by shane snow almost 10 years ago most people have mastered the art of customizing their online profiles by now — whether its their twitter background, the parts of facebook you can make your own, or the host of other social accounts added to the average web addict's list every month... entertainment google acquires bumptop and its 3d desktop technology written by ben parr almost 10 years ago google's acquisition spree shows no sign of stopping. the search giant has acquired bumptop, an application for transforming your desktop into a slick 3d interface. the acquisition, reported by wellington financial, brings some really innovative tech... entertainment wordpress founder talks about the platform's future [video] written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago at wordcamp sf yesterday, we got to talk to wordpress founder matt mullenweg. he's the man behind the automattic empire, a collection of blogging software and complementary services, such as polldaddy and the spam filtration system akisment. mullenwe... entertainment u.s. soldiers + lady gaga "telephone" remake = epic! [video] written by ben parr almost 10 years ago i couldn't resist posting this now-viral video. it may very well be my favorite youtube video of 2010. just over a week ago, a group of u.s. soldiers stationed in southwest afghanistan posted a 3-minute, 45-second video of themselves dancing and lip ... entertainment hack: ipad 3g runs on t-mobile, sends texts [video] written by samuel axon almost 10 years ago the 3g version of apple's ipad hit store shelves on friday, and it's already been hacked to run on a u.s. carrier that's not at&t: t-mobile. better still, it's possible to send sms text messages from the ipad on t-mobile's network. a few ipad 3g owne... entertainment facebook chat for groups: clobby written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago if you've ever wanted to have more real-time interaction for your facebook page or group, or even just for you and your friends, give clobby a try. this newly launched application will let you conduct massively multiplayer chats right from your faceb... entertainment ipad 3g: the good, the bad and the ugly [review] written by christina warren almost 10 years ago the ipad 3g hit stores and customer mailboxes on friday afternoon, but how does this slightly modified model compare against the original? is the ability to use 3g worth the extra $130 per model? after spending the weekend using the ipad 3g and compa... entertainment nashville flooding: twitter and youtube tell the story [video] written by samuel axon almost 10 years ago nashville and other parts of tennessee were hit by the region's greatest rainfall in recorded history this weekend, resulting in a severe flood that has devastated the region and even swept away buildings and cars. the 20 inches of rain have turned i... entertainment twitter for android: the official/unofficial app smackdown written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago with the launch of twitter's official android app, we android users are now faced with a tough decision: jump on the shiny, new bandwagon or stick to whichever old faithful app we've been using over the past year or two. what features can you gain or... entertainment conan o'brien on "60 minutes": the full interview [video] written by samuel axon almost 10 years ago former the tonight show host conan o'brien sat down with cbs's 60 minutes for his first on the record interview since he left the tonight show and nbc in january. topics covered included jay leno, nbc executives, conan's new cable tv show and his bea... entertainment apple has sold 1 million ipads written by stan schroeder almost 10 years ago update: apple has officially confirmed it has sold 1 million ipads. the company sold its one millionth ipad on friday, april 30, just 28 days after the device's release. more than 12 million apps from the app store and 1.5 million e-books have been d... entertainment "world of warcraft" on the ipad with the help of gaikai written by stan schroeder almost 10 years ago have you ever heard of gaikai? it's a service (currently in beta) that lets you play games in your browser, directly from the cloud. gaikai runs and hosts the games, which are then streamed to the end-user with the help of java, flash or silverlight.... entertainment marvel brings "iron man" to the iphone written by christina warren almost 10 years ago marvel entertainment and zumobi have teamed up to bring a new iron man application to the iphone and ipod touch. the free application is more than just a tie-in for the upcoming iron man 2 movie, it's an app designed to keep fans connected to the ent... entertainment apple could face antitrust inquiry over flash ban [report] written by stan schroeder almost 10 years ago apple ceo steve jobs has been very clear on the matter of flash, and why apple won't let developers use a third-party layer of software to create apps for its mobile devices, the ipad, iphone and ipod touch. the question is: is it fair to developers ... entertainment mint.com launches new app for android written by christina warren almost 10 years ago today mint.com released a free app for android. users can now manage and keep up with their finances with many of the same features available on the app's iphone counterpart . this means that you can view real-time account balances, check recent tran... entertainment youtube to let partners charge rental fees for videos written by samuel axon almost 10 years ago update: to clarify, this service is not available to all users, but only to the users who are members of the partnership program. youtube's movie rental service is still in its infancy, and it still only offers a small selection of films, but that co... entertainment second life users file class action lawsuit over virtual land written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago a group of second life users is suing second life's creator over a virtual land dispute. they say their contractual property ownership rights have been changed and that this alteration of the terms of service constitutes fraud and violates california... entertainment facebook users like sex [stats] written by jennifer van grove almost 10 years ago self-proclaimed social media scientist dan zarrella has already applied linguistic methodologies to psychologically profile twitter users. now he's using the same technology and approach to break down facebook sharing behaviors. zarrella uses the reg... entertainment sports illustrated brings fantasy football to facebook written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago sports illustrated announced this morning that it's creating an si-branded facebook game for fantasy football. the app will launch in time for the season, and game play will extend to the sports illustrated website and existing mobile application so ... entertainment tennessee flooding inspires stunning youtube video written by samuel axon almost 10 years ago we posted several nashville flooding pictures and videos yesterday, but this gorgeous, artfully made montage is so moving that it deserves your attention — and it's making the rounds on the web, teetering on the edge of viral. you don't see youtube v... entertainment brightkite brings together location sharing and group texting written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago over the weekend, location-based service brightkite added a slew of new features to its mobile apps, including upgrades to its android and iphone features. one of the most exciting is the ability to send group texts via the iphone application. now, i... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 23 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.