we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for november 2013 tech movement powers your smartphone with genneo mobile generator written by eva recinos over 6 years ago as innovators look for ways to keep mobile devices charged when away from power outlets, genneo offers a new alternative that generates power from an unexpected source -- your movement. through a standard usb port, the product turns your movement int... world will the government monitor social media for snowden-like risks? written by bloomberg over 6 years ago the u.s. government is studying whether it can scour social-media websites for clues about potential risks from workers such as edward snowden and the washington navy yard shooter. snowden, a former national security agency contractor who leaked gove... culture a 21st-century haunted house written by neha prakash over 6 years ago long ago, haunted halloween houses had to put time and effort into their tricks. it took ghouls, goblins and mask-wearing-men-with-chainsaws to spook their visitors. but in 2013, there's no need for all the fuss. in this unearthed comics, artist sara... social good is anonymous social media the answer to cyberbullying? written by zoe fox over 6 years ago on the internet, it's easy to create a new pseudonym or personality. but what happens if you remove the concept of a user profile all together? that's what whisper, an anonymous mobile social network for android and ios does. by removing the user's i... culture gruesome drawings decompose your favorite pop culture characters written by laura vitto over 6 years ago homer simpson never looked this beat. french artist and graphic designer pierre-yves riveau, known as pez, has released a series of sketches that imagine sinewy and dilapidated versions of beloved pop culture characters. the series, titled distroy, g... tech new algorithm assesses the quality of wikipedia articles written by mit technology review over 6 years ago an algorithm that assesses the quality of wikipedia articles could reassure visitors and help focus editors on entries that need improving, according to the computer scientists who developed it. the result is many high-quality articles on a huge rang... business 6 job interview questions and answers to avoid written by businessnewsdaily over 6 years ago the old adage of "think before you speak" is never truer than when you're on a job interview. one unwitting slip-up could cost you your dream position, so it's crucial to know what kinds of questions and answers will set off a red flag for your inter... business groupon redesigns website for first time in five-year history written by seth fiegerman over 6 years ago groupon has overhauled the look and functionality of its website for the first time since it launched in november 2008. tech ask a dev: what are the advantages of native and hybrid apps? written by meg wagner over 6 years ago we've tackled the question of native apps vs. mobile websites, but comparing native and hybrid apps leads to a whole other discussion. in our latest ask a dev video, ios engineer eric miller explains the advantages of creating a completely native ios... tech google mystery barge is ... a store for secrets? written by chris taylor over 6 years ago remember the strange google-owned barge parked just off treasure island, matched by a counterpart in portland, maine? the one cnet uncovered last friday, and suggested might be google's patented floating data center? the mystery that made it as far a... entertainment students recreate 17th century london in 3d for video game written by colin daileda over 6 years ago six students at de montfort university in the united kingdom won a video game design competition called "off the map" earlier this month with their 3d, digital recreation of london in the years just before the city's great fire. university teams that... entertainment filmmaker jason reitman is using twitter to cast an actor written by meg wagner over 6 years ago juno and up in the air director jason reitman has a new casting director: twitter. the oscar-nominated director tweeted that he's looking for a teenage actor for his upcoming film men, women & children, an adaptation of the chad kultgen novel about t... business marketers are putting their money and confidence in social media written by sara roncero-menendez over 6 years ago business to business (b2b) marketers are utilizing content marketing strategies more and more in the digital age to promote their brands. they're becoming confident in creating content supported by the brand, such as magazines, books, articles, how-t... tech ipad air is now available for purchase written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago apple's ipad air is now available for purchase in the u.s. and other countries, including australia, china, uk, germany, france, italy and japan. you can get the ipad air from apple's online store, or pick it up yourself in an apple store, starting 8... entertainment 25 apps to save you money written by rebecca hiscott over 6 years ago are you member of "generation procrastination"? if your savings account and retirement plan are gathering virtual cobwebs, you probably are. a recent retirement study by scottrade suggests that gen y is getting way behind on its savings. the recessio... culture 12 reasons you need to stop raiding the employee fridge written by jessica catcher over 6 years ago it's getting close to lunch time. you forgot to pack something and have $0.37 in your bank account. sound familiar? your eyes go to the employee fridge and your stomach gives a little growl... stop right there. don't do it. nope, put that brown bag d... tech ipad air is extremely hard to repair written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago the gadget-disassembling crew from ifixit has gotten its paws on apple's new ipad air, and they have some bad news for do-it-yourself repairmen: it's very, very hard to open and repair. the ipad air is much thinner and lighter than the 4th-gen ipad, ... entertainment company crowdfunds 'locking' anti-rape garments written by eva recinos over 6 years ago the creators of a new clothing line featuring underwear and running shorts aim to help women feel safer on the streets. ar wear has been working on a anti-rape garments that women can wear discreetly, underneath their normal clothing. the idea is tha... culture 12 ways to make the most of your rejected halloween candy written by laura vitto over 6 years ago nonstop candy munching is arguably the greatest part of halloween. but what will you do with your candy rejects? you know -- that one candy you dislike that will sit in the bowl until you finally throw it away in january. this halloween, don't throw ... culture 10 helpful ways to smile through painful situations written by jessica catcher over 6 years ago life is hard -- like, really hard. every day is a new opportunity for everything in your life to go wrong. but that doesn't mean you shouldn't still wear a smile on your face! take a look at these simple steps to putting on a brave face and taking al... tech hackathon offers more than $1 million in prize money written by adam popescu over 6 years ago the total prize money up for grabs at next week's launch hackathon is $1.6 million. yes, you heard that right. the three-day event runs from nov. 8 to nov. 10 in san francisco, calif., with $800,000 going to the top two finalists. launch is the brain... tech apple's ipad air is available and other news you need to know written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of "first to know," a series in which we keep you in the know on what's happening in the digital world. today, we're looking at three particularly interesting stories. apple’s ipad air is now available for purchase o... world nasa flies student experiments in low gravity written by colin daileda over 6 years ago nasa will send 14 groups of students and their experiments on a plane that nasa uses to train some of its astronauts for missions in space. the plane will climb to low gravity before diving back toward earth so quickly that the weight of everything o... business facebook rolls out zero data charge access in the philippines written by bianca consunji over 6 years ago facebook is offering free access to philippine smartphone users, effective october 31. the launch marks the first time facebook has granted asian smartphone users full access to the network without data charges. subscribers will be able to access and... u.s. this artist wants you to touch a stranger written by eric larson over 6 years ago nyc artist richard renaldi's newest project asks strangers to pose in intimate embraces. the project's book comes out in april. business warning: google's first nexus 5 ad will make you cry written by seth fiegerman over 6 years ago google's first ad for the new nexus 5 smartphone will tug on your heartstrings. entertainment netflix’s next big battle: in-season binge-watching written by quartz over 6 years ago netflix, the undisputed king of full-season tv binge-viewing, is now preparing for battle with networks, along with cable and satellite providers, on a new front: in-season binge-watching. currently, viewers can easily watch previous full-seasons of ... world snowden in letter to germany: 'speaking the truth is not a crime' written by lorenzo franceschi-bicchierai over 6 years ago edward snowden expressed his support for a german investigation into nsa surveillance in a letter delivered the german government on friday. outraged by recent allegations that the nsa might have tapped chancellor angela merkel's phone, german lawmak... business fab cofounder leaves the company written by seth fiegerman over 6 years ago bradford shellhammer, cofounder and chief designer of fab.com, is leaving the company after just more than four years. culture the single greatest way to make a subway conductor's day written by molly horan over 6 years ago a day in the life of new york city subway conductor requires much carefully planned repetition -- stop, go, make an announcement, repeat. part of a conductor's daily routine includes pointing at a black-and-white sign positioned at the center of ever... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 46 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.