we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for october 2011 entertainment 10 facebook timeline designs that will blow you away written by amy-mae elliott over 8 years ago facebook's new timeline design gives users a large "cover photo" space at the top of the page. we think this revamp is a great opportunity to get creative with your profile presentation. we recently asked the mashable readership to share how they've ... business social debate site lets you compare viewpoints with the candidates written by jennifer van grove over 8 years ago the spark of genius series highlights a unique feature of startups and is made possible by microsoft bizspark. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. name: twosides quick pitch: twosides makes it... entertainment hot tips for landing jobs at google, apple and facebook [infographic] written by lauren drell over 8 years ago google, apple and facebook are the tech trifecta, so we found facts that could help you land a job at one of these companies. no doubt, there will be stiff competition: nearly one in four young professionals wants to work at google, for instance, but... entertainment how to subscribe to the mashable team on facebook written by stephanie haberman over 8 years ago ever since the launch of facebook subscriptions, the mashable team has been excited to jump into this new way to interact with our community. just like we did with google+, we wanted to give the mashable community an easy way to locate our team on fa... entertainment top 10 tech stories we almost posted this week [pics] written by charlie white over 8 years ago we sniff out a boatload of tech stories every week, but this week was unusual -- it was outlandishly rich in bounty and packed with punchy techo-goodness. there were so many stories, we couldn't even get to them all, but we didn't want you to miss ou... entertainment facebook says it's looking beyond click-throughs [interview] written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago as innovative and influential facebook is, the company still mostly relies on a technology that’s been around since 1994: display advertising. facebook’s display ads get fewer click-throughs than those that run elsewhere, at least according to one re... entertainment amazon silk: an ingenious plan to get you to buy more stuff written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago pretty much everyone knew that amazon would introduce a tablet pc last week, but what may have come as a surprise to many was that the company also planned to get into the browser business. amazon silk, as the new browser is known, is a somewhat unus... entertainment iphone 5 launch: top 10 questions written by charlie white over 8 years ago apple's iphone event is rapidly approaching, and most of us are wondering precisely what's going to be announced. so now we come to you, the millions of mashable readers, asking you to answer our 10 poll questions so we can crowdsource this informati... entertainment facebook 101 [comic] written by matt silverman over 8 years ago there are some people who think facebook has become too complicated. there are other people who agree with those people. mashable comics are illustrated every week by kiersten essenpreis, a new york-based artist who draws and blogs at youfail.com. mo... entertainment blogger outreach: 5 tips for connecting with top influencers written by stacey politi over 8 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. some of the most respected influencers on the internet today were viewed a... business 3 new apps for sharing gifts, trips & products written by sarah kessler over 8 years ago the spark of genius series highlights a unique feature of startups and is made possible by microsoft bizspark. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. each weekend, mashable picks startups we thin... entertainment 62 new digital media resources you may have missed written by stephanie buck over 8 years ago this week seemed to go by fast, am i wrong? you barely had time to finish last week's roundup -- it was a doozy with 61 stories -- before our newest list rolled out this week. not to worry! mashable has organized all of our features into manageable c... entertainment no iphone 5? apple may only launch iphone 4s [rumor] written by ben parr over 8 years ago expecting apple to unveil the iphone 5? you may be in for a disappointment, according to various reports. new evidence and speculation points to the existence of an 9to5mac. apple's inventory system contains references to an iphone 4s as well, under ... entertainment youtube cover song face-off: maroon 5's "moves like jagger" written by brian anthony hernandez over 8 years ago each week, mashable picks a popular song, finds 10 covers of it and asks you to vote for your favorite. "moves like jagger" from maroon 5 and christina aguilera -- both best new artist grammy winners -- lands atop billboard's hot 100 chart this week.... entertainment 10 neat nintendo facts written by amy-mae elliott over 8 years ago despite a few flops along the way, nintendo has been one of the most successful players in the video game industry since the early 1980s. but how much do you know about nintendo? did you know it's over 100 years old? do you know which american sports... business top 10 reasons your website is losing sales written by erica swallow over 8 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. uk retailers are losing more than £8 billion ($12.6 million usd) per year ... entertainment the significant 7: the most influential phones of the past 10 years written by amy-mae elliott over 8 years ago oct. 1 marks 10 years since japanese carrier ntt docomo flipped the switch on the world's first 3g network in tokyo. heralding new speeds and amazing possibilities such as "real-time videoconferencing or sending and receiving e-mail attachments with ... entertainment iphone 5: are you a fanboy? [infographic] written by charlie white over 8 years ago in the coming days, if you don't restrain your enthusiasm for apple's new iphone introductions, you'll invariably be called fanboy or fangirl (fanperson?). last week, in part 1 of our 3-part series of iphone 5 infographics, we dug deep into the quest... entertainment #occupywallstreet takes over twitter & the brooklyn bridge [pics & videos] written by ben parr over 8 years ago the occupy wall street movement, a series of nationwide demonstrations that opposes corporate greed and social inequality, has caught fire in recent days. what started as a single protest in new york city has spread to multiple cities and resulted in... entertainment 10 questions to ask before hiring a digital pr consultant written by heather whaling over 8 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. research indicates businesses increasingly rely on the public relations in... entertainment klout quietly adds wordpress.com to klout scores written by brian anthony hernandez over 8 years ago when klout announced in mid-september that blogger and tumblr would play a role in determining your klout score, wordpress users immediately asked, "what about us?" klout responded by quietly adding wordpress.com to its scoring system, which already ... entertainment facebook introduces expandable ad unit written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago facebook is introducing a new type of ad that will expand if a friend "liked" the brand. the ad unit, which will be announced this week at advertising week in new york, is subtly different from sponsored stories, which rolled out in january, in two w... entertainment facebook launches new metric: "people talking about" written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago facebook has overhauled its pages insights analytics tool and added a new metric to gauge the health of a page: "people talking about." that statistic, which users will see on pages below the total number of "likes," will be one of four tracked by pa... entertainment top 25 most-shared stories in september written by brian anthony hernandez over 8 years ago to no one's surprise, 18 of the 25 most-shared mashable stories in september were about facebook. your share-happy fingers went into overdrive because facebook announced a barrage of changes involving your profile (timeline, anyone?) and news feed, b... entertainment samsung galaxy s ii arrives at at&t written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago at&t's version of samsung's flagship smartphone -- which is a bit different from the versions sold at sprint and t-mobile -- is now available for purchase. samsung galaxy s ii comes with a 1.2 ghz exynos cpu, android 2.3 gingerbread and 16 gb of stor... entertainment mashable weekend recap: 23 stories you may have missed written by ben parr over 8 years ago this weekend was dominated by facebook and apple. the former launched several new ad products, and speculation is rampant as apple's iphone event on oct. 4 approaches. we posted several other useful resources this weekend too, including hot tips on g... entertainment htc security flaw exposes private data [report] written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago several htc android handsets, including evo 3d, evo 4g and thunderbolt, are susceptible to a security flaw that exposes users' private data, including emails, phone numbers and sms data, according to a report from android police. htc recently added a... entertainment apple might only launch iphone 4s, facebook timelines launch delayed: today's top stories written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. we’re keeping our eyes on three particular stories of interest today. apple might only launch iphone 4s new evid... entertainment yahoo and abc news join forces written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago yahoo and abc news have announced an agreement to share content including stories and web videos. under the deal, announced monday, yahoo and abc news will reach 100 million users a month and redistribute content including goodmorningamerica.com, whi... entertainment facebook avoids timeline restraining order -- but delays launch [updated] written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago update: nothing in the most recent legal filing indicates that facebook changed its timeline launch date as a result of the suit. however, several developers have noted that a message saying that timelines would automatically publish to the public on... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 31 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.