we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for december 2013 entertainment 'fast and furious' actor paul walker dead at 40 written by lance ulanoff over 6 years ago paul walker, an actor best known for his role as a fast-driving cop opposite bad-guy-gone-good vin diesel in the fast and furious movie series died on saturday in a car crash in santa clarita, calif., according to multiple reports. walker was 40 year... tech 8 holiday gift ideas for dad written by denise lu over 6 years ago the holidays are just around the corner, which means it's time to start shopping for loved ones. instead of getting your dad another tie to add to his pile, why not get him something more unique? we’ve curated some useful tech gifts and gadgets for t... world caught between immigration law and time zones, developer loses job written by fran berkman over 6 years ago this is part of an occasional series about the technology industry's plight to reform immigration law in the united states. aron susman would sometimes wake up at 3 a.m. to have real-time discussions with his nascent company's user interface expert. ... world new york train derailment kills at least 4, injures dozens written by chelsea stark over 6 years ago at least 4 people were killed and 60 injured after a metro-north commuter train jumped a curved section of track just outside of new york city sunday morning, according to a report from wabc. the derailment happened near palisades avenue and independ... entertainment smart power strip lets you control appliances remotely written by sara afzal over 6 years ago with its built-in wi-fi, the smart power strip allows users to remotely control their plugged-in home appliances via a smartphone app. from the ios or android app, users can remotely switch an appliance on or off. other app functions include programm... entertainment 'fast and furious' cast mourns paul walker's death written by christine erickson over 6 years ago as details of paul walker's sudden death continue to unfold, the 40-year-old actor's fast and furious costars mourned his passing on social media. walker died saturday in a car crash in santa clarita, calif. leaving a charity event, he was riding in ... entertainment yahoo japan creates bizarre interactive page for lady gaga written by eva recinos over 6 years ago lady gaga continues her series of quirky projects for her newest album "artpop" -- we last wrote about her flying dress -- with something fans can really, er, snuggle up with. gaga teamed up with manufacturers in japan to create gagadoll, a humanoid ... entertainment 8 original six-second cartoons created on vine written by annie park over 6 years ago your challenge this week was to make your own six-second cartoon on vine. because we didn't limit you to any one material, we saw all kinds of submissions, ranging from moving sketches and fun claymations to animated paper cutouts and action figures ... entertainment eco-friendly stove is a perfect camping companion written by rebecca hiscott over 6 years ago product name: biolite kettlepot price: $49.95 who would like this?: eco-friendly camping enthusiasts who love their gadgets when you're camping, efficiency is key. nothing takes you out of the serenity of nature quite like lugging a bulging backpack ... entertainment stay classy, north dakota: ron burgundy joins local news show written by christine erickson over 6 years ago milk might have been a bad choice, but putting ron burgundy on a bona fide local-news show was definitely a good one. the anchorman protagonist, played by will ferrell, joined cbs's north dakota affiliate kx news on saturday night. entirely in charac... u.s. black friday online spending hit record $1.2 billion written by bloomberg over 6 years ago online spending on black friday increased 15% to a record $1.20 billion as more consumers opted to shop from their couches rather than battling long lines at stores. total ecommerce sales reached $20.6 billion in the first 29 days of this holiday sea... tech amazon disses ipad air in new holiday ad written by chelsea stark over 6 years ago targeting customers' pocketbooks this holiday season, amazon disses the ipad air in a new advertisement for its kindle fire hdx 8.9. in the ad, above, a british voiceover touts the ipad air with retina display, calling it "magical" -- a term frequent... culture 25 amazingly awful christmas sweaters written by christine erickson over 6 years ago it's the most wonderful time of the year! no, not the holiday office party. we're talking about the only time it's socially acceptable (and practically encouraged) to don the gaudiest outfit your closet has to offer. that's right -- it's finally chri... entertainment 9 healthy eating apps to get you back on track written by anna washenko over 6 years ago these days, your tablet and smartphone are two of the most versatile tools you can have in your kitchen. with so many food-centric apps available for ios and android platforms, your tech can be especially useful if you're trying to eat healthy. wheth... world white house: healthcare.gov meets deadline for repairs written by nextgov over 6 years ago the obama administration has met a self-imposed deadline to bring healthcare.gov, its glitch-ridden online health-insurance marketplace, into working order for the majority of users by the end of november, according to an administration report releas... entertainment deciphering a death: paul walker's final moments play out online written by brian anthony hernandez over 6 years ago a daughter lost a father, friends lost a loved one and movie fans lost a heartthrob actor when 40-year-old paul walker died saturday after the red 2005 porsche carrera gt he was riding in as a passenger crashed and caught fire in santa clarita, calif... culture remarkable portraits blur the lines between 2d and 3d written by laura vitto over 6 years ago photographer alexander khokhlov and makeup artist valeriya kutsan are known for their talented collaborations that beautifully blur the lines between 2d and 3d. for their second photo series, playfully titled "2d or not 2d," they shot magnificent por... world 8 oddly specific things you can't bring to the sochi olympic games written by meg wagner over 6 years ago if you're heading to the sochi olympic games in february, you're going to have to leave behind your television, tennis racket and thermos. officials released a detailed list of prohibited items at the 2014 winter games. many of the bans are standard ... business why people unsubscribe from your email list written by lauren drell over 6 years ago email is one of the best ways to reach consumers. so when you see your email unsubscribe rate spike, that means your consumers aren't just no longer interested in reading your content, they don't even want to see it in their inbox anymore. ouch. "mar... tech instagram reportedly working on new messaging feature written by adario strange over 6 years ago since facebook acquired instagram last year, there has been much speculation about its plans for the popular photo-sharing app. now, new reports indicate that instagram is working on a messaging feature. citing an anonymous source, gigaom reported la... tech amazon unveils flying delivery drones on '60 minutes' written by adario strange over 6 years ago amazon founder and ceo jeff bezos is known for making big bets in the world of innovation, and on sunday night on 60 minutes he revealed what might be one of his biggest: product delivery by flying robot drones. the service is called amazon prime air... world 7 outdated technologies the u.s. military still uses written by colin daileda over 6 years ago the u.s. military is the proud owner of some of the world's most advanced technology. it has a fleet of flying robots capable of shooting missiles at enemy targets. it has engineered computer viruses that can inflict physical damage. and soon, the u.... entertainment filip smartwatch helps parents track their child's location written by eva recinos over 6 years ago for parents thinking about getting their child a cell phone for safety, the filip smartwatch and phone hybrid may stave off that need for a few years. filip helps parents easily call and keep track of their children. of course, the watch tells time, ... entertainment smart gloves mimic human touch, making winter more bearable written by christine erickson over 6 years ago there is nothing worse than the cold winter wind mocking you as your gloved hand swipes the screen of your touch-sensitive mobile device and nothing happens. with the dropping temperature comes the frustrating inability to use your smartphone. fortun... tech amazon drops kindle fire prices for cyber monday written by adario strange over 6 years ago although black friday has a reputation as a launch pad for some of the most aggressive deals offered by major stores and brands, in recent years cyber monday has also shaped up as a choice time to find a deal. keying in on this trend, amazon has anno... entertainment how introverts can stand out at work written by the daily muse over 6 years ago your average american workplace is not always kind to introverts. trends like open-floor offices and everyone-talking-at-once brainstorming sessions can be draining, and might even convince you that a natural preference for extroversion is the real p... world google doodle pays tribute to opera singer maria callas written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago today's google doodle commemorates the birthday of american-born opera singer maria callas, who was born dec. 2, 1923 in new york city. the doodle depicts callas singing against the backdrop of an opera house. famous for her bel canto technique, call... tech 10 tech visionaries who died in 2013 written by fran berkman over 6 years ago the tech world lost several brilliant minds in 2013 who made enduring contributions to their fields and society at large. from the talented programmer and passionate online activist aaron swartz to movie special effects pioneer ray harryhausen, you'v... entertainment the 9 best indie games for holiday gifts written by sara roncero-menendez over 6 years ago gamers undoubtedly have plenty of mainstream video games on their holiday wish lists this year, but others might crave something a little more off the beaten path. thankfully, there's no shortage of well-crafted indie games ready for purchase on mult... culture 9 jane austen quotes for the frustratedly single written by molly horan over 6 years ago jane austen's characters have a lot of experience with lackluster love lives. while elizabeth spends the majority of pride and prejudice darcey-less, maybe you've wondered for most of your twenties when that special someone will appear from right und... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 46 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.