we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for july 2006 entertainment ibloks - why? written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago ibloks is one of the most bizarre offerings released this year. the new desktop application is being called a "3d multimedia slideshow tool" - it allows you to combine photos, videos and music into an odd media mashup that you can send to your friend... entertainment blubrry launches - new podcast directory written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago blubrry, which went live late yesterday, is a new podcast directory coupled with a social network. apart from being darned hard to spell, it's a fairly unremarkable effort: you can search for podcasts, browse by tags, listen to podcasts in the pop-up... entertainment wikipedia for beliefs: standpedia written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago standpedia, a new service from the makers of standpoint, is a place to post questions and debate them with others. and while the wikipedia comparison is easy to make, it's not totally accurate - standpedia is more of a discussion forum where you can ... entertainment eefoof - steal youtube videos, get paid written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago eefoof is a new media-sharing site that's trying to be youtube (and photobucket) with revenue sharing. you can post your videos, images and audio to the site and earn a cut of the revenue based on how many pageviews your content receives. for a numbe... entertainment lulutv pays cash for your videos written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago lulutv, a barebones youtube clone, has announced it plans to pay users for their videos. just like eefoof, the idea is to pay video creators based on the number of pageviews they attract. what's different is the business model: while eefoof wants to ... entertainment myspace video written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago hitwise just released their latest stats on the video sharing space, and it looks like myspace video is hitting back against youtube. the service saw huge growth in early april, when a link to it appeared on every myspace page. it then suffered a dip... entertainment "the best stuff in the world" - myspace for stuff written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago the best stuff in the world is a social site with a simple aim: to help you find the best stuff. the stuff in question is submitted by users and arranged into categories to make comparisons easier. each item has its own page complete with a screensho... entertainment photobucket and flock launch custom browser written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago photobucket has released a customized version of the flock browser. the new release allows for easy linking of images on myspace, blogger and livejournal - users just drag and drop photos from their desktop into blog entries and comment fields. flock... entertainment metacafe revs up to take on youtube written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago metacafe, the popular israeli video-sharing site, has taken a hefty $15 million in funding from benchmark capital and accel partners - on top of an original investment from benchmark of $5 million. metacafe, which launched in 2003, is the 80th bigges... entertainment goingon network - build your own social network written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago goingon is a platform for creating your own social network. if that sounds familiar, it's because peopleaggregator, which launched last week, is pursuing a similar strategy. in fact, the two projects began as a joint venture involving publisher tony ... entertainment tribe being acquired by nbc? yowsers! written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago tribe, the san francisco-based social networking company, is likely to be acquired by nbc, reports valleywag. nbc have sent a letter of intent to tribe networks inc, and they'll soon begin due diligence. this comes after nbc's purchase of ivillage - ... entertainment nabbr - hot stuff for blogs, myspace and xanga written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago nabbr provides a neat little hotlist widget to put on myspace, xanga and blogs. the concept is similar to mypicklist, or even the fashion-bookmarking site stylehive: users can pick their favorite products from certain categories, copy products from t... entertainment commentful tracks comments on digg, youtube, blogs and more written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago commentful is a new service that helps you track comments on digg stories, youtube videos, blog entries, myspace pages and flickr photos - in fact, virtually anywhere with a comments field. you just create an account and add the urls you want to trac... entertainment rocketboom ditches amanda congdon (video) written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago amanda congdon, presenter of the massively successful vlog rocketboom, has left the show. commenters had speculated that amanda was on vacation, but it now transpires that she's gone for good. in a short video (included below), amanda claims that she... entertainment bluedot launches - myspace meets del.icio.us written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago bluedot, which launched at gnomedex last friday, is a beautifully-designed social bookmarking site with a more personal feel. the 10-person company is based in seattle, and they've raised $1.5 million in angel funding from notable investors including... entertainment free public file sharing at in.solit.us written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago i'm really not sure this is a smart idea. in.solit.us (quit it with these domains already!) is a service for public file sharing - you can also share a file with a select group of users, or send a link to the file via email. all you need to do is upl... entertainment skinnyr starves the myspace beast written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago skinnyr is a weight-tracking widget to place on your myspace page. you can update your weight regularly on skinnyr.com, or add the bookmarklet to your firefox toolbar - your weight-loss (or gain) is displayed in a neat little flash graph. and of cour... entertainment ebay bans google checkout - why? written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago google checkout, which launched on june 29th, has been banned by ebay - it now appears on their list of payments that aren't permitted. from the site: payment services not permitted on ebay: alertpay.com, anypay.com, auctionchex.com, auctionpix.com, ... entertainment wikibios - wikipedia for your biography written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago wikibios is a new site that lets you create an editable biography. the catch? you can't edit your own page - only your friends, family and complete strangers can do that. the wikibios service was created by three recent graduates of duke university: ... entertainment muslimspace - myspace for muslims written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago muslimspace is (you guessed it!) myspace for muslims - yet another niche social network. the site was created by mohamed el-fatatry, a former computer science student at the american university of sharjah. and while the interface is undeniably inspir... entertainment linknsurf - track myspace, xanga and livejournal on your cellphone written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago santa clara-based linknsurf, which launched officially on june 29th, is a java application that lets you track a range of popular blogging services on your cellphone. to subscribe to blogs on myspace, xanga, blogger/blogspot, livejournal, textamerica... entertainment blueorganizer brings amazon to firefox written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago blueorganizer, currently in private beta, is a firefox extension that puts amazon into your browser. the first element is a product-specific bookmarking tool: when you're on a book page on amazon, for instance, the "bluemark" icon on your toolbar lig... entertainment nbc buying tribe? written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago numerous sources have now reported the rumor that nbc is buying tribe, the struggling social network and classifieds site. paidcontent estimates the price at less than $50 million. it seems that nbc is interested in tribe's technology platform, which... entertainment yellowikis receives ridiculous legal threat from yell written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago unbelievable. yellowikis, the business wiki that was founded on $500, has received a legal threat from yell, the makers of the yellow pages. yell has accused paul youlten and rosa blaus (paul's 15 year-old daughter, who co-founded the service) of "mi... entertainment podshow plus launches, inspired by myspace music written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago podshow plus, a new version of the podshow podcasting network, has launched - i kinda like it. however, the new site is much more mainstream than the previous version - something that might offend some of the geekier users. the major change is that i... entertainment friendster patents social networking written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago san francisco-based friendster has won a patent for online social networks. the patent was filed in 2003, and was awarded on june 27th. friendster's founder jonathan abrams is listed as the inventor, and the patent covers a “system, method, and appar... entertainment bullpoo - world of warcraft meets wall street written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago bullpoo is an excellent blogging platform, community and online game for stock market investors. the site is built around a set of member blogs, and blog entries are tagged with the company's ticker symbol. bullpoo blogs also offer a unique feature: ... entertainment autospies relaunches as car-themed digg clone written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago autospies, the popular automotive site, has just relaunched as a full-blown digg clone. the new functionality was added after the acquisition of autocast technology, a web-ranking service that allows users to review, post and rate stories. the setup ... entertainment zooomr gives free pro accounts to bloggers, why not myspace users? written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago zooomr is doing something nice: they're giving free pro accounts to bloggers. all you need to do is post a zooomr image on your blog and add a link to the comments section of this post. it's a neat marketing move that's sure to earn them more fans in... entertainment mixi, japan's biggest social network written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago mixi, which launched in february 2004, is the biggest social networking site in japan. what's more, it's growing rapidly. as of july 2006, the site has 4.8 millon users: an increase of 2 million since january. around 70% of those users are "active" (... ← previous 1 2 3 4 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.