we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for june 2006 entertainment myfeedz - social news overload written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago myfeedz is another news 2.0 service that aims to filter and prioritize news based on your interests. it's currently in private beta. from the site: myfeedz is a social newspaper. it brings news and blog posts that matter to you in your web browser, b... entertainment nowpublic gets $1.4 million written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago nowpublic, the social news site i first reviewed back in january, has raised $1.4 million in an angel round. the company claims to rival korean phenomenon ohmynews in terms of traffic, but the alexa data fails to impress. meanwhile, rival newsvine se... entertainment gnoos launches aussie blog search written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago gnoos, ben barren's aussie blog search engine, launched today. the service allows you to search the entire blogosphere, or limit your search to australian blogs. the design is neat and the results don't seem too bad at all. the question is: what's th... entertainment new video tagging services: veotag and click.tv written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago veotag and click.tv are two new contenders in the video tagging space. they'll soon be joined by motionbox, a similar service that offers both deep-tagging and video remixing (ala jumpcut and eyespot). the idea is to let users tag individual sections... entertainment sixapart launches vox, other properties stagnating? written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago vox, sixapart's new blogging service crossed with a social network, rolled out an invite-only beta yesterday (you can still browse the site without an invite). and while the platform itself is very impressive, some are concerned that sixapart will ne... entertainment tagworld widgets feed the myspace beast written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago tagworld, the feature-rich myspace alternative, is making some smart moves. today they released tagworld widgets, a service that aims to increase tagworld's reach by extending the brand into other social networks - in other words, feeding the myspace... entertainment etsy gets funded by web's all-stars written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago etsy, the online marketplace for handmade items, received a small funding round last week. the participants included flickr founders stewart butterfield and caterina fake, del.icio.us founder joshua schachter, albert wenger (former president of del.i... entertainment google spreadsheets goes live written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago google just posted a tour of google spreadsheets, their new excel rival. they're also inviting users to test the service on a first-come-first-served basis. it looks blissfully simple, and includes live chat, multi-user editing and import/export func... entertainment musical chairs 2.0 written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago it seems like everyone is either moving on or moving up today. bloglines founder mark fletcher just announced that he's leaving ask/bloglines to pursue new projects, while tara "miss rogue" hunt has left riya and plans to focus on her own company, pi... entertainment mynumo - mobile content marketplace written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago mynumo is a marketplace for user-generated mobile content - ringtones, wallpaper and videos. it's a neat idea and they seem to be on the right track. from the site: mynumo is an online community that enables it's members to create, show, and sell mob... entertainment juicecaster - mobile social network written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago juice wireless, creators of the moblogging platform juicecaster, just raised $4m in a round led by 21ventures. the company was founded by david herman, creator of the hollywood stock exchange. from the site: juicecaster is a product of juice wireless... entertainment myspace dating made easy written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago datinganyone helps you track the dating status of people on your myspace friends list, and presumably catch them on the rebound. when there's a change in your friend's status, you're sent an email alert. the service doesn't log in as you - it simply ... entertainment panjea - myspace with revenue sharing? written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago panjea is a new social network that aims to pay users for their contributions. members are paid a percentage of the ad revenue from their pages, as well as earning points for simply using the site. additionally, you can earn money by selling your mus... entertainment rightcart is a novel idea written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago i've no idea whether rightcart will be successful, but the concept is certainly an interesting one. the service is essentially a distributed shopping cart - you can put a widget on your website, blog or social networking profile and sell items direct... entertainment gusto.com gets funding written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago gusto, a community-based travel service out of springfield, mo, just raised $3 million in funding from dhst llc (plus $1 million from jeff wasson, the ceo). the site allows users to share travel info with their family and friends - you can add people... entertainment say no to magnoto written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago i hate to be negative twice in one day, but i'm not crazy about magnoto. the service, which launched in february, is a cross between a blogging platform and an ajax start page. they announced a mobile version yesterday, but frankly i'm concerned abou... entertainment when typepad met feedburner written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago typepad's new partnership with feedburner is getting a lot of love from the blogosphere. the new setup allows typepad users to move all their existing subscribers to their feedburner feed with minimal effort. it's a smart move, and i hope that they'l... entertainment scrapblog ain't too scrappy written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago scrapblog, which launched back in march, aims to combine scrapbooking with blogging (well, duh!). you create pages using the flash-based scraplog builder, a tool that lets you position, rotate and resize images, add a background, frame your photos an... entertainment habbohotel to hit $77m in sales this year written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago habbohotel, the popular animated chatroom, is on track to hit sales of $77m this year, according to danny rimer of index ventures. the site is run by finnish company sulake, which was founded in 2000 and employs 250 people. habbo is broadly similar t... entertainment umundo - upload cellphone videos to myspace written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago umundo is yet another service that's feeding the myspace beast. after capturing a video clip or picture on your cellphone, you can send it to video@umundo.com. when you get home, enter your phone number on the site and grab the code to post your vide... entertainment radar.net is the anti-flickr written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago radar is a new mobile photo sharing application - but unlike its rivals, it's designed for sharing among a select group of friends. when you sign up, you get a unique radar.net email address to send your images to - you can then invite friends to vie... entertainment google video still trails youtube written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago google video just rolled out a series of new features. the fresh stuff includes a movers and shakers list, which allows you to explore popular videos by country. the home page has also been reorganized - there's now a "recently uploaded" section and ... entertainment ebay and kaboodle partner on mycollectibles written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago ebay and kaboodle have joined forces to create a new service, mycollectibles, which launches officially on monday. they've also put up an about me page for the service on ebay, but this simply links back to the homepage right now. at first glance, th... entertainment podtech.net gets scobleized written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago robert scoble is leaving microsoft to join john furrier's podcasting startup, podtech.net. it's been reported that he'll take up the position of "corporate evangelist". although silicon valley watcher suggests that scoble was unhappy at microsoft, sc... entertainment scooplive and cell journalist pay cash for your cellphone photos written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago two new startups entered the citizen journalism space this week, both of them vying to sell your cellphone photos to big media. paris-based scooplive is offering an auction system for cellphone snaps, while cell journalist wants to sell celebrity sho... entertainment digg's new verticals to launch this month written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago digg founder kevin rose has confirmed that the social news site will launch new verticals in the next month or so. the expansion has been common knowledge since late 2005, but until now there was no timescale. at the ebay developers conference in las... entertainment 30 boxes launches webtop, an ajax start page written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago 30 boxes, the online calendaring startup, just launched a new ajax start page called webtop. the service allows you to add links to your favorite web services including gmail, flickr, facebook, myspace, webshots, meebo and your 30 boxes calendar. the... entertainment tripmates launches - more travel 2.0 written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago tripmates, based in los angeles, is another new travel community. you can add friends, plan upcoming trips, write a blog, review restaurants, hotels and landmarks and exchange messages with other users. all this information is displayed publicly on a... entertainment intellitxt launches (annoying) video ads written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago it's not just google that's getting into the video advertising space: vibrantmedia, the makers of intellitxt, expanded the service today by launching intellitxt video. intellitxt, you might remember, creates those extremely annoying, double-underline... entertainment scooptwords sells your blog content for cash written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago scooptwords is a new service that aims to sell your blog content to print media. scottish startup scoopt was one of the first agencies to sell cellphone photos to media companies (along with spymedia), so the expansion to blog content makes sense. th... ← previous 1 2 3 4 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.