we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for august 2013 culture don't cross streams with this 'my little pony' proton pack written by brie hiramine over 6 years ago in the ghostbusters universe, proton packs are weapons used to help weaken and capture pesky ghosts. while this my little pony: friendship is magic-themed iteration won't banish unwanted specters, it's proof that friendship is magic. judson hudson bu... entertainment youtube sensation 'kickalicious' impresses at nfl training camp written by sam laird over 6 years ago youtube sensation "kickalicious" earned an nfl training camp invite for his trick-kick prowess and his killing it in his one shot at pro football. entertainment travel back in time with facebook's newest feature written by emily price over 6 years ago facebook's on this day feature lets you view your news feed from a year ago. entertainment studio trick pushes movie titles to front of alphabet written by quartz over 6 years ago for many movies these days, the shortest route to the top of the charts is through the alphabet. film studios have figured out that, all else being equal, it's better for a movie to appear toward the top of the a-to-z listings where people increasing... entertainment smart tooth knows your eating and talking habits written by vignesh ramachandran over 6 years ago someday, you won't have a way to fudge the facts when it comes to your unhealthy habits. a new smart tooth sensor knows when you've been eating or talking too much. researchers at national taiwan university in taipei designed a tooth-sized "wearable ... tech micro-led display could power next generation of google glass written by laptop magazine over 6 years ago google glass hasn't even hit the mainstream yet, but that hasn't stopped taiwanese researchers from working on micro led display technology for the next generation of wearable computers. at display taiwan 2013, taiwan's industrial technology research... entertainment bradley cooper and jennifer lawrence reunite in 'american hustle' trailer written by vignesh ramachandran over 6 years ago hollywood favorites bradley cooper and jennifer lawrence are reuniting on the silver screen in acclaimed director david o. russell's american hustle. in it, the silver linings playbook duo join an all-star cast that includes christian bale, jeremy re... business forget mobile payments, here's why cash is still king written by todd wasserman over 6 years ago it's starting to feel anachronistic to whip out old-fashioned greenbacks to make a payment, these days. if you're used to using a debit or credit card almost exclusively, it may seem almost quaint to make purchases with paper and metal, especially wh... tech comedy central debuts stand-up app for xbox 360 written by adam popescu over 6 years ago fans of comedy central are getting a new way to laugh out loud as the network launches a stand-up app for xbox 360. cc:stand-up turns your console's controller into a remote control to view new material and, for members of the online service xbox liv... entertainment twitter hotel redefines the social media vacation written by psfk over 6 years ago for vacationers seeking the solace of island life, disconnecting from a smartphone and all things tech is a welcome reprieve. but if your idea of paradise is mingling with other tweetaholics, then the "first twitter experience hotel" is for you. loca... world new high-res telescope captures stunning photo of andromeda galaxy written by space.com over 6 years ago a new portrait of the milky way's neighbor, andromeda, shows our twin galaxy as we've never seen it before -- thanks to a new instrument on japan's subaru telescope at the summit of hawaii's mauna kea. the instrument, called the hyper-suprime cam (hs... culture bob burnquist's dreamland is heaven for skateboarding fans written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago you've seen skateboarding videos, but you haven't seen anything like bob burnquist's dreamland. one of the best skateboarders in the world, burnquist built a skateboarding mega-ramp in his backyard in southern california. now, he released an 8:30-min... tech 20 best free windows 7 software platforms written by max knoblauch over 6 years ago good software platforms don't necessarily need to come with high price tags. check out our list of the 20 best free applications for windows 7. entertainment these 13 back-to-school outfits are a blast from the past written by hannah orenstein over 6 years ago first impressions count for a lot. you might think about that in your daily life now as you interview for jobs and go on first dates, but you learned the importance of that lesson when you were just a kid. after a summer apart, a killer back-to-schoo... tech new ipad mini will have retina screen, report claims written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago apple is planning to release a new ipad mini with a retina screen in the fourth quarter of 2013, the wall street journal reports citing people familiar with the matter. no other specifics about the device have been revealed, except that it may come i... entertainment the evolution of facebook mobile written by taylor casti over 6 years ago facebook mobile has changed drastically since its inception in 2007. here's a look back at some of the key moments in the social giant's mobile history. culture 8 moments of cultural confusion on tumblr written by molly horan over 6 years ago scrolling through your tumblr feed can lead to a lot of questions, both surface and deeply philosophical. is it impossible to watch a gif of a cat jumping onto a beanbag without smiling? can you paint with all the colors of the wind, and if so what k... tech 3 products to kick your cellphone addiction written by amy-mae elliott over 6 years ago are you addicted to your cellphone? or do you know someone who needs an intervention about their mobile dependence? we have some interesting innovations that can help. we've found three ways of putting handsets out of reach, forcing you (or your mobi... business the anti-snapchat: app saves sent pics and videos written by todd wasserman over 6 years ago you may want to think twice about sending that pic or video over snapchat. a new $1.99 app from sepia software called screenshot save for snapchat does exactly what it promises -- it keeps those potentially embarrassing images on hand forever. in sep... culture 35 delightful bento boxes that beat your pb&j written by brie hiramine over 6 years ago lunch is a make-it-or break it event. after a long morning spent at work or school, you want to look forward to your midday meal -- especially if you're brown bagging it. so if your typical lunchtime fare is less-than-inspiring, take some cues from t... business hipmunk app now lets you search for last-minute hotel deals written by seth fiegerman over 6 years ago hipmunk is expanding its hotel listings with the introduction of a new feature thursday that lets users search for last-minute deals on lodging. the feature, called tonight only, is available as part of an update to hipmunk's ios and android apps. "t... tech how hackers can turn your android into a spyphone written by lorenzo franceschi-bicchierai over 6 years ago las vegas — all a relatively skilled hacker needs to do to turn an android smartphone into a powerful surveillance machine -- a so-called spyphone -- is to copy and paste some malicious code into an innocuous-looking app like angry birds, and then ge... world another top-secret nsa program exposed and other news you need to know written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago the guardian uncovered another national security agency surveillance program called xkeyscore. world snowden granted asylum in russia written by dhiya kuriakose over 6 years ago the russian government has granted edward snowden asylum for one year. he left moscow's sheremetyevo airport with wikileaks’s legal adviser sarah harrison. tech 5 best free antivirus software options written by jess fee over 6 years ago if you don't already have antivirus software installed on your computer, you're playing russian roulette with the internet. antivirus software protects your computer from malware, short for "malicious software." malware is the general term used for s... business pinterest now sends alerts when items you pin go on sale written by lauren indvik over 6 years ago pinterest announced thursday that it will now send users notifications when products they've pinned go on sale. business new york times ad sales down, digital subscriptions up written by todd wasserman over 6 years ago digital subscriptions rose, but those gains were mostly offset by a drop in advertising at the new york times co. in the second quarter, the company reported thursday. second-quarter circulation revenues rose 5.1% thanks to a boost in digital subscri... world london heathrow tracks travelers in airport to decrease delays written by psfk over 6 years ago passengers who are running late for flights can cause delays that not only affect flight schedules and other jet-setters, but also cost airlines a lot of money. to address this problem, heathrow airport has pioneered a new technology through its boar... business 40+ events in gamification, digital analytics and more written by sarah ang over 6 years ago they say great minds think alike. that’s why mashable's events board is here to help you make valuable connections -- when you attend your industry’s leading conferences, that is. whether you work in advertising, technology or media, we can help you ... world new york reimagined as a circular city written by psfk over 6 years ago the current mta subway map, based on the 1979 design by michael hertz associates, has become a celebrated hallmark of new york city -- aiding tourists and locals alike as they navigate the five boroughs. there may, however, be a better way to display... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 53 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.