we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for may 2014 image: facebook tech bye-bye browsers: why facebook's new app links are a big deal written by christina warren almost 6 years ago with app links, facebook wants to make linking between applications a reality. entertainment 'the internet's own boy': aaron swartz documentary trailer debuts written by lorenzo franceschi-bicchierai almost 6 years ago watch the latest trailer of the documentary about the later coder and digital rights activist aaron swartz. image: flickr, titanas tech new motorola smartphone to be revealed in may written by adario strange almost 6 years ago despite recent major changes at motorola, it seems the company still has a few surprises in store -- namely a new class of smartphone. following in the smartphone footsteps of the moto x and moto g, the new, as yet unnamed smartphone is set to make i... culture artist turns classic works of art into 8-bit masterpieces written by andrea romano almost 6 years ago artist adam lister combines the art world with the video game world by taking famous paintings and images from pop culture and painting them as 8-bit graphics. protesters gathered on the yellowstone county courthouse lawn in billings, mont. thursday aug. 29, 2013, calling for the resignation of a state judge over comments he made about the teenage victim in a rape case. image: matt brown/associated press world montana supreme court overturns one-month sentence in rape case written by ann-marie alcántara almost 6 years ago after national outcry, the montana supreme court ruled that stacey dean rambold would be re-sentenced and given a new judge in the rape of a 14-year old. facebook ceo mark zuckerberg discusses the social network's new login during his keynote address at the f8 developer conference in san francisco, april 30, 2014. image: mashable, karissa bell entertainment what facebook's new login means for developers written by karissa bell almost 6 years ago a look at how facebook's new login will affect developers, and the steps they will need to take to ensure their apps comply with facebook's new standards. toronto mayor rob ford speaks to the media at his office door on the afternoon that documents of the arrest of his former driver and campaign worker alessandro lisi were to be released. image: richard lautens / contributor / toronto star world toronto mayor rob ford to take leave of absence, get help for substance abuse written by anita li almost 6 years ago this story was updated most recently at 12:58 p.m. et on may 1. toronto -- toronto mayor rob ford confirmed he is taking a temporary leave from his job and the mayoral election campaign, after new videos allegedly showing ford smoking crack cocaine a... president barack obama walks with white house chief of staff denis mcdonough down the west wing colonnade of the white house in washington, feb. 12, 2013. business executives say walking during meetings leads to good decision-making written by bloomberg almost 6 years ago when darren huston, chief executive officer of the priceline group, has a decision to discuss with one of his managers, he often heads outdoors for a walking meeting, away from the hubbub of his open office in amsterdam. “walking clears my brain,” he... drake performs at the &quot;made in america&quot; music festival on sunday, sept. 2, 2012, in philadelphia, pa. image: charles sykes/invision/associated press entertainment raptors give out lint rollers to fans who want to roll like drake written by sam laird almost 6 years ago it's not as complicated as it sounds. just trust us. image: mashable composite. istock, filo world young democrats more active than republicans on social media, study says written by melissa goldin almost 6 years ago young democrats are more active than republicans on almost every major social-media platform, according to a new study published tuesday by harvard's institute of politics. google+ presented the largest split -- 52% of democrats polled have an accoun... image: mashable, christina ascani entertainment how twitter's engagement growth has changed over two years written by matt petronzio almost 6 years ago timeline views, twitter's preferred metric for engagement, saw a 15% year-over-year growth in the first quarter of 2014. however, the company reported a larger growth – 26% year-over-year – in the fourth quarter of 2013. image: flickr, phong nguyen u.s. the top 10 u.s. summer travel destinations for 2014 written by jessica plautz almost 6 years ago it was a long winter, but warm weather is finally in sight. about 89% of people in the united states are planning a summer trip this year, according to a new survey from tripadvisor (that's a 6% increase compared to survey results from last year). tr... culture improv everywhere participants handcuffed after prank goes awry written by melissa goldin almost 6 years ago an improv everywhere prank at a manhattan gap store earlier this month featured some unexpected players after a manager called police to report a flash mob. participants entered the store's fifth avenue location wearing white morphsuits underneath ga... &quot;people first&quot;: mark zuckerberg talks privacy at f8. image: karissa bell, mashable entertainment facebook's 'anonymous login' is evil genius written by chris taylor almost 6 years ago earlier this year we started to see the privacy dinosaur, a cheery blue barney-like fellow who pops up on facebook to remind us that we have the option of setting our posts to "public" or just letting our friends see them. on wednesday at f8, the company went beyond dinosaurs in the evolution of its approach to privacy by introducing "anonymous login." kurt cobain, courtney love and daughter frances bean cobain at the mtv video music awards on september 2, 1993. image: ron galella entertainment note found in kurt cobain's wallet: true scorn or inside-joke love letter? written by josh dickey almost 6 years ago we’ll probably never really know the intent of the note that was found in kurt cobain’s wallet -- the one that appears to badly disparage courtney love. in this wednesday, oct. 17, 2012, file photo, an at&amp;t logo is displayed on an at&amp;t wireless retail store front, in philadelphia. a&amp;t has reportedly been in talks with directv about an acquisition of the satellite tv provider. image: matt rourke/associated press business does at&t want to buy directv in a $40 billion deal? written by jason abbruzzese almost 6 years ago telecommunications giant at&t has made inquiries to directv about a possible acquisition of the satellite tv provider, according to a report. culture these tiny tattoos kick your sleeve in the armpit written by laura vitto almost 6 years ago seattle-based photographer austin tott recognizes the simple beauty of small, delicate body ink in his series "tiny tattoos." image: don bradshaw world whale of a mess: small town fears beached carcass will explode written by anita li almost 6 years ago a small canadian town of 600 people is dealing with a colossal 60-ton problem. culture high-speed photos of bullets piercing water look almost impossible written by andrea romano almost 6 years ago it's almost impossible to believe that one person can orchestrate such magical-looking images, but the power of augusteijn's technology, and perhaps a little bit of physics know-how, allows him to be in four places at once. image: mashable composite. istockphoto frankramspott, wikimedia commons entertainment youtube creators can now add a 3-second intro to all their videos written by stan schroeder almost 6 years ago youtube has added a new feature for content creators: they can now add a 3-second intro to all their videos. the intro will automatically start on videos on their channel. google docs and sheets apps, now available for ios and android, let you create and edit documents and spreadsheets. image: google tech google launches standalone docs and sheets apps for ios and android written by stan schroeder almost 6 years ago google has launched standalone docs and sheets apps for ios and android, letting you create and edit documents and spreadsheets on your mobile devices. slides app, which will let you do the same to presentations, is coming "soon." image: flickr, houang stephane tech heartbleed attacks are completely undetectable on old android os written by bloomberg almost 6 years ago three weeks after most of the web protected its computers from the heartbleed internet bug, there are lingering threats. entertainment can this ipad app improve your vision? written by max knoblauch almost 6 years ago the ultimeyes app claims to improve even perfect vision. we put it to the test. entertainment 11 glamping essentials for the unadventurous written by dennis green almost 6 years ago these essentials will help you tolerate nature. because regular, old campfires are so passé. snapchat adds chat and instant messaging. image: snapchat tech snapchat adds video chat, instant messaging written by stan schroeder almost 6 years ago snapchat has announced two hugely important features, transforming the photo sharing app into a far more versatile affair: video chat and instant messaging. image: flickr, kirsty andrews social good 4 ways to reach out for mental health help anonymously written by yohana desta almost 6 years ago when you need help, these anonymous hotlines, chat rooms, communities and apps are here for you. image: mashable culture here's every costume spider-man has ever worn written by bob al-greene almost 6 years ago spider-man has had his share of costume changes over the years. the web-slinging wall crawler has worn black, white and armored suits -- even a ruffled collar. culture 16 ideas for the wedding of your childhood dreams written by andrea romano almost 6 years ago you're a grown up. but, you are still a kid at heart. even adults love to have fun, so why not plan the wedding that your inner child would approve of? relatives of chinese passengers on board the malaysia airlines flight 370 pray at a hotel conference room in beijing, china, friday, april 18, 2014. image: ng han guan/associated press world malaysia airlines tells grieving families to go home and wait written by amanda wills almost 6 years ago malaysia airlines told families of the missing passengers on flight 370 to return to their homes and wait for updates from there, according to a statement the airline released on thursday. while malaysia airlines is committed to continuing its suppor... in this photo taken from the royal new zealand air force (rnzaf) p-3k2-orion aircraft, a spotter looks out of a window in search of debris from the missing malaysia airlines flight 370. a report on the search for the plane was released on may 1. image: greg wood, pool/associated press world malaysia's first report on flight 370 reveals 4-hour search gap written by amanda wills almost 6 years ago malaysian authorities released their preliminary report on the missing flight 370 on thursday. you can read it here. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 57 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.