we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for march 2014 warning shot: tim cook on stage at apple's worldwide developer's conference in june. image: eric risberg/associated press business tim cook to climate skeptic group: get out of apple stock written by chris taylor about 6 years ago apple ceo tim cook has not been known for taking a strong stand on, well, just about anything. caution has been the watchword of cook's three-year tenure at the top of the world's wealthiest technology company. so far his legacy is largely comprised ... image: mashable, nina frazier hansen tech when google glass haters attack written by pete pachal about 6 years ago one of the more troubling technology stories to come out of the past week is the assault on sarah slocum, a san francisco-based tech enthusiast and writer, who was apparently targeted because she was wearing google glass in a bar. like many incidents... image: flickr, garrett heath entertainment twitter's user growth is tapering off very quickly written by matt petronzio about 6 years ago year-over-year growth of twitter's monthly active users is declining quickly, both globally and in the u.s. at its peak, within the past three years, twitter grew internationally by more than 140%. however, as of q4 2013, that growth is just under 40... culture best picture nominees sing for the oscar written by molly socha about 6 years ago oscar night is no stranger to grandiose musical performances inspired by the nominated films. but what would the awkward sex scenes from her between joaquin phoenix and scarlet johansson's voice sound like as a broadway-inspired musical number? award... tech google maps dives into world oceans for underwater street views written by alex magdaleno about 6 years ago the google maps team has announced the addition of new underwater street view images in locations around mexico with the help of the catlin seaview survey, an organization documenting the world's declining coral reefs via high-resolution, underwater ... image: mashable composite, istock dacian_g, kycstudio world uk spy agency yahoo webcam spying: what you need to know written by lorenzo franceschi-bicchierai about 6 years ago if you used yahoo messenger to video chat with your friends or strangers between 2008 and 2012 -- and perhaps even later -- british spies might have a collection of screenshots of your most intimate online conversations. the gchq, the british equival... entertainment beyonce's nsfw 'partition' video dominates youtube written by neha prakash about 6 years ago driver roll down the partition please, it's getting way too steamy in here. beyonce released the official video to "partition" on her youtube channel tuesday, and it's a hot one. the video was technically released on dec. 3, along with 16 other video... world watch obama and joe biden go for a leisurely white house jog written by neha prakash about 6 years ago sorry congress, you're going to have to wait on that bill. obama's got some moving to do. in a recent video uploaded to the let's move campaign's youtube channel, we're given a glimpse of how the president and vice president get their blood pumping. ... bitcoin trader kolin burges stands in protest outside an office building housing mt. gox in tokyo on feb. 26, 2014. image: shizuo kambayashi/associated press world bankrupt mt. gox facing class-action suit over bitcoin disappearance written by fran berkman about 6 years ago the mountain of trouble that has been piling up for mt. gox just got even larger. once the largest bitcoin exchange in the world, mt. gox shut its digital doors and later filed for bankruptcy this week after losing hundreds of millions of dollars wor... three storm chasers set up equipment on the side of an oklahoma road to capture a tornado producing film on may 19, 2010. image: sue ogrocki/associated press world the high-risk world of instagram storm chasers written by max knoblauch about 6 years ago jason bagby has followed extreme storms across the country for over a year. like many of his fellow storm chasers, bagby is prolific on instagram. modern storm chasing, particularly in the u.s., has seen bouts of rapid expansion since its inception i... image: gerald herbert/associated press entertainment is it possible to shield my baby from technology? written by jeana lee tahnk about 6 years ago when i think back to my first pregnancy nearly a decade ago, i marvel at how different things were back then. those precious nine months were actually tracked in a book, and not via pregnancy apps. i talked to my friends about morning sickness instea... chiwetel ejiofor as solomon northrop in '12 years a slave' image: ap photo/fox searchlight films jaap buitendijk entertainment make your predictions for oscars 2014 written by connor finnegan about 6 years ago in the week leading up to the academy awards, we all like to put on our film critic hats and confidently predict which movies will win big. and while none of us can know for certain which films and actors will take home the evening's major awards, th... image: bioware entertainment 5 video games that would make amazing tv shows written by samuel axon about 6 years ago many video games have been adapted into films, but good video game-film adaptations are few and far between. but when you think about it, some games are better suited for ongoing television dramas -- especially those with a strong sense of place, wor... people hold candles as they attend the funeral cermony of a victim of the recent clashes with the riot police on kiev's independence square on march 1, 2014. pro-russian forces tightened their grip on crimea on march 1, 2014 as the kremlin vowed to help restore calm on the restive ukrainian peninsula and washington warned of 'costs' to moscow should it order in troops. image: bulent kilic world tensions escalate as putin gets permission to deploy military in ukraine written by christopher miller about 6 years ago update: march 1, 5:45 p.m. est: russian president vladimir putin spoke with u.s. president barack obama for 90 minutes today regarding the escalating situation in ukraine. russian pres putin speaks with pres obama, tells him #russia reserves right to... image: simon q entertainment 14 movies every tech geek will love written by yohana desta about 6 years ago technology plays a big role in the film industry, but every once in a while, it gets to be the star. these 14 movies are all tech-themed, from the dystopian days of gattaca, to the twitchy, neurotic drama the social network. take a retro dive into ki... culture an emoji guide to the 2014 best picture oscar nominees written by jessica catcher about 6 years ago if you haven't had a chance to see all nine of the academy awards best picture nominees this year, don't worry. in celebration of the prestige and honor each oscar statuette represents, we've compiled summaries of each film that's up for the big priz... u.s. a wisconsin man puts his vacation home for sale in dogecoins written by alex magdaleno about 6 years ago one user of the meme-inspired, virtual currency, dogecoin, could be a future home owner. matt thomspon, 27, is selling his vacation home (not pictured) in wisconsin for 100 million dogecoins, or about $135,000. after not receiving any offers for his ... image: deviant art jay simmons culture where would you live on this map of the internet? written by brian koerber about 6 years ago if there was a map of the internet, which country would you call home? this fascinating map was created by slovakian student and amateur graphic design artist martin vargic, who often goes by the pseudonym jay simons, and he left no detail untouched.... image: mashable, will fenstermaker entertainment 5 apps you don't want to miss written by karissa bell about 6 years ago with all the new gadgets out of mobile world congress in barcelona this week, many of the newest apps may have slipped by. luckily, mashable creates a roundup each weekend of our favorite new and updated apps, so you won't miss out. from a new tamago... image: flickr, darron fick tech mercedes, ferrari and volvo to debut apple in-car system, report says written by adario strange about 6 years ago apple's promise to bring ios to the automobile industry last year are finally coming to fruition, according to a report in the financial times that claims mercedes benz, volvo and ferrari will debut the system in march. the official announcement will... a b61 nuclear bomb. image: flickr, dave bezaire and susi havens-bezaire world upgraded u.s. nukes may violate nation's own policy written by colin daileda about 6 years ago the united states air force is upgrading b61 nuclear bombs stationed across europe. those upgrades may violate the nation's own nuclear regulations. the b61 is a cold war relic built in 1961 but new upgrades would give the bombs an internal guidance ... entertainment bruce springsteen reinterprets lorde's 'royals' written by pat gillespie about 6 years ago lorde's hit song "royals" has many renditions on youtube, but none quite like bruce springsteen's. the boss sang the new zealand pop star's single saturday at his concert in auckland, n.z. bruce played it without the band, and he rocked it with an ac... video: youtube, japan ministry of internal affairs and communications tech this wearable computer is like google glass for your ears written by adario strange about 6 years ago a new kind of wearable computer has been created that immediately evokes images of the ear-mounted pc worn by joaquin phoenix in the recent film her. created by hiroshima city university staffer kazuhiro taniguchi, the prototype device's interface us... tech high schooler's research could aid color blind users online written by melissa goldin about 6 years ago new research conducted by an indian high school student could help make visual content online more accessible to color blind users. animesh tripathi, 17, is investigating algorithms that could determine how to most effectively adjust color schemes on... image: mashable, pete pachal tech book profiles apple's tim cook as 'relentlessly frugal' with 'inhuman stamina' written by adario strange about 6 years ago as the head of one of the most successful companies on the planet, apple's tim cook is scrutinized perhaps more than any other ceo. now some of that scrutiny has been focused and edited into a new book called haunted empire: apple after steve jobs. w... beyonce performs a show during her 2013 world tour. image: robin harper/invision/ap/associated press entertainment surprise! 12 musicians who ignore traditional publicity written by yohana desta about 6 years ago kid cudi, the rapper best known for his hit song "pursuit of happiness," has pulled a beyoncé. on feb. 24, he released a surprise album, titled satellite flight: the journey to mother moon, not too unlike a certain diva who released her self-titled w... daytime talk-show personality ellen degeneres returns to host the oscars on march 2. she previously hosted the 79th academy awards in 2007. image: andrew eccles/abc entertainment oscars 2014: your complete list of all performers and presenters written by brian anthony hernandez about 6 years ago los angeles -- as host of the 86th academy awards, ellen degeneres will be steering a barrage of celebrities onstage sunday to present the coveted oscar statuettes. they will join several musicians, who will perform tunes from the best song category ... entertainment 10 famous film locations revisited in google street view written by max knoblauch about 6 years ago why spend time and money on costly film tours when you can just use google street view? when coupled with a bit of research, the interactive service is perfect for exploring iconic locations from your favorite films. below, we've found a few famous s... michael cera (left) and jonah hill (right) star in a silly parody of the movie, 'her.' video: youtube, nbc entertainment the 6 best parodies of spike jonze's 'her' written by yohana desta about 6 years ago siri's got nothing on her. the spike jonze-directed love story tells the tale of a man who falls in love with his operating system. though it's laughable on paper, it's actually a heartwarming flick that's been nominated for five academy awards, incl... image: istockphoto, thornberry business your next job application could be via smartphone written by sharlyn lauby about 6 years ago according to kiplinger’s economic outlooks, 2.3 million new net jobs will be created in the u.s. in 2014. add that to a recent careerbuilder survey, which indicates two in five professionals plan to change jobs before the end of the year, and get rea... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 51 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.