we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for august 2016 australian formula one driver daniel ricciardo drinks champagne out of a shoe, because australia. image: mark thompson/getty images culture aussie f1 driver daniel ricciardo celebrates by drinking champagne from a shoe written by johnny lieu over 3 years ago straight out of an australian's 19th birthday party. image: neil gaiman via instagram tech neil gaiman uses prisma art app to post selfie on instagram written by adario strange over 3 years ago neil gaiman, the master of graphic novels, reveals on instagram that he's a fan of the prisma art app. image: mashable composite: instagram and lindsay lohan/instagram and hillary clinton/instagram and john stamos/instagram culture the dnc and relationship drama shined on instagram this week written by sophie hirsh over 3 years ago #nofilter image: pauline hanson/facebook culture aussie politician commentates her own bizarre documentary via facebook live written by jerico mandybur over 3 years ago huh? entertainment don't bore jean-claude van damme, otherwise he'll just walk out written by johnny lieu over 3 years ago "the press, they've been asking me the same questions for the last 25 years." image: hbo entertainment 'the night of' destroys alliances and tries to build more written by peter allen clark over 3 years ago naz gets some character and that character takes action a close-up view shows the head of a male kakapo (strigops habroptilus) image: getty images culture dancing kakapo gif takes over the imgur front page; wins all the hearts written by elise cooper over 3 years ago dancing their way out of extinction. justin timberlake bows to the audience as he accepts the decade award at the teen choice awards at the forum on sunday, july 31, 2016, in inglewood, calif. image: chris pizzello/invision/ap entertainment justin timberlake gives inspirational speech stressing diversity, honoring muhammad ali written by marcus gilmer over 3 years ago timberlake's speech hit all the right notes. a shot of the icarus craft while in flight. image: third man records/twitter entertainment jack white sent a playing record to the edge of space written by marcus gilmer over 3 years ago it was a project that was.... out of this world. uber in use in china. image: wang zhengwei/imaginechina world uber gets ready to take the backseat to didi chuxing in china written by victoria ho over 3 years ago uber is handing its business to china's didi chuxing, effectively conceding defeat. stacks of new book "harry potter and the cursed child" are displayed at a book store during its launch in singapore. image: roslan rahman/afp/getty images world hundreds of harry potter fans in asia turn up for 'cursed child' launch, keeping the magic alive written by alicia tan over 3 years ago bookstores in the region opened early on the big day. the force is strong with this entire country image: getty/mashable culture amount of australians listing the force as their religion is unnervingly large written by elise cooper over 3 years ago there are more jedis than there are some major religious groups, and atheists are freaking out. a fast food birthday cake is a truly epic creation image: milton lai culture fast food cake made from pizza and burgers is heaven and hell all at once written by johnny lieu over 3 years ago why? a video game competition between teams luminosity, left, and renegades, right, takes place in the eleague arena in atlanta. image: ap entertainment should trading in online gaming be considered gambling? written by ariel bogle over 3 years ago or is it a gateway? passengers at check-in counters at noi bai airport in hanoi, vietnam on friday, with blacked out screens. image: ap world hackers allegedly take over airport screens to blast insults about the south china sea written by victoria ho over 3 years ago the vietnamese airlines website was hacked as well, with 400,000 frequent fliers' details leaked. that's not where it is. image: the simpsons tech australia won't stop drifting so it needs to fix its gps coordinates written by ariel bogle over 3 years ago won't stop movin'. play it out: a bookstore employee and the hottest book of the year. image: rex features via ap entertainment 'harry potter and the cursed child' is a fitting swan song for the boy who lived written by chris taylor over 3 years ago the hottest book of the year isn't what you might expect, but it is definitely worth your time -- especially if you like thinking about time. this is a brilliant mug. image: twitter/@jk_rowling/mashable composite culture j.k. rowling received 2 absolutely perfect gifts for her birthday written by sam haysom over 3 years ago when you're the author of 'harry potter,' you get some creative presents. i do. image: frederik the great/facebook culture anti-marriage equality politicians are right: i do want to marry a horse one day written by jerico mandybur over 3 years ago aug. 1 is official 'horse birthday' and here's why i want to marry one. what is going on here. image: imgur/dsaaddons culture a seagull standing on top of a seagull is another one of nature's oddities written by johnny lieu over 3 years ago what is going on here. image: @paradigmgame/twitter entertainment designer mocks up 'stranger things' as a point-and-click video game written by alicia tan over 3 years ago blast from the past. culture badass pregnant woman pole dances between contractions because why not written by lindsay davis over 3 years ago "got a few hours before we go to the hospital so thought i'd do some pole between contractions." same. some fairly big names are absent from the new 'harry potter' story. image: shan he /imaginechina/reddit/mashable composite culture this character's absence from 'harry potter and the cursed child' has got people talking written by sam haysom over 3 years ago "i was looking forward to getting more of him." *sobs* image: twitter/mashable composite culture people are finishing the final 'harry potter' book and things are getting very emotional written by sam haysom over 3 years ago so many feelings. culture signs your friend just watched a ted talk written by derrick deblasis over 3 years ago "you gotta hack your body and your brain." the adelphi pub in dublin put a picture of donald trump in a very particular place. image: getty images / alex wong / mashable composite culture dublin pub takes the piss out of donald trump, literally written by lindsay davis over 3 years ago political commentary at its finest. culture john oliver recaps a 'topsy-turvy' democratic national convention written by andrea romano over 3 years ago "we may be on the brink of electing such a damaged, sociopathic narcissist that the simple presidential duty of comforting the families of fallen soldiers may be beyond his capabilities." youtubers caspar lee and ksi in "laid in america." image: the fun group entertainment 'american pie' meets 'the inbetweeners' in new movie starring youtubers ksi, caspar lee written by saba hamedy over 3 years ago warning: it's lewd. these eight women appeared in a campaign for a plus size lingerie collection celebrating diversity. image: curvy kate entertainment something remarkable happened when facebook banned these body positive, pro-diversity adverts written by rachel thompson over 3 years ago the ads were part of a campaign celebrating diversity. culture friendly volcano sends you a nice smiley emoji written by andrea romano over 3 years ago : ) ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 94 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.