we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for march 2011 entertainment drund gives devs & users all-in-one tool for connected devices written by jolie o'dell about 9 years ago dev shop azork launched monday drund, a broad, agnostic development and management platform for apps across all connected devices and browsers. the platform also has an aspect for users, allowing them to "manage their online life from any internet co... entertainment samsung to launch 8.9-inch galaxy tab on march 22? written by stan schroeder about 9 years ago samsung has announced a special march 22 event where it's very likely to unveil a new, 8.9-inch version of its galaxy tab tablet. the mobile unpacked event, announced on samsung's official facebook page, is set during ctia in orlando, fla., under the... entertainment startup lets you rent fine art, netflix-style written by sarah kessler about 9 years ago the spark of genius series highlights a unique feature of startups and is made possible by microsoft bizspark. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. name: artsicle quick pitch: artsicle is a net... entertainment apple, samsung & google: this morning's top stories written by lauren indvik about 9 years ago welcome to this morning’s edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. we’re keeping our eyes on three particular stories of interest today. apple has sold 1 million verizon iphones, ... entertainment google apologizes for gmail reset issue & promises quick fix written by stan schroeder about 9 years ago google is promising gmail users whose accounts reset this weekend that they will have their lost data restored. in an official blog post, google claims the problem affected less than 0.02% of gmail's user base, but it was a particularly nasty one as ... entertainment 4 inspiring small business video successes written by zachary sniderman about 9 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. when a large brand like pepsi or old spice decides to use video, there are... entertainment groupme users now can add location & share photos written by brenna ehrlich about 9 years ago group chat app groupme is out tuesday with a bevy of updates to its iphone and android offerings, including location- and photo-sharing. groupme launched to much buzz back in october as a way to easily create an instant sms chatroom on one's phone. t... entertainment clear channel radio acquires thumbplay's cloud-based music business written by brenna ehrlich about 9 years ago thumbplay has yet to reach its one-year anniversary in the music subscription space -- and it now it seems that it will never do so, as the company is selling the service to clear channel radio. a release that hit the wires last night did not disclos... entertainment hulu ceo predicts $500m in revenues this year written by todd wasserman about 9 years ago hulu will hit $500 million in advertising and subscription revenues this year, nearly doubling last year's take, ceo jason kilar said monday. kilar, who spoke at the internet advertising bureau's 2011 annual leadership meeting in palm springs, califo... entertainment rolls-royce unveils phantom 102ex, world's most luxurious electric car written by stan schroeder about 9 years ago looking for a luxury electric car, with utter disregard for the price? rolls-royce has got something for you: the phantom 102ex, an electric version of the company's top-of-the-line model. the car is powered by the world's largest electric car batter... entertainment evernote for iphone gets a facelift written by christina warren about 9 years ago the team at evernote released tuesday a brand new version of evernote for iphone and ipod touch. evernote 4 is available in the app store and it sports a complete redesign. the new design retains all the functionality of the old app while presenting ... entertainment emergency hotline service, sexting app & more find funding via twilio fund written by jennifer van grove about 9 years ago on tuesday, seed fund and startup accelerator 500 startups is announcing a batch of seven sms and voice-focused applications selected to its twilio fund. each is being awarded $10,000 in funding; one will receive an additional $50,000 and a spot in t... entertainment foodspotting comes to android written by jolie o'dell about 9 years ago foodspotting, the popular mobile app for foodies, has finally come to android. the app is available now on the android market for your food-finding pleasure and convenience. in addition to letting you find good food near you, the app also lets you ph... entertainment facebook releases robust updates to its comments plugin written by vadim lavrusik about 9 years ago facebook released its updated comments plugin today, which includes a robust set of new features. the social networking site also announced a set of publisher partners that will now integrate the plugin as their commenting platform of choice. the rob... entertainment examiner.com implements new facebook comments plugin written by todd wasserman about 9 years ago comments that you make on an examiner.com story will also show up in your facebook news feed, thanks to a deal between the two companies. examiner.com is one of several launch partners — including discovery.com, the economist, sportingnews.com, redbo... entertainment facebook will continue to share user addresses & numbers written by sarah kessler about 9 years ago facebook will continue a plan to share users' home addresses and cellphone numbers with third-party developers despite criticism from privacy advocates, users and members of congress. the social network announced an update to its platform in a januar... entertainment startup helps mitigate e-mail thread overload written by jennifer van grove about 9 years ago micromobs, a consumer-focused startup attempting to solve group communication challenges, is upgrading its product offering tuesday. users can now export entire group e-mail threads to micromobs to start group discussions and, in a perfect world, fre... entertainment wikileaks is up for a nobel peace prize written by jolie o'dell about 9 years ago wikileaks is among the 241 nobel peace prize nominees this year. the nominees come from 53 organizations and are greater in number than in any previous year. other nominees include the european union, former german chancellor helmut kohl, cuban dissi... entertainment boxee gets additional funding in its bid for living room domination written by christina warren about 9 years ago connected tv startup boxee announced tuesday that it has a closed a $16.5 million round of funding. the round was led by pitango and softbank, and included previous investors general catalyst, spark capital and union square ventures. boxee raised $6 ... entertainment travel startup hipmunk adds hotels to popular flight search written by jolie o'dell about 9 years ago y combinator-backed startup hipmunk has added an oft-requested feature to its service: hotel search. now, in addition to searching for affordable and convenient flights through the site's visually stimulating interface, users can also tack on a hotel... entertainment facebook acquires group messaging startup beluga written by jolie o'dell about 9 years ago facebook has snapped up yet another tech startup. tuesday's acquisition is beluga, a startup that allows users to send instant group messages, photos and location information across multiple platforms. the startup's offering is comparable to other ap... entertainment 6 mobile games that beat playing on a console written by chris taylor about 9 years ago the social gaming development series is supported by level 3 communications, an international provider of fiber-based communications services. level 3 is committed to carrying digital media from anywhere to anywhere, in whatever format needed. the ki... entertainment mtv & rhapsody offering consumers 60 days of free music written by brenna ehrlich about 9 years ago starting tuesday, music lovers can sign up for 60 days of free access to music subscription service rhapsody, thanks to a promotion with mtv. usually, trial periods for music subscription services are about seven to 14 days, so this is a pretty big o... entertainment coca-cola to help maroon 5 crowdsource a new song written by todd wasserman about 9 years ago coca-cola will help maroon 5 crowdsource material in a program that gives the band 24 hours to come up with a new song. the session, set for march 22, live from london, will use an interactive project technology to let fans interact with the band at ... entertainment 6 top tips for managing a coworking space written by amy-mae elliott about 9 years ago we recently brought you some best practices for working with others in coworking spaces. but there's another side to the coworking coin. in this post we offer advice for those involved in the management of such premises. we have spoken to experienced... entertainment loopt brings real-time rewards alerts to sxsw written by christina warren about 9 years ago the location-based service loopt is introducing a new feature that will alert users of nearby deals or rewards, and it's launching at sxsw interactive. the feature, called rewards alerts, combines elements of the loopt rewards system with the app's p... entertainment can a startup "field guide to the web" compete with youtube & ehow? written by sarah kessler about 9 years ago the web is a big, constantly changing place that — for many — requires instructions. startup grovo launched a site in october that offers these instructions with high-quality, free videos about popular web apps like mint, amazon and twitter. on tuesd... entertainment youtube video of the day: the king's speech gets remixed written by brenna ehrlich about 9 years ago best picture loser the social network may have spawned its share of parodies, but has it, pray tell, inspired a truly epic remix? that's an area (aside from the obvious) where oscar winner the king's speech has the "facebook movie" beat. bonus: this ... entertainment bank of america online banking is down on bill day [updated] written by sarah kessler about 9 years ago bank of america customers are unable to log in to their online bank accounts tuesday. the site has been slow since monday, and sometime today made its online banking services "temporarily unavailable." update: one mashable reader found a work-around.... entertainment 10 ways to turn your local business into a global success written by jani penttinen about 9 years ago jani penttinen is a founder and ceo of premiumfanpage, a service that helps brands connect with their fans in any language, and xiha, a multilingual social network with users in more than 200 countries speaking 140 languages. he blogs at janipenttine... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 30 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.