we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for february 2013 entertainment is sony launching a new playstation next month? written by emily price about 7 years ago could sony finally be unveiling the playstation 4? the company is holding an event feb. 20 to talk about the future of playstation. announced via its twitter account, a page for the event simply shows the date and time of the event (6 p.m. est) along... entertainment swimsuit model blasts body image 'haters' on twitter written by sam laird about 7 years ago nina agdall is a beautiful woman. she's also on the skinny side. but she won't stand for critics and took to twitter on thursday to set the record straight. tech mega's first search engine gets blocked written by lorenzo franceschi-bicchierai about 7 years ago kim dotcom's new sharing website mega got a little closer to resembling its old, closed-down version, megaupload on wednesday. anonymous users launched a search engine that indexes files uploaded on the new sharing service, potentially making it easi... culture 8th grader has best breakup line ever written by neha prakash about 7 years ago photo courtesy of imgur "it's not you it's me. i just need some space to work on myself. it's really just the timing. you deserve someone better." puh-lease. those breakup lines aren't foolin' anyone. we've all heard 'em, we've all used 'em. it's tim... entertainment super bowl monday? man petitions to create football holiday written by businessnewsdaily about 7 years ago one man has petitioned the white house to make the day after the super bowl into a national holiday. culture r2-d2 heels! need these, you do written by chris taylor about 7 years ago ladies and gentlemen, presenting the winner of star wars item of the week: r2-d2 shoes for ladies. these beauties, featuring r2s clinging to their heels and a blinking r2-like front panel up on the foot, showed up wednesday on instructables -- a site... culture vinecats: the purrfect way to view vine? written by emily price about 7 years ago feeling down? this site is guaranteed to put you in a good mewd. meet vinecats, a vine aggregator that shows nine random six-second cat videos, in a grid, all the time. the creation of q30 design, the site’s home page shows 9 different cats vines at ... entertainment top 10 twitter pics of the week written by eric larson about 7 years ago see which pictures were shared and retweeted across twitter the most this week. culture puppies adorably predict super bowl winner written by neha prakash about 7 years ago if you're betting on the outcome of this year's super bowl, we think we've found a way to zone in on the winning choice. puppy predicting -- a long practiced and perfected art -- uses a streamlined mathematical formula which promises 100 percent guar... tech mini-drone will watch wherever you go written by lorenzo franceschi-bicchierai about 7 years ago if you're one of those people who feel the urge to document each and every breathing moment of your life, but think it's annoying to have to get out your smartphone to snap pictures and upload them every time, you're in luck. thanks to startup always... culture the apple versus android war song written by neha prakash about 7 years ago haven't you heard? it's not just a phone, it's a war. so pick a side and choose wisely. you're making a lifetime commitment; is it apple or android? and there's no going back for fear of being called a traitor, a war criminal even a flip-flopper. see... tech web search tool answers your tricky questions written by mit technology review about 7 years ago a startup called skyphrase brings a better understanding of complex questions to the web. culture this is how your brain works written by neha prakash about 7 years ago quick, what's 23 times 46? no time to think, your mind has already figured it out. confused? no need for an explanation, your mind is two steps ahead of you. sometimes your brain is working so fast it's getting everything wrong. and sometimes it's wo... entertainment your facebook profile could determine mental illness written by camille bautista about 7 years ago everyone has that one crazy facebook friend. they overshare, write cryptic statuses or worse, type in all caps. those seemingly annoying posts, or lack thereof, could be more than just news feed fodder. facebook profiles could be used as insight into... entertainment report: sony to launch ps3 successor in february written by stan schroeder about 7 years ago sony will launch a ps3 successor on february 20, the wall street journal reports citing sources familiar with the matter. sony has officially announced an event on that date, saying the fans will "see the future" of playstation, but has not disclosed... business can the cloud help you make better decisions? written by dani fankhauser about 7 years ago the service rounds up data from services such as mailchimp and quickbooks for easier monitoring and can cross the data for more meaningful applications. culture the many faces of american football written by christine erickson about 7 years ago it requires a thick skin and tough attitude to play football, especially if you want to make it to the super bowl. fortunately for us, it does not require looking good for the camera. players pay attention to the game, not who's watching it. there's ... business hbo shows could come to apple tv this year written by lauren indvik about 7 years ago apple tv owners may be able to access hbo shows on their set tops by mid-year. according to bloomberg, apple is in talks with time warner to make its hbo go app, which already allows hbo subscribers to watch shows on their iphone and ipad devices, av... world suicide bomber attacks u.s. embassy in turkey written by alex fitzpatrick about 7 years ago a turkish guard was killed on friday when a suicide bomber struck the united states embassy in ankara, turkey, according to reports. the number of casualties may increase as more details are uncovered. the bomb reportedly detonated inside a security ... business watch gildan's edgy super bowl ad written by todd wasserman about 7 years ago a man wakes up with a handcuff on his wrist and lipstick smeared all over his face while a woman -- clad in panties and a t-shirt -- sleeps in the bed next to him in t-shirt maker gildan activewear's first super bowl ad. and the guy really wants his ... u.s. twitter users bid farewell to ed koch written by alex fitzpatrick about 7 years ago ed koch, former mayor of new york city, passed away early friday morning due to congestive heart failure. he was 88. koch was known for his blunt, unique style which defined new york city "chutzpah." many credit koch, who served as mayor from 1978-19... entertainment 10 steps to plan the perfect valentine's day online written by elisha hartwig about 7 years ago another valentine's day is upon us, and many of you are wondering how you can beat years past. not only have we rounded up the best apps and sites to create the ideal valentine's day for your special someone, but we'll show you how to use them creati... business why most companies won't admit they were hacked written by technewsdaily about 7 years ago the new york times, which detailed a massive attack upon its computer systems on jan. 31, is certainly not the first u.s. company to be hit by hackers apparently working for chinese interests. hundreds of western companies, organizations and governme... business why audi chose a $4 million super bowl spot over a digital campaign written by lauren indvik about 7 years ago audi has committed $4 million to air a 30-second commercial during the super bowl on sunday -- funds the auto manufacturer could have used to take over the front page of yahoo for a week, to generate 100 million impressions on hulu or to purchase any... tech verizon offers pay-as-you-go plans for 3g smartphone users written by samantha murphy kelly about 7 years ago to help customers save on costs, verizon wireless announced two prepaid plans for those on a tight budget. business bar refaeli makes out with nerdy guy in godaddy super bowl ad written by todd wasserman about 7 years ago and the award for world's luckiest actor goes to...jesse heiman. heiman, who as adfreak points out "is not known for his movie star looks," noisily sucks face with isreali supermodel bar refaeli in godaddy's latest super bowl ad. (the other dropped a... culture the internet of 2012 summed up in one eye-pleasing image written by annie colbert about 7 years ago internetoisseurs, this is your 2012 -- neatly packaged in one, retina-stimulating image. digital communications agency syzygy commissioned parisian illustrated niark1 to bring together 20 of the internet's biggest moments of 2012 in a single picture.... business hyundai's new super bowl game plan written by seth fiegerman about 7 years ago few brands are as committed to advertising during the super bowl as hyundai, but the company's track record with its ads has been mixed. hyundai bought ad space during every super bowl game since 2008. in that time, it has never cracked the top five ... entertainment how to watch super bowl xlvii live online written by sam laird about 7 years ago here's how you can watch super bowl xlvii via live stream ... like a boss. business here's a mysterious image from blackberry's super bowl ad written by todd wasserman about 7 years ago forget a teaser video, blackberry is going with a teaser image. the company, which just announced its intention to buy a super bowl ad last week, on friday released the image above. a rep didn't offer much insight about the spot, except to say, "this... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 53 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.