we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for may 2009 entertainment 5 very weird url shorteners written by stan schroeder almost 11 years ago url shorteners are all the rage lately, probably because they're relatively easy to create, but also because they offer endless possibilities for geek fun. you can like them or hate them, but here we bring you a couple that'll make you chuckle. by th... entertainment thanks to mashable's socially savvy supporters written by tamar weinberg almost 11 years ago thanks to this week’s advertisers and partners for enabling us to bring you the latest social media news and resources. we're particularly inspired by those brands that are engaging with our readers as part of our twitter brand sponsors program: mash... entertainment gambling is illegal within minnesota. yes, that means online, too. written by stan schroeder almost 11 years ago cnet reports that the state of minnesota has asked internet service providers to block access to all gambling sites. the letter sent to the isps states that a federal law "requires upon notice by a law enforcement agency that you do not allow your sy... entertainment follow for good: mashable's #followfriday charities written by pete cashmore almost 11 years ago every friday, twitter users recommend friends and favorite accounts to follow on the service in a game called #followfriday. in march, the creator of #followfriday explained how the phenomenon began in the mashable article #followfriday: the anatomy ... entertainment 4 lessons for social media marketers written by samir balwani almost 11 years ago samir balwani is an emerging technology strategist at morpheus media, a firm specializing in social marketing, sem, and seo. you can follow him on twitter @samirbalwani and get his newsletter. too many marketers these days confuse what social media i... entertainment find the nearest atm with quicken online's iphone app written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago quicken online, from intuit, is a mint competitor that offers a free way to manage your bank accounts and bills. in an attempt to make money management on-the-run easier, intuit today released an iphone companion to the online experience called quick... entertainment 5 ways to create collaborative drawings with friends written by ben parr almost 11 years ago as we've mentioned on mashable before, online collaboration tools are a great way to get work done as a group. but it's not all work and no play, there are also some fun and creative tools that let groups get together and create art...or just doodles... entertainment how twitter is dethroning the old guard written by soren gordhamer almost 11 years ago soren gordhamer is the author of wisdom 2.0: ancient secrets for the creative and constantly connected. you can follow him on twitter. with oprah showcasing twitter recently to her millions of soccer moms, and other traditional media taking notice, i... entertainment planning your weekend? center'd can help written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago it's friday and you've probably already started celebrating the end of the work week and the start of the weekend. if you're anything like us, though, figuring out what to do with all that free time can be a laborious process (ie. checking the paper,... entertainment a little birdy shares video of twitterrific 2.0 written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago it's official: the iphone is becoming the battle ground for the slickest twitter applications around. not too long along, we saw tweetstack saunter into the ring and bring your tweetdeck columns to your phone. now iphone and desktop veteran, twitterr... entertainment swine flu: the official cdc social media toolkit written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago social media really has come of age. not only are we doing our part to educate readers on how to track swine flu online and how to make sense of swine flu on twitter, but the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) and the u.s. department of... entertainment sell your twitter name for cash with tweexchange written by pete cashmore almost 11 years ago how much is your twitter username worth? $300? $400? $1000? with only a limited number of twitter names available and many of the good ones already taken, it was perhaps inevitable that a market would spring up for twitter username sales. that was th... entertainment mixcloud: the youtube for music and podcasts written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago this post is part of mashable’s spark of genius series, which highlights a unique feature of startups. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. the series is made possible by microsoft bizspark. na... entertainment top youtube videos of all time written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago visible measures, the online video tracking platform, has just published their list of the most watched viral videos of all time. the numbers are in and they're astounding, so astounding that visible measures terms these 18 hits the 100 million views... entertainment housewives desperate for you to tweet them written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago just a few weeks ago the nhl coordinated a nationwide tweetup to ring in the start of the stanley cup playoffs. now bravo and their hit cable network show, the real housewives of new york, are hoping to create the same buzz and social support with th... entertainment 7 totally unique flickr search tools written by ben parr almost 11 years ago sometimes it's simply overwhelming how many gorgeous photos there are on flickr - sifting through them to find a picture to use on your blog or to just admire can be a chore. luckily for us however, flickr has an api, meaning that some creative devel... entertainment 29 twitter apps for the iphone compared written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago remember the days when we could count iphone apps for twitter on one hand? well, those days are long gone, and if you're having trouble keeping up with all the new additions, you're not alone. which apps are the real deal, worth the price, over-hyped... entertainment do you use an rss reader? written by ben parr almost 11 years ago news was transformed on the web by the rise of a simple innovation: real simple syndication, or rss. rss feeds are a popular way to consume blogs, news, and information in general. by subscribing to rss feeds in a program like google reader, you can ... entertainment the 10 essential social media stories this week written by ben parr almost 11 years ago social media played an integral part in shaping the news this week. a potential pandemic put social media in the spotlight, facebook came under attack by phishers, and time magazine dealt with 4chan hackers. we served up some social media resources, ... entertainment seesmic desktop fully integrates facebook: it's awesome written by pete cashmore almost 11 years ago ever wanted to do everything you do on facebook...on your desktop? thanks to the new facebook api for status updates, there are apps springing up to do just that. today, twitter desktop app maker seesmic desktop launched this exact integration: it's ... entertainment tweetdeck has a fierce rival in seesmic desktop written by pete cashmore almost 11 years ago aside from the twitter.com website, the desktop app tweetdeck is the undisputed king of twitter apps, with 14.51% of users posting this way according to twitstat. that compares to 24.54% on twitter itself. the only posting method to come even close t... entertainment 7 ways to create your own social start page written by ben parr almost 11 years ago when you first rise out of bed, turn on that computer, and open your browser, what's the first thing you see? for many of us, it's a customized start page. the start page business has become a space filled with innovative startups and widgets that ma... entertainment 5 terrific twitter research tools written by ben parr almost 11 years ago twitter has a wealth of data - it's a global thought-stream on every topic imaginable. but how do we convert that raw data into insights, trends and actionable information? how can we find the signal in all that noise? fortunately, there are several ... entertainment facebook shuts ku klux klan group: tos win written by pete cashmore almost 11 years ago facebook's terms of service is rarely the hero of our story: changes to the document in february created controversy as facebook appeared to claim ownership of user content even after a user left the site. that same week, facebook polled users and fo... entertainment google founder's inspirational commencement speech (video) written by pete cashmore almost 11 years ago google co-founder larry page delivered the spring 2009 commencement address at the university of michigan yesterday, the same university at which he earned his bachelor of science degree in computer engineering. page used the opportunity to humbly te... entertainment nin app gets rejected by apple, reznor threatens to go jailbreak written by stan schroeder almost 11 years ago apple's strict iphone application approval policies caused several outbursts of rage from developers whose applications get rejected; this time it's nine inch nails' application, and trent reznor is doing the raging part. the reason for the rejection... entertainment big screen kindle coming this week written by stan schroeder almost 11 years ago according to the new york times, amazon plans to introduce a new version of its e-book reader kindle as early as this week. the new kindle will have a bigger screen and it will be aimed at reading magazines and newspapers; nyt already calls it a poss... entertainment mashable's weekly social media & marketing event guide written by tamar weinberg almost 11 years ago it's a brand new week, which means it's time for mashable’s guide to upcoming social media and web events, parties, and conferences. for more upcoming event listings, check out mashable's events section. not on this list? contact us and let’s establi... entertainment social networks to be used for asthma alerts written by stan schroeder almost 11 years ago the arizona republic reports that arizona health care officials are working on an asthma alert system that would send messages via various social networks, such as facebook, twitter or myspace, as well as sms messages, when particulate pollution in a... entertainment the algorithm that predicted swine flu written by adam ostrow almost 11 years ago they say that the internet is forever, meaning that anything you publish on the web will probably be indefinitely findable. usually, this is viewed as a cautionary tale – don’t publish anything that you don’t want people finding in the future. but fo... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 14 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.