we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for june 2010 entertainment loopt star: a digital loyalty card for your iphone written by christina warren almost 10 years ago location-based social service loopt is launching a new mobile rewards game called loopt star. loopt star will let users check in to different locales to not only compete with friends (a la foursquare and gowalla), but to also earn rewards from retail... entertainment world's biggest supercomputing superpowers [infographic] written by stan schroeder almost 10 years ago which country has the most powerful supercomputers? if you trust the annual top 500 list, recently published at the international supercomputing conference in hamburg, germany, it's the u.s., followed by china, germany, united kingdom and france. the... entertainment next iphone's parts caught on video written by stan schroeder almost 10 years ago although officially still unannounced, the next generation iphone just can't stop showing up in public. this time, metal frames that seem to be a perfect fit for the earlier iphone 4 leak have appeared in two videos posted on the blog iphone portugal... entertainment ie6 finally nearing extinction [stats] written by stan schroeder almost 10 years ago according to web analytics company statcounter, microsoft's internet explorer 6 is now truly a relic of the past with less than 5% of market share in the u.s. and europe. for years, ie6 caused headaches for developers and prompted many users to switc... entertainment lg shows off windows 7-powered tablet written by stan schroeder almost 10 years ago new windows-based tablets just keep on showing up at computex. today, lg unveiled the ux10, a 10.1-inch tablet powered by an intel atom cpu and windows 7 home premium operating system. according to the folks at engadget, who managed to spend some tim... entertainment 10 adorable apple-themed baby accessories written by amy-mae elliott almost 10 years ago congratulations, it's a mac! if you want to ensure your offspring stay on the apple side of the technology tracks, then start 'em young while they are still highly impressionable. we've scoured the web for apple-themed baby bits and bobs that will ke... entertainment quit facebook day falls flat written by christina warren almost 10 years ago yesterday was quit facebook day, and for all intents and purposes, it was a bust. according to the group's homepage, only 34,000 users vowed to "quit facebook" and remember, committing to quit and actually quitting aren't the same thing. while the de... entertainment borders adds $120 e-reader to its shelves written by christina warren almost 10 years ago last month, brick and mortar book retailer borders announced its belated entry into the e-reading space, promising both an e-bookstore and a selection of e-readers. today the company announced that it is taking pre-orders for its second e-reader, the... entertainment car sharing service zipcar files for $75 million ipo written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago zipcar, inc. has just filed the necessary sec paperwork to prepare an initial public offering (ipo) of shares of its common stock. zipcar, founded in 2000, is a company that operates in urban areas and college campuses around the u.s., uk and canada.... entertainment twitpic lets you group photos by event written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago twitpic is now letting users organize their images by event, including description information and tags for each photo in the group. similar to a flickr set, twitpic's events feature lets users organize, define and showcase their snaps quickly and ea... entertainment wordpress.com adds its own "like" and reblogging features written by ben parr almost 10 years ago wordpress.com's millions of blogs are getting social with two new features: quick reblogging and the ability to "like" posts. the newly launched features are now accessible via a like menu item in the admin bar at the top of the page, although you ha... entertainment cats can now tweet with new liveblogging device written by brenna ehrlich almost 10 years ago if you love your cat so much that you can't stand to be away from it -- even for a hot second -- you're in luck: sony computer science laboratories (csl) inc has developed a liveblogging device for mr. mistoffelees and friends. this revolutionary new... entertainment how lawyers are using social media for real results written by matt silverman almost 10 years ago the real results series is supported by gist, an online service that helps you build stronger relationships. by connecting your inbox to the web, you get business-critical information about key people and companies. see how it works here. while most ... entertainment quitting facebook gets a parody rap anthem [video] written by brenna ehrlich almost 10 years ago so yesterday was quit facebook day, and it was, apparently, a big fat bust -- 34,000 people hit the proverbial road. and, according to our own survey, only 2,645 readers packed up their profile pics and galloped off into the digital sunset -- includi... entertainment oil spill firefox plugin blacks out bp across the web written by christina warren almost 10 years ago creative agency jess3 has developed a firefox plugin that aims to black out all mentions of bp (british petroleum) across the web. as one popular tweet espouses, "want bp to up your browser like they've up the gulf? install the oil spill firefox plug... entertainment facebook "like" buttons breaking down written by christina warren almost 10 years ago is your website experiencing problems with facebook's like buttons? don't worry, it's not just you and facebook is working on a solution. the problem that seems to be impacting potentially thousands of sites is that clicking on a like button results ... entertainment 3 ways to ace your job interview with social media written by dan klamm almost 10 years ago dan klamm is the outreach & marketing coordinator at syracuse university career services, where he advises students on using social media for career success. connect with him on twitter @danklamm. succeeding at a job interview is all about coming pre... entertainment apple vs. adobe feud gets parodied on woot t-shirt written by christina warren almost 10 years ago the ongoing battle between adobe and apple over flash has spread across blogs, advertising campaigns and even "hidden" messages; now it's also on t-shirts. today's woot.com t-shirt shows the scarlett speedster himself as a fallen victim of a poisonou... entertainment artists get a new way to make money on threadless written by samuel axon almost 10 years ago online t-shirt vendor threadless has partnered with an artists' community called society6 to offer visual artists a new opportunity to make some cash. threadless will select a limited number of society6 artworks and put them on prints and t-shirts th... entertainment iphone app helps users gauge sexual compatibility [video] written by lauren indvik almost 10 years ago app developer medl mobile has just released an iphone app to help men and women evaluate prospective sexual partners. the app , which will remain free for the first two weeks following its launch, lets users draft profiles based on six categories of ... entertainment delicious creator leaves google written by ben parr almost 10 years ago joshua schachter, the creator of the social bookmarking web service delicious, has announced via twitter that he is leaving google after a year and a half on the job. schachter's tweet is short but sweet: "today is my last day at google. sad about le... entertainment marcato musician app keeps bands organized written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago this post is part of mashable’s spark of genius series, which highlights a unique feature of startups. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. the series is made possible by microsoft bizspark. na... entertainment apple shuts down lala: will its replacement come next week? written by samuel axon almost 10 years ago last night, apple shut down the lala music streaming service that it acquired five months ago, just like the company said it would. visitors to lala.com now see a message that says, "the lala service has been discontinued as of may 31st, 2010." if yo... entertainment facebook and google maps dominate smartphone app usage [study] written by christina warren almost 10 years ago nielsen has released a new mobile application report and its findings showcase not only the increase in smartphone usage, but also what applications are most popular. for its report, nielsen surveyed more than 4,200 people who had downloaded a mobile... entertainment pre-order "toy story 3" tickets on facebook written by christina warren almost 10 years ago disney has created a new facebook app that will let users buy tickets to see toy story 3 right on the site, while also inviting their friends along. the application is called disney tickets together and is a brilliant example of social media synergy.... entertainment how music videos are dominating the web [stats] written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago according to a report just relased by comscore, online video viewership has seen a bit of a shakeup due to relative newcomer vevo. launched in december 2009, the music/online video service is fed content from sony, universal and abu dhabi media compa... entertainment steve jobs at d8 on flash, ipad and the post-pc era written by barb dybwad almost 10 years ago events have just kicked off at the d8 conference with apple ceo steve jobs taking the stage for a conversation with all things digital producers walt mossberg and kara swisher. after an introduction from rupert murdoch commenting on how content creat... entertainment hulu coming to xbox live? [rumor] written by barb dybwad almost 10 years ago microsoft reportedly has a juicy reveal up its sleeve for the upcoming electronic entertainment expo mid-june: inside sources say hulu is coming to the xbox live service on the xbox 360 console. gear live reports that in addition to project natal det... entertainment web goes wild for world cup [stats] written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago for continuous world cup coverage, check out mashable's 2010 world cup hub, which will be updated throughout the games. the world cup doesn't start for another 10 days, but it's already blowing up the web, particularly in the uk. according to the tre... entertainment new app helps you "game" foursquare mayorships written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago part of foursquare's appeal is the mystery, the sense of flying blind when you're trying to earn a badge or mayorship. no one really knows how many times you must check into a location to become mayor. well, wonder no more, foursquare users. whenwill... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 25 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.