we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for july 2007 entertainment facebook app: yahoo music videos written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago yahoo just jumped on the facebook train, launching yahoo! music videos for facebook. a bit like last.fm, this gets music info from your profile and those of your friends, and displays music videos that match those interests. you can then find videos ... entertainment 10,000 users written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago we've now surpassed 10,000 users on the mashable social network, only a few weeks in. amused to see that kristen is more popular than me. ;)... entertainment pownce invites written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago update (august 17th 2007): for a more efficient way to get a pownce invite, please visit the pownce thread on mashable invites. you will need to create an account there to get your invite, but it only takes a few seconds and it loads a lot faster tha... entertainment sonicliving holds benefit for savenetradio written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago sonicliving, the live concert schedule and tracking tool, has recently launched its service in several new cities in the past month, and has also teamed up with several others in the music industry to hold a save net radio benefit. the sonicliving se... entertainment youtube video ads spotted written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago to follow up the screenshots of youtube's video ads, we now have a sighting recorded on video. the footage of the ads in action was posted - appropriately - to youtube itself. thanks to mark for the sighting. if only we could replicate this - perhaps... entertainment afeeda launches a feed aggregating service written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago afeeda is a new feed aggregator service that lets you create your own feeds for personalized updates that are delivered directly to you. with afeeda, you can make a personal, group or event feed, all of which aggregate the feeds you'd like to pull in... entertainment mashable in strange places written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago once you've gotten over the excitement of your new iphone, send us a photo of your phone in an interesting location, with mashable on the screen. the most exotic location gets a $100 apple or itunes voucher in our mashphone contest. julie gomoll subm... entertainment symbaloo is a search start page written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago symbaloo is a front page of sorts, offering much in the way of search and centralized access to other links you frequent on the internet. with this service, you get tiny modules that have been bunched together by default for many of your every day pu... entertainment biznik to relaunch with more web 2.0 features written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago biznik is an online social network for independent business professionals looking to meet others. the seattle-based company has been around for some years now, but is set to launch an updated version with more web 2.0 features in the next couple of d... entertainment universal music may drop itunes contract written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago vivendi's universal music group, record label for heavy hitters such as 50 cent and eminem, is looking to sign a short term contract with apple's itunes instead of renewing its long-term contract with the music store. in an effort to gain more flexib... entertainment clipperz launches online password manager and virtual safe written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago clipperz is a new, web-based password manager that offers secure storage for other information as well, including notes, codes, pins, software keys and more. the additional features included with clipperz help differentiate it from password manager t... entertainment imessenger and reverbnation facebook apps written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago imessenger is a facebook application that works in a similar manner as meebo, offering an ajax instant messenger service thata doesn't require a login, and operates directly from your profile page. any facebook friends that add the imessenger applica... entertainment mashable ads written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago i forgot to mention that we started running federated media ads a few weeks back (they've been making headlines recently!). there's now a veritable buffet of formats to choose from, and no need to wait for us to plow through the 100 news submissions ... entertainment put pownce on facebook written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago we just go notified (via pownce) that you can now put pownce on facebook, thanks to the efforts of jake jarvis. the pownce application for facebook displays updates from you and your friends in little speech bubbles (or rectangles, technically). thes... entertainment 5 new online advertising tactics we fear written by stan schroeder over 12 years ago yahoo has a new advertising tool launching called smartads. by gathering as much personal data as possible (age, location, gender, recent searches), yahoo can target ads to customers with much higher response rates, the company says. as much as we li... entertainment hubpages launches yahoo answers rival written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago hubpages, the online publishing community, has added a q&a feature to its site today, entitled hubpages requests. modeled after yahoo answers, hubpages requests lets users create an entire page around the answer they provide, offering their two cents... entertainment 500,000 iphones written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago reportedly, that's the number of phones apple offloaded to eager customers this weekend, with no shortages. only 5% bought the 4gb model, with the majority choosing the 8gb version. at&t, alas, didn't perform as flawlessly as apple: activiation issue... entertainment 11 things you can bet on (legally) written by james mowery over 12 years ago prediction markets allow you to speculate on many things today - from the success of the iphone to the next us president. knowing these things in advance can lead to riches - or at least extreme smugness. to get you started with this under-rated form... entertainment adjug gets millions for new ad marketplace written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago with the monster acquisitions of aquantive and doubleclick, who wouldn't want to be in the ad game? the latest contender is uk-based adjug, which is announcing a "multi-million dollar investment" today from balderton capital (previously benchmark cap... entertainment canadian facebook users vote to abolish abortion written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago they also want to "restore the traditional definition of marriage" and bring in a "spiritual revival", apparently. at least, those are the results of a cbc poll for canada day called the great canadian wish list. more than 16,000 people responded to ... entertainment seeqpod is an active music search & discovery tool written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago seeqpod is a new music search engine that is dubbed as a "playable search." it's raised a reported several million dollars independently of venter capital funding, though the actual amount has not been disclosed. with seeqpod, you can perform a searc... entertainment zoho launches its facebook application written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago zoho has just launched its facebook application, granting you access to your zoho office suite from within facebook. you can access it here. this release gives you an updated list on your documents, spreadsheets and presentations, with quick links to... entertainment jaiku on your iphone written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago jaiku has created a mobile version of its micro-blogging service for the iphone, and has launched it just now. the iphone version of jaiku looks and functions in a very similar manner to the web version, and lets you post and receive updates for your... entertainment hp launches wordpress plugin for blog printing options written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago hp has released a few new tools for website publishers and bloggers for printing options that site visitors and readers can utilize, called the tabblo print toolkit. with the tabblo print toolkit, developers can add printing functionality into existi... entertainment flogd launches a shopping widget written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago flogd has created a commerce widget for you to sell your items directly on your blog, website or social networking profile such as myspace, hi5 and piczo. similar to other widgets you see on myspace, including snocap, the widget is designed for a way... entertainment mister wong launches social bookmarking tool in u.s. written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago mister wong is a social bookmarking site that originated in germany, and has since become a popular and widespread tool in europe. it's recent launch in america is currently in private beta testing, in an effort to prepare for a full-fledged launchin... entertainment brad greenspan acquires partnership stake in chinese video-sharing sites written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago brad greenspan, proclaimed myspace founder, has announced that his company, broadwebasia, has acquired partnership stakes in mofile and hubotv, two quickly growing video sites in china. with a combined 48 million unique visitors per month, it's not d... entertainment viagra 2.0 written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago i'm amused to see that feed management service feedburner - now owned by google - is running a campaign for viagra on mashable (screenshot below). no doubt other publishers haven't logged in to check their ads in the past few days, so there are bound... entertainment feedbeat is another me.tv clone written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago feedbeat is a video aggregating tool that lets you become your own vj, and broadcast your channel. the core of the feedbeat service is the tools used to compile and edit your actual playlist. once you've found the videos you'd like to add (from sites... entertainment blocked by myspace? written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago as facebook applications spread like wildfire and myspace looks to follow a similar path, we're interested to know how many sites are still suffering from a myspace block. if you own a service, or use one that is blocked, mail me at the email address... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 20 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.