we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for september 2006 entertainment tagged rolls out new features written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago tagged.com hasn't received any coverage on mashable yet, largely because it caters to the pre-myspace demographic of 13-20 year olds. however, today they announced some page customization features that are worth a mention. first off, they appear to h... entertainment politicians come to facebook for election 2006 written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago facebook have just launched a feature called "election 2006", which allows you to search for office candidates for the senate, house, and governorship. the site now has 1,600 profile pages for candidates running for house and senate seats, as well as... entertainment myspace replaces the mall written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago myspace is becoming a major force in online shopping, according to the latest data out of hitwise. myspace was responsible for 2.53 percent of all u.s. upstream visits to the shopping and classifieds category for the week ending august 26th 2006, up ... entertainment mycircles, another adult social network, heads for launch written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago it might not get much coverage, but adults-only social networking is big business - market leader adult friend finder, for instance, reports 20 million members. new entrant mycircles.com isn't giving much away before its launch tomorrow, but it has a... entertainment cruxy launches marketplace and myspace player written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago new york-based cruxy, which launched officially on wednesday, is a marketplace for independent content creators to sell their work. filmmakers, videobloggers, podcasters, musicians, and designers can sell content through the cruxy system, as well as ... entertainment myspace music to add paid downloads written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago in a direct challenge to apple's itunes, myspace has announced its intention to sell songs from the 3 million unsigned bands on myspace.com. even more surprising: the songs will be sold as unprotected mp3s, free from drm. myspace co-founder chris dew... entertainment faceparty on written by sid yadav over 13 years ago a profile of faceparty, written by sid yadav. faceparty is one of the oldest social networking sites still in operation, with its launch dating back to august 2000. currently serving 6 million users with approximately 5,000 new registrations daily, f... entertainment fox sports' news tracker for myspace written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago yet more myspace codes - in preparation for the new football season, fox sports has created a sports headline widget for myspace users. the flash powered widget is being promoted on their myspace page (more myspace marketing), which currently lists 1... entertainment multiply to announce social bookmarking tool written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago florida-based social network multiply, which reports nearly 3 million users and $6 million in funding, will officially announce its social bookmarking tool tomorrow. the platform already supports blogs, video, photos and music, but the bookmarking fe... entertainment chacha launches - myspace meets search written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago chacha, a social search engine that pays users to find answers to questions, is set to launch in alpha today. as well as traditional algorithmic search, chacha offers the ability to have an on-site im conversation with a "guide", who will then go out... entertainment web 2.0 consulting with acs and mashable written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago consulting is back! since i'm absolutely overloaded with requests these days, the folks at acs have stepped up to offer consulting through mashable with my oversight. the expert team is offering guidance on web 2.0, new media, social software, social... entertainment facebook's facelift - an invasion of privacy? written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago facebook, america's number two social network behind myspace, launched a redesign and two new features early this morning, allowing a user's activities on the site to be tracked. first off, they've added news feed, a box on your homepage that display... entertainment tv company buys into myvideo.de, the german youtube written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago prosiebensat1 media, germany's largest commercial tv company, has bought a 30 per cent stake in myvideo, the so-called "german youtube". romania-based myvideo broadband also runs smaller video sites in poland, france and spain, but the german service... entertainment youtube ipo? written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago the biggest criticism of youtube is usually that they won't be able monetize their massive audience (100 million youtube videos per day). however, they're stepping up their game, revealing this weekend that they've recruited the former yahoo treasure... entertainment trakzor myspace tracker written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago trakzor, one of the world's most popular myspace trackers, just released a 2.0 version, with a complete redesign and a bunch of new features (it appears to have gone live today). a myspace tracker, for those who don't follow this market, is a tool th... entertainment soapbox's social network for reviews written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago there isn't much to fledgling review site soapbox right now, but today they launched an interesting feature that deserves a mention. while the previous version of the service allowed you to write reviews on the site itself, the new version lets you w... entertainment motionbox gets funded written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago another video sharing site gets funded: new york startup motionbox will announce today that they've raised $4.2m in series a funding from canaan partners, sas investors and itochu corporation. the cash will be used to build out motionbox’s technology... entertainment facebook backlash written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago as i suspected, facebook users aren't too happy about the new features rolled out yesterday (see facebook’s facelift - an invasion of privacy?). however, the backlash has been more than a mere grumbling - a petition against the new features has been ... entertainment rojo acquired by sixapart written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago rojo, the feed reader that launched back in 2004 and saw mixed results, is set to announce its acquisition by blogging company sixapart. rojo will become part of the vox blogging platform, allowing users to browse new content and reblog it. the value... entertainment my big fish games - amway meets myspace for games written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago big fish games, a seattle-based casual gaming company, will release a service in beta today called my big fish games, connecting a myspace-style social network with a new affiliate scheme. users have their own profile pages called "game spaces" where... entertainment crowdstorm and dovetail.tv launch today written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago two startups that i've mentioned here previously, crowdstorm and dovetail, launch today. crowdstorm is a shopping platform that measures the buzz around products, complete with a social network - the public beta began this morning. it takes on kabood... entertainment wink 2.0 launches, becomes a social network written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago wink 2.0, the new version of wink's people-powered search engine, is set to go live very shortly. for those who aren't familiar with it, wink combines a digg-like voting system with search, allowing users to tag and rate search results. in addition t... entertainment bubblesnaps - funny picture generator for myspace written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago london-based bubblesnaps, which started in march 2006, just relaunched with a focus on social networks. the idea is very similar to zingfu - you upload a photo and then add a speech bubble or thought cloud before sending it to friends or posting it t... entertainment faketown 2.0 - the next habbo hotel? written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago california-based faketown is a 6-year old "social game" that quietly relaunched in mid-august, although they've yet to announce the change publicly. the site centers around a virtual chat room, and allows users to create, buy, sell, trade and share v... entertainment treemo launches - youtube plus photobucket on your phone written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago treemo, which launches today, is a social network and media sharing site with a focus on cellphones. formerly known as hypermob, the seattle-based startup also has a social mission - they're encouraging users to recycle their old digital cameras and ... entertainment vsocial gets funding for more video-sharing written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago another day, another video sharing site gets funded: arizona-based vsocial has taken $1.5 million in series a funding led by consor capital, according to a regulatory filing. no further details were released. you'll remember that competitor motionbox... entertainment xanga fined $1 million for violating children's privacy written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago xanga, the popular social networking site, has been ordered to pay a $1 million civil penalty for violating the children's online privacy protection act, in a settlement with the federal trade commission. the penalty is the largest ever assessed by t... entertainment chosenvip to launch exclusive social networking site written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago houston, texas-based chosenvip, which launches next month, wants to put a new spin on exclusive social networking. but unlike asmallworld, it isn't an entirely closed community. in fact, chosenvip will allow anyone to sign up and create a profile, af... entertainment facebook gets egg on its face, changes news feed feature written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago facebook's mark zuckerberg just published an open letter to users apologizing for the privacy problems around the new news feed and mini feed features (see facebook's facelift). zuckerberg says they were trying to provide members with a stream of inf... entertainment webwag takes on netvibes and pageflakes written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago webwag, another new ajax startpage, has announced its us version. the french company, founded by successful businessman franck poisson, joins netvibes and pageflakes - making for a trio of european start pages. webwag has opened headquarters in palo ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.