we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for april 2013 business 'the walking dead' season finale a boon for advertisers written by christina warren almost 7 years ago the third season finale of amc's hit show, the walking dead airs sunday night, and although it's going head-to-head against the third series premiere of hbo's game of thrones, viewers are expected to tune into the show en masse. the walking dead isn'... entertainment 15 geeky easter eggs you'll want to poach written by stephanie buck almost 7 years ago if the internet was a hen, these are the types of eggs she would lay. these "geakster eggs," if you will, are the result of some pretty festive nerds at the peak of their easter spirit. who knew a doctor who tardis would look so fine as an oval? and ... entertainment 5 fascinating facts we learned from reddit this week written by eric larson almost 7 years ago turns out, your brain's a scumbag and love really is blind. read on. entertainment 10 creative ways to use your favorite running app written by matt petronzio almost 7 years ago if running is a staple of your regular workout routine, odds are you have a favorite smartphone app to run alongside you. whether it's runkeeper, nike+ or mapmyrun, you use mobile technology to measure your distance, pace and speed, and to push yours... culture surprise! even teens love jennifer lawrence written by anita li almost 7 years ago in the eyes of media and fans, jennifer lawrence can do no wrong. the hunger games star fell while accepting her best actress oscar at the academy awards ceremony last month, but managed to recover gracefully. she then effortlessly charmed reporters ... entertainment 'true blood' teaser reveals a bloody season 6 written by anita li almost 7 years ago hbo is gearing up to debut season six of its vampire series, true blood, and the network released a titillating teaser to fire up fans. posted to youtube on saturday, the 30-second promo features plenty of blood and gore, with stars anna paquin (as s... entertainment this week's biggest moments in 27 photos written by emil lendof almost 7 years ago this week was filled with photo-worthy events. with spring underway, butterflies emerged from their chrysalises in the "sensational butterflies" exhibit at the natural history museum in london. the world's number one chess player was also seen compet... tech did da vinci invent google glass? written by lance ulanoff almost 7 years ago leonardo da vinci, the 15th-century renaissance man, is credited with envisioning or outright inventing hundreds of modern-day devices; facsimiles of everything from a machine gun to parachutes and even today's helicopter can be found in his detailed... tech sony launches headphones for cats on april fools' day written by pete pachal almost 7 years ago can pets be as gadget-obsessed as their human masters? sony imagines a world where dogs, cats and hamsters can get in on the latest tech trends with its animalia line of products -- including a doggie tv and cat headphones -- that are designed for a ... entertainment 8 thinkgeek products we wish were real written by stephanie buck almost 7 years ago nerdy novelty site thinkgeek certainly gets in the holiday spirit. the ecommerce retailer prepares april fools' day pranks every year, yet despite its tradition, customers keep falling prey over and over again. see also: 7 pranks you should probably ... entertainment 'dash' wirelessly monitors your driving written by camille bautista almost 7 years ago update: drive with dash's kickstarter campaign has been taken down due to an intellectual property dispute. another automotive device company has trademarked the name "dash" with a smart car app for real-time diagnostics. smartphones are extensions o... tech google nose harnesses your sense of smell for search written by anita li almost 7 years ago first, google pranked its users by claiming to shut down youtube; then, the search giant introduced old-school "treasure maps." but its pièce de résistance for this year's april fools' day has got to be google nose. currently in beta, the new feature... tech google revolutionizes its email service by introducing gmail blue written by anita li almost 7 years ago google has added another prank to its april fools' day playbook by introducing a colorful change to gmail. called gmail blue, the search giant's latest effort to revolutionize its email service is as simple as it sounds: to make gmail the color blue.... entertainment twitter now costs $5 per month -- if you want to use vowels written by stan schroeder almost 7 years ago twttr -- doesn't sound too bad, right? well, that's exactly what you'll get if you want to continue using twitter for free -- only consonants will be available for writing messages. for $5 per month, you'll also be able to use vowels -- a, e, i, o an... tech at&t says it has an 'exclusive' on the 64gb htc one in the u.s. written by pocket-lint almost 7 years ago if you're in the u.s. and looking for a bit of extra storage on your htc one, at&t might be your destination. the nation's second-largest wireless provider has announced it will get an "exclusive" 64gb version of htc's next-flagship. in a video on it... tech the pirate bay moves servers to the u.s., becomes freedom bay written by stan schroeder almost 7 years ago after trying its luck to north korea, the world's largest bittorrent tracker, the pirate bay, has announced it has moved its servers to the u.s. "we have worked closely with the awesome american government to establish a strong military graded server... tech hands-on with the week's top apps written by emily price almost 7 years ago it was an interesting week for apps. this week flipboard updated to version 2.0, adding a number of new features in the process, and evernote updated its app for android, adding support for the evernote-branded moleskine notebook. a new app by smule ... business job hunting? 160+ openings at sony, 'time out new york' and more written by elisha hartwig almost 7 years ago whether you're unemployed, underemployed or just looking for something a bit more interesting, the mashable job board is full of listings to take your career to the next level. since 2005, mashable has been committed to bringing the top digital, soci... entertainment google's treasure map and other news you need to know written by stan schroeder almost 7 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of "first to know," a series in which we keep you in the know on what's happening in the digital world. today, we're looking at several particularly interesting stories. it's april fools day, and companies around the... business tesla turns first profit written by seth fiegerman almost 7 years ago it only took a decade, but tesla is finally profitable. tesla announced late sunday that it achieved profitability in the first quarter of 2013 for the first time in its history after posting better than expected sales of the model s sedan. the compa... entertainment 7 kickstarter gaming sensations: where are they now? written by lauren hockenson almost 7 years ago if you’ve crowdfunded anything before, chances are you’ve faced the kickstarter catch-22: when a campaign earns enough hype (and consequently, a ton of backers), there’s inevitably a lengthy wait ahead of you. see also: 10 best strategy games for and... tech students to free subscriptions to popular vpn client hotspot shield written by lorenzo franceschi-bicchierai almost 7 years ago students in the uk and the united states will be able to get anchorfree's popular virtual private network (vpn) client hotspot shield for free, as long as they have a ".edu" or ".ac.uk" email address. the company launched the promotion on monday, and... tech ipad mini denied trademark in u.s. written by samantha murphy kelly almost 7 years ago apple loves to slap a patent on everything, but it looks like it won't be receiving trademark for the phrase "ipad mini". tech toshiba unveils game console that measures anger written by pete pachal almost 7 years ago the game console wars just got way more interesting with the debut of the toshiba shibasphere, which stands out from competitors with some novel features, including the ability to measure -- and compensate for -- user frustration. sound ridiculous? t... u.s. south korea and united states are planning cyberwar scenarios written by alex fitzpatrick almost 7 years ago military allies south korea and the united states are working together to develop cyberwarfare scenarios in response to escalating threats from north korea, south korean media is reporting. south korea will also be increasing the number of cyberwarfa... entertainment the 10 best pranksters on youtube written by the daily dot almost 7 years ago every day is april fool's day on youtube. these 10 con artists will make you cringe, feel awkward and crack up as each scene unfolds. u.s. kid president stars in white house april fools prank written by annie colbert almost 7 years ago the white house has employed the motivational talents of kid president for its april fools day prank. the official white house youtube channel released a video monday morning titled "a special message from the president," but instead of barack obama,... entertainment hulu adds 'itchy & scratchy,' 'milf island' and more classic shows written by brian anthony hernandez almost 7 years ago hulu added a slew of "classic tv shows" to its ever-expanding streaming collection, and fans of the simpsons, 30 rock, community, arrested development, daria and how i met your mother are sure to get a kick out of the latest offering. "starting today... world where does april fools' day originate? written by discovery news almost 7 years ago despite having no official recognition, april 1 has long been celebrated as a day to celebrate, well, foolishness to be exact. more specifically, april fools’ day is about making other people look stupid with practical jokes. as dearly as we hold the... entertainment 'new york times' kicks off poetry month with haiku tumblr written by matt petronzio almost 7 years ago april fools' day and the first day of national poetry month happen to share the same date, and the team at the new york times came up with a side project that seems to celebrate both -- or does it? the media giant started a new tumblr on monday calle... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 51 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.