we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for february 2008 entertainment no, digg isn't digging its own grave written by stan schroeder about 12 years ago the folks over at royal pingdom pinged me with a story that lays down an interesting proposition. according to them, as digg grows, more and more sites it links to will suffer downtime because of the digg effect (huge traffic spike from digg's many u... entertainment huge: microsoft wants to acquire yahoo for $44.6 billion written by stan schroeder about 12 years ago microsoft has made an official proposal to acquire yahoo in a deal worth $44.6 billion in cash and stock, at a price of $31 per share, which represents a 62 percent premium for shareholders. here's a quote from the official press release: "microsoft ... entertainment 15 invitations remain for myspace developer platform launch party written by adam hirsch about 12 years ago myspace is throwing a launch party in the san francisco area on tuesday, february 5th to kick off their developer platform, and has provided mashable with 25 exclusive invitations to offer the community. there are only 15 spots remaining, so please h... entertainment bubblicious: facebook valued at 100x sales written by adam ostrow about 12 years ago according to kara swisher, mark zuckerberg told a group of facebook employees yesterday that the company is on track to take in between $300-350 million revenue this year, up handily from an estimated $150 million in 2007. while that’s impressive gro... entertainment mytrybe: find new friends you might actually want to talk to written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago the online social networking industry is commandeered by a few massive forces: myspace, facebook, bebo, etc. they comprise the heads of the pack. they make the news; they shape discussion about market trends and innovations. but the sector of the mar... entertainment readers react to microsoft's proposed acquisition of yahoo written by adam ostrow about 12 years ago in probably the biggest web deal since aol-time warner, microsoft has bid $44.3 billion to acquire yahoo. personally i’ve been tuned into cnbc all morning, where most of the talking heads seem to think the deal makes a lot of sense. mashable readers ... entertainment microsoft-yahoo: why the hell not? written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago there’s been no public handshake had between s. ballmer and j. yang. the offer made by the former for the latter’s dust-covered golden goose has not yet been accepted. (officially, anyway.) but it darn well should be. i’ll come out and say it. in the... entertainment subjoost widget translates joost tv written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago if you like watching television on joost but wish there were subtitles for shows that either need the sound turned off or would like to watch a program that's in a different language, then you're going to like subjoost. this is a downloadable widget ... entertainment super bowl ads on hulu. why not the game? written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago hulu is gaining traction, and the big boys behind the online video network have actually done their part to ensure that its content is available across multiple video platforms. online distribution at its finest, right? hulu is making sure the consum... entertainment google releases the social graph api written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins about 12 years ago leave it to google, the likely impetus behind the story of the day, to release something to give us a reprieve from the microsoft-yahoo merger discussions. today they released a new api for graphing social connections in the wilds of the web. it's ca... entertainment microsoft-yahoo: the timeline of a deal written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago while it's the biggest web deal in years, microsoft-yahoo was hardly unexpected. we've heard rumors of a deal since late 2006, and after yahoo's latest earnings report earlier this week, many were calling for action. in fact, according to all things ... entertainment the daily poll: should yahoo accept microsoft’s offer? written by adam ostrow about 12 years ago "wild brother"the title page of william lyman underwood's "wild brother", published in 1921getty research institute / internet archivei should hesitate to tell - with the expectation that it would be accepted as the truth - the true story that i am n... entertainment google social graph api spotted in the wild: plaxo public profiles written by adam ostrow about 12 years ago while most of the day has been devoted to coverage of the proposed microsoft-yahoo deal, there is some pretty significant news out of google as well: the launch of the social graph api. as mark described earlier, “it’s used by social app developers t... entertainment yahoo offers an extended “no comment” response to microsoft offer written by adam ostrow about 12 years ago in response to microsoft's proposed acquisition, yahoo has published a brief faq this evening that doesn’t offer much in the way of details, other than letting us know it could be a while until they come to a decision: q1. how is yahoo! responding to... entertainment microsoft-yahoo: the complete coverage written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago microsoft's proposed acquisition of yahoo has set off a firestorm of comments and opinions. earlier in the day, adam recapped how our readers are reacting to the news, with the majority of you voting that yahoo should take the deal, but not so certai... entertainment what will microsoft-yahoo look like, in pictures written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago we know you've been bombarded with news of microsoft-yahoo, with the unsolicited bid amounting to $46 billion. but we figured we'd take a lighter approach to the whole situation, and see what the larger community thinks about a possible acquisition, ... entertainment the billboard: big it up for partnerup and killerstartups written by adam hirsch about 12 years ago mashable was brought to you this week by partnerup and killerstartups, our awesome sponsors. if you'd like to help support our team and our progress, there are various opportunities available. please contact us for the following, or visit our adverti... entertainment gimado music search: next to get sued by warner? written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago gimado is the latest to launch a music search engine, very similar in function to seeqpod. crawling the web for mp3s, your search query will return a list of results for songs that can be played and downloaded. i played around on the site for a while... entertainment twit.io: and the twitter economy lives on written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago twit.io is a social database, comprised entirely of tweets. the result is a classifieds-type system that lets you browse and search twitter content in a more delineated manner. think of it as twitter meets craigslist. if you follow twit.io, then you'... entertainment writing room is just another network, so far written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago writing room is a recently launched community for writers. duh. now, there are a lot of these sites out there, from niche writing techniques to niche interest groups. as you'd expect, the writing room has various social networking tools, search and d... entertainment superbowl: follow the game from the road written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins about 12 years ago with all the microsoft-yahoo mess going on today, it may have escaped your memory that there are some other big things going on at the moment - like a presidential election and, you know, the superbowl. we just caught wind of this tool to make your e... entertainment mybloglog api launches closed beta written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago mybloglog, the popular blogger community that allows you to see who has visited your site, has just launched a closed beta for their api. you currently will have to apply to get on a waiting list for access to the api, but it looks like you will be a... entertainment third undersea internet cable snapped in the middle east written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago it's been a bad week for undersea telecommunications cables in the middle east. according to the bbc, a cable snapped today that just added to the headache of the two that broke on wednesday under the mediterranean. flag telecom, the owners of the la... entertainment discount code for israelwebtour, hosted by microsoft written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago israel is becoming a hotbed for web-based startups, and the connections between israel and silicon valley are getting stronger as these startups receive more funding and become more prominent in the tech community, looking for global growth. to help ... entertainment yahoo's friendly facebook application written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago yahoo has a new facebook app. it's called friend sense, and it's a product of the research arm of yahoo, called the human social dynamics group. the point of this application is to get to know your friends, and yourself, better. through a series of y... entertainment 20+ sites for the best super bowl ever written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago it's that time of the year again where the entire united states goes into a football-induced coma-like state. yes, every true fan will spend those 4 or so hours in front of the tv, but there's also a wealth of online resources that can help you enjoy... entertainment how is google to fare amid much grander opposition? written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago it’s the morning after the storm. the waters seemed to have calmed somewhat. the journalists and analysts have all tired of hacking their keyboards with worn, calloused digits after a mad scramble for revealing information and insight into the minds ... entertainment newscorp looking to bid for yahoo!? it can't be so. written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago over the last 12 hours or so, there’s been a considerable increase in chatter floating around the blogosphere about news corp’s purported desire to make an offer for yahoo! after bearing witness to microsoft’s swift and silent launch to claim the web... entertainment walmart loses head of digital media to apple written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago wal-mart has lost the head of its digital media department. kevin swint, once the champion of the retail giant’s music and video services, has left one large empire to join another, according to a report by rafat ali of paidcontent.org. swint is star... entertainment despite the noise over msft's bid for yhoo, is flickr getting ready for a big upgrade? written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago buried beneath the mass of speculation about microsoft’s bid for yahoo! made public friday, dan farber of zdnet’s between the lines blog is claiming today that the expected acquiree-to-be may soon release a long-planned update to its flickr photo sha... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 23 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.