we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for may 2013 tech robot learns to gently touch objects written by discovery news almost 7 years ago humans are able stick their arms into cluttered areas like a refrigerator or reach across a table set for dinner without knocking anything over. robots aren’t so good at that. in fact, until now, researchers generally design robots to not touch anyth... entertainment star samsung athlete tweets props for galaxy s4 -- from an iphone written by sam laird almost 7 years ago david ferrer is a spanish tennis star. he's playing in the upcoming mutua madrid open tournament. that event happens to be sponsored by samsung, so ferrer sent a tweet on tuesday in which he gave a big ol' shout-out about how much he loves his new ga... entertainment no technology allowed at 'digital detox' summer camp for grown-ups written by vignesh ramachandran almost 7 years ago if your smartphone is attached to your hip, your blood flows like a twitter feed and you're fairly certain your eyes permanently see through an instagram filter, then maybe it's time to disconnect for a bit? a new summer camp aims to help adults take... culture 12 famous poets and their day jobs written by matt petronzio almost 7 years ago artists often need to supplement their incomes with something a little more substantial, and that especially goes for poets. for instance, did you know that robert frost ran a dairy farm to earn some extra cash? or that maya angelou sang calypso musi... business jason collins story gives 'sports illustrated' record traffic day written by sam laird almost 7 years ago jason collins' historic first-person article in which he announced he was gay helped sports illustrated's website set an all-time traffic record. entertainment soccer trick makes for incredible alley-oop written by sam laird almost 7 years ago what happens when you cross-breed soccer and basketball? this amazing alley-oop. entertainment chad johnson live-tweets himself showing homeless man a great time written by sam laird almost 7 years ago ex-nfl star and eternal twitter legend chad johnson did a pretty awesome thing over the weekend. tech faceswap lets you swap faces with friends in iphone photos written by emily price almost 7 years ago looking for a quick way to creep out your friends? meet faceswap, an iphone app that lets you instantly swap faces -- yes, faces -- with your friends in photos. using face detecting technology the app is able to find all of the faces in a photo, crop... tech ibm manipulates atoms to create the 'world's smallest movie' written by pete pachal almost 7 years ago actors have a saying: there are no small roles. ibm is seriously challenging that expression, however, now that it's created a short film where the actors are actually individual atoms. a boy and his atom would be just like any number of unremarkable... tech 6 hassle-free remote desktop apps for ipad written by tabtimes almost 7 years ago remote desktop applications are a popular category in the app store, but many of the solutions often involve confusing download instructions or a clunky interface. if you're looking for a fairly pain-free setup, consider the following ipad apps, whic... entertainment kickstarter campaign asks celebs to pay regular guys to see their films written by anita li almost 7 years ago update: luke barnett explained why he and partner tanner thomason launched the kickstarter campaign. "we both really like the idea of kickstarter, but let's be honest, kickstarter is the internet's equivalent to panhandling. and panhandling is totall... u.s. collegehumor offers $2,600 to buy banana from man who lost life savings written by anita li almost 7 years ago henry gribbohm, the new hampshire man who lost $2,600 in life savings at a carnival game only to score a stuffed banana as consolation, may see his luck turn around. comedy site collegehumor launched a facebook campaign tuesday to buy back gribbohm's... business apple's $17 billion bond sale is one of the biggest ever written by stan schroeder almost 7 years ago in order to raise cash for planned dividend payments and stock buybacks, apple has sold $17 billion in bonds tuesday in one of the largest corporate bond sales in history. the amount of money apple has raised through a bond sale is not unheard of -- ... entertainment how to avoid mother's day email scams written by technewsdaily almost 7 years ago in theory, you know your mom better than anyone, so don't let a random email dictate what to buy her for mother's day. in addition to showcasing your sensitivity, choosing your own gift will let you avoid an email scam that could end with a stolen cr... tech samsung ditches hard buttons on nx2000 mirrorless camera written by pete pachal almost 7 years ago samsung is all-in on mirrorless cameras. after launching the nx300 earlier this year, now the company unveils the nx2000, a more affordable model that's aimed at people who want to upgrade from point-and-shoots but want something more compact and aff... tech 6 new google glass demos worth a watch written by bob al-greene almost 7 years ago as google glass makes its way into the hands of consumers, the first videos recorded on the stylish headgear are hitting the web. users are finding some interesting, creative and downright beautiful applications for the wearable tech. but long-haired... business christie's bolsters online auctions in bid for younger customers written by lauren indvik almost 7 years ago christie's, a 250-year-old auction house with showrooms spanning from new york to shanghai, is expanding it's online catalog to reach new -- namely, younger -- customers more akin to making purchases from their laptop computers than in a formal aucti... entertainment this is what happens when you block someone on facebook written by amy-mae elliott almost 7 years ago while facebook offers a wonderful way to keep in touch with friends and family, as with any social network, there is potential for people you'd rather not be in touch with to contact you. if this happens to you on facebook, you can easily "block" som... business snickers buys search ads against your hunger-induced misspellings written by todd wasserman almost 7 years ago ever get so hungry that you can't even google correctly? apparently, it's a thing and snickers is on it. to capitalize on this phenomenon, the brand recently ran an seo campaign that targeted users who misspelled words in googel, sorry google searche... business 10 hot social media jobs in new york, california and more written by elisha hartwig almost 7 years ago whether you're unemployed, underemployed or just looking for something a bit more interesting, the mashable job board is full of listings to take your career to the next level. since 2005, mashable has been committed to bringing the top digital, soci... business t-mobile merges with metropcs, will trade as 'tmus' written by todd wasserman almost 7 years ago t-mobile on wednesday announced it had completed its merger with metropcs. the company will begin trading on the new york stock exchange wednesday using the ticker symbol "tmus." "the combination of t-mobile and metropcs creates an even stronger disr... business apple's $17b bond sale and other news you need to know written by stan schroeder almost 7 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of "first to know," a series in which we keep you in the know on what's happening in the digital world. today, we're looking at three particularly interesting stories. apple made one of the largest bond sales ever on... tech is a cheaper htc one variant on its way? written by stan schroeder almost 7 years ago an image of htc m4, a smartphone similar in appearance to htc one but reportedly much cheaper, has been unearthed by phonearena. the m4 seems to be just a codename; the device could have some form of htc one branding, according to the report. whateve... culture 11 baby animals so cute you'll squeeze your eyeballs out written by christine erickson almost 7 years ago spring is here! the flowers are in bloom, the sun is shining and new life is all around. it's just like the movie bambi, except you're probably not in love with a skunk! the best part of this season (and any other time of the year, really) is all the... tech tim cook to return to allthingsd's kitchen written by pete pachal almost 7 years ago tim cook will make his second appearance as ceo of apple at the annual d: all things digital conference in california this month, the publication revealed. cook will headline the three-day conference on the opening night. d11 is due to kick off on tu... tech the pirate bay moves to the caribbean written by stan schroeder almost 7 years ago the pirate bay has a new top level domain (tld) again: thepiratebay.sx, registered in the caribbean island of sint maarten. while this latest move will instill various puns related to the pirates of the caribbean films, the search for a safe tld is l... business facebook earnings preview: what to expect written by seth fiegerman almost 7 years ago it has been nearly a year since facebook became a public company. in that time, the stock has crashed and burned and staged a significant comeback -- and that was just in the first six months. after falling to as low as $17.55 a share in early septem... tech lg optimus g pro coming to u.s. on at&t written by pete pachal almost 7 years ago the smartphone market has spoken, and it's clear people want big-screen, powerful smartphones. that's just what the lg optimus g pro is, and now it's coming to the u.s. under at&t's banner. at&t locked an exclusive deal on the new phone, and the opti... entertainment microsoft's illumiroom turns your room into the game written by chelsea stark almost 7 years ago microsoft is closer to bringing gamers a more immersive experience through illumiroom, according to documents released online this week. microsoft's illumiroom uses a xbox kinect and a projector to extend the gaming experience beyond the borders of t... entertainment linkedin lets you illustrate your talents with pics, video written by emily price almost 7 years ago linkedin added the ability to showcase users' talents in a whole new way wednesday: pictures and video. now linkedin users can add visual content to their profile pages, giving more depth to the written content already displayed on the site. for inst... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 52 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.