we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for august 2014 culture kids challenge the monsters under their bed in cute photo series written by madeline raynor over 5 years ago these kids are fighting back against their nightmares. denver broncos quarterback peyton manning throws football during drills at the morning session of the team's nfl football training camp in englewood, colo., on friday, july 25, 2014 tech nfl to track players with shoulder pad sensors written by samantha murphy kelly over 5 years ago the national football league will be adding sensors to the shoulder pads of each player during the 2014 season to track real-time data. video: youtube, tedx talks culture reddit bans one of most popular users for vote manipulation written by max knoblauch over 5 years ago reddit user unidan, known off of the internet as biologist ben eisenkop, has been shadowbanned from the site due to vote manipulation. reddit administrators discovered that eisenkop maintained five side accounts, which he used to both upvote his own ... image: sydney superyacht show world the ridiculous interiors of multi-million dollar superyachts written by jenni ryall over 5 years ago always wanted to own a yacht with a helipad? the dream may be no closer, but a guided tour lets you feel the glamour for a fleeting moment. culture one troll has a few ideas to revitalize foursquare written by colin gorenstein over 5 years ago your swarm app complaints have been heard. emily ratajkowski at treats! magazine spring issue party on may 10, 2012 in beverly hills. image: getty/treats! entertainment time to stop calling emily ratajkowski the 'blurred lines' girl written by josh dickey over 5 years ago this really should be the last time you're introduced to emily ratajkowski in a story as the model who, in the white-hot video for last summer's hit "blurred lines," danced nearly naked around robin thicke like he was made of bacon. that's because ra... image: @vp world biden, democrats do a throwback thursday for healthcare written by katie sola over 5 years ago his nostalgic post targeted 26-year-olds about to lose their health coverage verdine white, ralph johnson and philip bailey of earth, wind and fire perform during the festival international de jazz de montreal on june 30 in canada. image: roberta parkin/getty images entertainment earth, wind & fire's philip bailey: no one cares about albums anymore written by brian anthony hernandez over 5 years ago philip bailey from earth, wind & fire told mashable his thoughts on the state of the music industry, the impact of "september" and beyoncé's surprise album. a shot from the pilot episode of abc reality/fantasy show &quot;the quest.&quot; image: abc entertainment 'the quest' episode 1 recap: you'll feel very silly - silly is good right? written by josh dickey over 5 years ago if you like the fantasy genre -- or reality tv -- you'll feel a little silly watching "the quest." extra silly if you like both. a masked libyan gunman stands on a street in the eastern city of benghazi, early on july 29, 2014. image: abdullah doma/afp/getty images world 'i can hear the bombs falling': fighting engulfs libya written by louise roug over 5 years ago guns rule the streets. foreigners are leaving. 'freedom fighters,' who once battled against oppression, now battle each other. libya is burning. image: flickr, 401(k) 2012 tech man adds hundreds of dollars to gift cards without paying a cent written by katie nelson over 5 years ago muneeb akhter claims his hacking experiment was not for personal gain. image: kalyan chakravarthy business the odd work-break ratio that's great for productivity written by the daily muse over 5 years ago everyone has that person in the office. you know, the one who always seems to get way more done than everybody else, but who never seems stressed or frantically trying to finish an assignment. how does he or she get it done? and can you steal those s... culture 19 confessions from the happily and unhappily single written by laura vitto over 5 years ago "why aren't you seeing anyone?" a car is removed from a parking structure, which was flooded by tuesday's water main break, on the ucla campus on thursday, july 31, 2014, in los angeles. image: ap photo/jae c. hong/associated press world repairing burst los angeles main could take days written by the associated press over 5 years ago there's still a lot of work to do here. palestinians carry their belongings after salvaging them from their destroyed houses in the heavily bombed town of beit hanoun, gaza strip, close to the israeli border, friday, aug. 1, 2014. image: ap photo/lefteris pitarakis/associated press world 35 palestinians dead, israeli soldier missing as cease-fire unravels written by amanda wills over 5 years ago dozens in gaza killed and an israeli soldier was reportedly kidnapped after a 72-hour cease-fire crumbled in just a few hours on friday. a man looks at solar panels at the taleghan renewable energy site in taleghan, 99 miles northwest of tehran, iran on june 22, 2014. image: ebrahim noroozi/associated press tech sunlight-concentrating device could halve solar power cost written by mit technology review over 5 years ago a new material, combined with a cheap tracking system, could unleash the promise of concentrated solar power. a material with optical properties that change to help it capture more incoming sunlight could cut the cost of solar power in half, accordin... culture 19 rad ideas for your '90s party written by colin gorenstein over 5 years ago show your friends you know "whasssup" by hosting a slammin' '90s party. image: nbc, the office culture 45 most annoying office habits written by brian koerber over 5 years ago who microwaves fish at the office? image: pablo martinez monsivais/associated press world the speaker of the house is suing the president. wait, is that a thing? written by colin daileda over 5 years ago it's the first time in american history that a chamber of congress has approved a lawsuit against the president. the twitter bird logo is on an updated phone post on the floor of the new york stock exchange, wednesday nov. 6, 2013. image: richard drew/associated press entertainment twitter tests 'translated' hashtags written by todd wasserman over 5 years ago twitter is testing a feature that makes it easier for new users to make sense of hashtags. a wounded ukrainian soldier (c) walks away from a ukrainian helicopter (unseen) with his comrades on july 31, 2014 in a field near zaporizhya, after a military operation in ukraine's eastern regions. image: alexey kravtsov/afp/getty images world at least 10 ukraine soldiers killed near mh17 crash site written by christopher miller over 5 years ago pro-russian insurgents killed at least 10 ukrainian paratroopers in an ambush overnight near the malaysia airlines flight 17 crash site in eastern ukraine, military officials said on friday. image: flickr, sebastiaan ter burg business 40+ events in analytics, social media and more written by sheffie elencweig over 5 years ago the mashable events board is a great place to find leading conferences in your industry, whether it's advertising, technology, media or public relations. this week we're highlighting five events that we think can help move your career forward. if you... the first two android wear smartwatches, the samsung gear live (left) and lg g watch, debuted at google i/o 2014. image: mashable, niki walker tech why i'm already giving up on android wear written by pete pachal over 5 years ago google's android wear platform is an automatic fail right out of the gate because its "all day" battery life just doesn't cut it in a wearable-tech world. malala yousafzai, pictured above in 2013, will sit down with facebook's sheryl sandberg for a live-streamed interview on aug. 8. image: jessica rinaldi, file/associated press world facebook's sheryl sandberg to interview malala yousafzai written by alex magdaleno over 5 years ago one of the world's most powerful women will talk with the teenage activist who stood up to the taliban and fights for education rights. entertainment author emma straub on 'the vacationers' and the literary internet written by nora grenfell over 5 years ago family vacations: they never seem to quite go according to plan. fortunately for us, this fact of life provided the plot and setting for emma straub's best-selling novel the vacationers, which has been selected as an official mashablereads selection.... apple has officially announced the acquisition of beats. image: apple business it's official: apple welcomes beats to the family written by jason abbruzzese over 5 years ago apple's acquisition of beats music took another step forward on friday. austrian student max schrems sits at his computer, in vienna, austria on oct. 10, 2011. image: ronald zak/associated press world student files privacy class action suit against facebook written by lorenzo franceschi-bicchierai over 5 years ago "the austrian thorn on facebook's side" is back with a new class action suit against the social network, alleging a series of privacy violations -- and wants 1 billion users to jon his cause. entertainment jimmy fallon throws big balls at julia roberts' face written by neha prakash over 5 years ago things are getting a little r-rated over at 'the tonight show'. culture heroic bear saves a struggling crow from drowning at the zoo written by brian koerber over 5 years ago this will hit you right in the feels. image: raimund linke entertainment the decisions that shaped the mashable community written by jeff petriello over 5 years ago life's most memorable paths often start with the least likely beginnings. over the last few weeks, and in collaboration with the broadway musical if/then, we've gathered the mashable community's if/then stories. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 60 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.