we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for 2013 entertainment 8 tech resolutions for the new year written by kate freeman about 7 years ago at the beginning of a new year, we prepare -- or hope -- to become our better selves. resolutions often focus on our diets and health, or balancing our families and careers, but you might want to consider adding some tech-focused resolutions to your ... culture cruise ship dancer busts a move, gut written by eric larson about 7 years ago what you think you saw out of the corner of your eye was real. watch a man confuse and amuse cruise ship vacationers through the art of dance. entertainment the 10 best new podcasts of the year written by the daily dot about 7 years ago some of the top podcasts from 2012 came from big names like chelsea peretti, kevin smith and alec baldwin. here are the shows that emerged strong, got even better and will have a big year in 2013. entertainment 9 apps to fast-track your new year's resolutions written by kate freeman about 7 years ago whether your goal in 2013 is to lose five pounds, manage your finances, or spend more time with friends and family, there are a growing number of apps that fall into the self-help category and can assist you in accomplishing these resolutions. at mas... tech time machine app transports you back to 2012 written by fran berkman about 7 years ago it's 2013. by now there is a mobile app for that, this and the other thing. it's safe to say, however, that there is a brief list of feats that mobile apps will never accomplish. there will never be an app to raise the dead. no app will ever have a r... entertainment 7 apps for creepers written by stephanie buck about 7 years ago do you have a smartphone? then chances are you've been a creeper. now don't get all defensive, just yet. how many times have you snapped a photo of some hipster's pink beard on the subway? how often do you send racy pictures to your husband during hi... tech wordpress blogs at risk due to plug-in flaw written by technewsdaily about 7 years ago a security flaw in the default configuration of a popular plug-in for wordpress has put blogs hosted on the platform at risk of data theft. the flaw, discovered by researcher jason donenfeld, is in w3 total cache (w3tc), a plug-in to the blog-hosting... tech press pause and learn how your dvr actually works written by stephanie buck about 7 years ago back in the late '90s, the brand "tivo" was eponymous with the term "dvr" -- after all, it was the first successful digital video recorder aimed at consumers. and although tivo use is down from its 2006 sales peak, many of us have fond memories of th... culture watch times square dance 'gangnam style' on new year's eve written by annie colbert about 7 years ago psy closed out his billion view 2012 with a rowdy performance of "gangnam style" in times square in front of a million new year's eve revelers. entertainment netflix may be down again written by alex hazlett about 7 years ago netflix once again appears to be down during a high-traffic holiday. downrightnow shows sporadic outages for the video service starting new year's eve. while there's been no official confirmation from netflix, downrightnow cites user reports on its o... entertainment mom gives son a christmas iphone -- with strings attached written by sam laird about 7 years ago this mom gave her teenage son an iphone for christmas. she also gave him an 18-point contract lining out what is and isn't acceptable use of the new toy. culture 12 animals with hangovers worse than yours written by annie colbert about 7 years ago the calendar says january 1st, which means there's an 82.4 percent chance you have a nasty hangover. did you try the pepto-bismol, ginger ale, chia seed, pickle juice cocktail (don't try that at home, kids) and still feel like your head got crushed b... business 6 ways to recharge your business in 2013 written by nellie akalp about 7 years ago for the entrepreneur, this time of year typically means a mad dash to wrap-up remaining projects, close deals, and squeeze in time for family and friends. as the days get shorter, it starts to feel like time accelerates faster than ever – leaving you less and less time to accomplish your year-end goals. world apple store in paris robbed on new year's eve written by andrea smith about 7 years ago there was a huge heist at an apple store in paris on new year's eve. as police were monitoring the area around the champs-elysees for the new year celebrations, armed thieves broke in and made off with an estimated million euros worth of goods, or ju... entertainment remembering 2012 in tweets written by matt silverman about 7 years ago life gets busy and information moves fast. sometimes it's hard to remember all the big news that came down over the course of a year. twitter is a record, but sifting through it is nearly impossible. see also: 50 most memorable tweets of 2012 one int... u.s. barack obama's ama is reddit's top post of 2012 written by andrea smith about 7 years ago do you remember that barack obama ama on reddit this past august? the one that started with "hi, i’m barack obama, president of the united states. ask me anything." that was reddit's top post of 2012 with 5,598,171 page views. reddit compiled a list ... business score your next job with linkedin premium written by lauren drell about 7 years ago it may not be the sexiest gift to get your friend for the holidays, but few things are as useful to someone looking for a job as a linkedin premium account. business 10 very successful small businesses that don't use social media written by todd wasserman about 7 years ago some industries tend to have more use for social media than others. tech world's first eye-tracking pc accessory to launch in 2013 written by pete pachal about 7 years ago eye-tracking technology has been slowly emerging as a viable technology the last couple of years, and it comes in real handy when you want to know which parts of a facebook profile people actually look at. one of the leaders in the space, tobii, is s... tech leaked photos show sony xperia z and zl written by stan schroeder about 7 years ago press shots of sony's upcoming smartphones, the xperia z "yuga" and xperia zl "odin", which showed up on sony's website, give hope that the japanese tech giant is finally ready to launch a flagship phone worthy of its name. the photos did not come wi... tech apple may already be testing the new iphone and ios 7 written by stan schroeder about 7 years ago apple undoubtedly has plans for a new version of ios and a successor to iphone 5, but now we have the first signs that the cupertino giant is already testing them in the real world. according to developer logs the next web has seen, apple is testing ... business avis buys zipcar for $500 million written by todd wasserman about 7 years ago eager to get a piece of the nearly $400 million car-sharing market in the u.s., avis announced wednesday that it was buying zipcar for $12.25 per share or around $500 million. the agreement is a 49% premium over zipcar's closing price on dec. 31, and... business apple touts 'do not disturb' feature in new ad right after it malfunctions written by seth fiegerman about 7 years ago apple's ads have already gotten off to a bad start this year. the company put out a new ad on new year's day touting the do not disturb feature that comes with the latest version of ios, which lets users mute incoming calls and alerts while the devic... world you can tweet at 75% of the world's leaders written by alex fitzpatrick about 7 years ago have you ever had a hankering to tweet at uk prime minister david cameron? he tweets as @number10gov. what about south africa's president jacob zuma? you can find him at @sapresident. and russia's president vladimir putin? that's @kremlinrussia_e, fo... business hearst claims 800,000 digital subscribers, the 'highest in the industry' written by todd wasserman about 7 years ago hearst corp., publisher of cosmopolitan, elle and road & track among other titles, now has 800,000 paying digital subscribers, according to president david carey. carey (pictured) included the stat in a letter to employees at the company. the figure ... entertainment 7 apps to help you cook and eat like a pro written by gloria dawson about 7 years ago author and food activist michael pollan has lamented that the food network and cooking shows have "transformed cooking from something you do into something you watch." but remember; those celebrity chefs can teach us a thing or two about how to cook.... business the cookie monster tries to keep new year's resolutions in google play ad written by todd wasserman about 7 years ago the 56-second ad above neatly encapsulates the fate of many people's new year's resolutions this week while slipping in a plug for google play. as with previous google ads, including the 2010 super bowl spot "parisian love," the tale -- from ad agenc... culture cats demonstrate the top 10 new year's resolutions written by annie colbert about 7 years ago today marks the official kick off to a skinnier, happier, talented new you. or at least until february. find the inspiration to pursue your new year's resolution with help from a few goal-oriented cats demonstrating the 10 most common resolutions. or... tech kia to integrate google maps and places into its cars written by stan schroeder about 7 years ago kia motors america has signed a deal with google to integrate google's content and search-based solutions into its uvo eservices telematics system. the first vehicle to get the google treatment will be kia's 2014 sorento, with the first new features ... tech windows 8 now on 1.78% of all computers written by pete pachal about 7 years ago usage of windows 8 is ticking up since its release in late october. microsoft's latest windows operating system is now installed on 1.78% of all computers in use, according to net applications, which measures os market share. the latest numbers show ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 618 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.