we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for october 2005 entertainment tim o'reilly on what is web 2.0? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago tim o'reilly has just posted what will no doubt become a seminal article on the definition of web 2.0. if you're still struggling to understand all this web 2.0 stuff (and who isn't?) this should clear things right up. here are the key aspects of web... entertainment 37signals: the top 10 things that aren't web 2.0 written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago jason over at the 37signals blog has posted on the top 10 things that aren't web 2.0, among them ajax and rss: "there’s a lot of smart people asking ‘what is web 2.0?’. i’ll tell you what it isn’t. 1. ajax, rss, etc 2. feature lists 3. vc funding 4. ... entertainment writeboard vs writely written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago writeboard is here! this new web-app from 37signals is a collaborative document editor and word processor. i'm a big fan of writely, so i thought i'd check out writeboard and see how it stacks up. some of my observations: *the interface on writely is... entertainment wanted: ruby on rails developers! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago i've got hundreds of ideas for innovative web applications right now, all of them with strong business models. but with the web moving on so fast, i need to get things rolling pretty darned quick! here's the meaty bit: i'm looking for ruby on rails d... entertainment one terabyte of email storage! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago wow. a few days ago, the blogosphere was abuzz with news that a service called 30gigs was offering 30gb of online email storage. now om malik has discovered something even more remarkable: mailnation is offering one terabyte of email storage for free... entertainment bubble, bubble, toil and trouble.... written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago the web 2.0 bubble is surely fit to burst. alex barnett has spotted a ridiculous number of acquisitions this week, while richard mcmanus and techcrunch report that weblogs inc has been bought by aol for $20-35 million! don't get me wrong, i love all ... entertainment even more web 2.0 companies written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago that's right: my feedreader is yet again full to bursting with a plethora of remarkable web 2.0 services. luckily, techcrunch has done a good job of herding up the best of the best at the web 2.0 conference - part one and part two. many of these serv... entertainment web 2.0 and the rise of the thin client written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago web 2.0, ajax, web apps, you know the buzzwords. but what's it all about? personally, i think all these technologies are part of a bigger movement towards thin clients and mass online storage, with all our apps running on the network. i've been calli... entertainment how to run a web 2.0 company: less is more written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago jason from the excellent web 2.0 startup 37signals (creators of backpack, basecamp, ta-da list and now writeboard), gave an informal talk at the web 2.0 conference on the subject of less. his advice to web 2.0 companies: less money. traditionally you... entertainment it's about the user, stupid! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago there's a great post over at o'reilly radar about the enormous popularity of writely. the key point: web 2.0 is about user experience. companies which understand the user experience will succeed in the long-term. look at successful companies like fli... entertainment web2.0 or not? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago speaks for itself...... entertainment "getting bought" is not a business model! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago dare obasanjo has put up a pretty darned interesting post on his thinking about the web 2.0 conference. here's the bit that stood out for me: just like in the dotbomb days of 1999/2000, most "web 2.0" companies don't have a business model besides get... entertainment gada.be - social metasearch service written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago chris pirillo and his lockergnome buddies have launched a new metasearch engine which is getting some buzz in the blogosphere. gade.be has some pretty unique features, including the ability to conduct and filter searches by editing the domain name. t... entertainment the most gorgeous ajax interface ever! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago so we've seen plenty of instant searches come out recently, but inquisitor instant search has one thing that really stands out - just feast your eyes on that interface! who knew that ajax could be so beautiful? and yes, i had to squish that image to ... entertainment bubble 2.0 and the land of opportunity written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago richard macmanus has posted about web 2.0 business models and the sudden onslaught on vc funding we've seen in the last few weeks and months. he writes: i'm sensing a backlash about the rising vc interest in web 2.0. mike rundle takes aim at flock in... entertainment are there better alternatives to ajax? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago alexei white doesn't think so. in this in-depth post, he takes a look at xul, xaml, svg, flash, applets and ajax and concludes that ajax is the clear winner. i tend to agree - looking beyond all the current hype (and the fact that "ajax" isn't really... entertainment 43 domains: what next for 43 things? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago it looks like the robot co-op is on a roll. their popular goal-sharing app 43things has spawned an off-shoot in 43places and another in 43people. hmm...43things, 43places, 43people - there's a pattern there! it looks like the team is picking a social... entertainment blogoposium2: lessons learned from web 1.0 written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago ken yarmosh over at technosight is holding a second blogoposium, this time on lessons learned from web 1.0. with all the talk of a bubble on the way, it'll be interesting to see what this endeavor turns up... in my second blogoposium, i propose that ... entertainment flex vs ajax (hint: ajax is better!) written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago i recently wrote about the alternatives to ajax, so it was interesting to read this post by alex bosworth on flash and its role in web services. he makes some interesting points on the advantages of flash in web apps: i'm not talking about the interf... entertainment web 2.0 is made of white people written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago this post by anil dash on the web 2.0 conference has attracted a lot of attention. why? largely because it puts into words something a lot of us have been thinking: web 2.0 is made of white people. and not just white people, but white men. as anil po... entertainment discussion: the google of social networks? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago i want to know what the google of social networks would look like. doug sherrets thinks that social networks are at the same place as search engines in 1998 - hundreds of contenders, but nothing compelling or unique. i tend to agree. myspace is fract... entertainment more ajax goodness! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago what would happen if you could run osx from within your browser? how about this?... entertainment blogging the splogs written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago the blogosphere is really losing its patience with splogs. there was a time when they were only mildly irritating, but spam blogs (largely those on blogger/blogspot) have now screwed up the signal vs noise ratio and made everyone's life more difficul... entertainment innovation 2.0: flip so you don't flop written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago jeff clavier has put up an insightful post over at zdnet in which he claims that getting bought isn't such a bad idea. perhaps the most important point, however, is that web 2.0 companies don't get ahead by having superior technology. instead, they h... entertainment the web 1.0 companies that got whooped! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago richard mcmanus quotes don dodge on the web 1.0 companies that got well and truly whooped by the giants of web 2.0: * altavista -> google * napster -> itunes * visicalc -> lotus 123 -> excel * word perfect -> word * netscape -> internet explorer * ap... entertainment web app roundup numero 2! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago another week, another plethora of wonderous web 2.0 offerings served up automagically in your fantabulous feedreader. what more could you ask for? savvy readers will notice that wink, flock and a few more wonderful web 2.0 offerings haven't appeared ... entertainment safari doesn't like my blog written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago i learnt yesterday that my blog header isn't showing up right in safari. that makes me sad. but you can help rectify this sorry state of affairs! if you have any idea what's causing this problem (my lousy css, my obvious lack of design skills...) the... entertainment codase: the source code search engine written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago huihong luo, the founder of codase, just emailed me to tell me a bit more about his inspired source code search engine. obviously i'm way too pompous to get my hands dirty with any actual coding, so i'll leave huihong to explain its merits: "as you w... entertainment the web 2.0 business model: flip it! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago just a quick note to say that anil dash has another take on the "built to flip" model i mentioned earlier, along with some excellent graphs. check it out!... entertainment all new mashup matrix! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago inspired by programmableweb's web 2.0 mashup matrix, google blogoscoped has gone one better and created a totally interactive technology mashup matrix. very, very cool. from the google blogoscoped blog: "this blog’s new technology mashup matrix helps... ← previous 1 2 3 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.