we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for april 2011 entertainment youtube time travels to 1911 for april fools' written by ben parr almost 9 years ago youtube has kicked off the april fools' festivities with a celebration of its "100th birthday" -- a journey into what youtube might have looked like in 1911, if youtube or the internet existed back then. the video platform is going all out; not only ... entertainment major media companies unite to serve cease-and-desist against ipad news aggregator zite written by lauren indvik almost 9 years ago the founder and ceo of ipad news aggregator zite, ali davar, has received a cease-and-desist letter signed by several major u.s. publishers, including the associated press, dow jones, gannett and getty images, for copyright and trademark violations. ... entertainment iphone app finds the apps your friends like written by jennifer van grove almost 9 years ago the spark of genius series highlights a unique feature of startups and is made possible by microsoft bizspark. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. name: frenzapp quick pitch: frenzapp is a fre... entertainment godaddy ceo tries to explain elephant-killing "safari" written by jolie o'dell almost 9 years ago editor's note: an earlier version of this story, entitled "the real story behind bob parson's elephant-killing "safari" ," has been re-edited to reflect a more neutral stance. godaddy ceo bob parsons sparked outrage yesterday by releasing a video of ... entertainment our choice: the funniest april fools' jokes written by stan schroeder almost 9 years ago in gmail, you no longer have to use obsolete technology such as a mouse and a keyboard to write, compose, or reply to emails: you can do all of those simply by moving your body. of course, even the smile of google's paul mcdonald as he utters the ann... entertainment how to: make an ipad case using common household materials written by erica domesek almost 9 years ago erica domesek is the founder, creator and author of p.s.- i made this..., a distinguished diy design and style blog. she's based in new york city where she encourages everyone to embrace her creative motto: "i see it. i like it. i make it." everyone ... entertainment thanks to mashable’s socially savvy supporters written by mashable team almost 9 years ago thanks to this week’s advertisers and partners for enabling us to bring you the latest social media news and resources. mashable's sponsors are as social media savvy as our readers! advertise with us and get noticed. mashable is seeking site sponsors... entertainment this morning's top 5, 100% verified stories in tech & social media written by lauren indvik almost 9 years ago welcome to this morning’s edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. we’re keeping our eyes on five particular stories of interest today. tech companies take to april fooling google... entertainment htc thunderbolt challenging iphone at verizon written by ben parr almost 9 years ago the verizon iphone hasn't even been available for two months, but it's already being challenged for the title of verizon's most popular phone by the htc thunderbolt. the android smartphone is a beast of a device; not only is it one of the world's fir... entertainment online file storage & backup service gets innovative with new, paper option [video] written by brenna ehrlich almost 9 years ago this morning, online file storage service livedrive announced that it's adding a new tier of protection to its offerings: storing data on paper. obviously, this is an april fools' joke, but the video that the company created to accompany the faux new... entertainment 18 ways to earn money from crowdworking written by alizasherman almost 9 years ago with the rapid rise of crowdsourcing over the last five years since the term was coined by jeff howe in wired, there has been a lot of coverage on how individuals, organizations and businesses can implement the concept into their work. last year ther... entertainment rebecca black is kind of awesome -- no april fooling written by brenna ehrlich almost 9 years ago today, comedy site funny or die is completely dedicated to this, the day of the week, friday -- courtesy of rebecca black. upon first visiting the site, you might think that funny or die is taking a crack at black, who rose to dubious internet stardo... entertainment april fools' day by the numbers [infographic] written by charlie white almost 9 years ago social media users, you're not alone in your april fools' day enthusiasm. that april fools' prank you're about to pull puts you in good company, with a surprising percentage of your fellow social media mavens creating stunts today that would get them... entertainment introducing the mashable socialpay digital subscription plan written by adam ostrow almost 9 years ago the media has evolved a lot in the 5+ years since mashable started. more people now get their news from the internet than from newspapers. news is now often broken through citizen journalists on social media sites. and bloggers, once paid in energy d... entertainment 6 tips for creating valuable branded content written by tamsin hemingray almost 9 years ago tamsin hemingray is director of content for digital marketing agency icrossing, where she oversees content strategies for brands including sta travel and sainsbury’s finance. tamsin is also a co-author of the ebook how to plan a content strategy, rel... entertainment bronx zoo's cobra hijacks ryan seacrest's twitter account written by lauren indvik almost 9 years ago the bronx zoo's cobra, which famously went missing last friday only to turn up on twitter to the delight of the entire twittersphere, has hijacked the twitter account of american idol host ryan seacrest. this is despite reports from bronx zoo officia... entertainment rockmelt reboots its social web browser with new beta version written by christina warren almost 9 years ago social web browser rockmelt started rolling out rockmelt beta 2 on friday. the new version is the "most significant update" yet to the chromium-based web browser and it touts better chat, more robust twitter integration and a new "view later" feature... entertainment new york public library invites 500 to overnight scavenger hunt written by lauren indvik almost 9 years ago the new york public library, which became the first public library to launch a foursquare badge this week, is going one step further in mobile innovation by inviting 500 people to compete in a smartphone-based challenge for a library game night. "fin... entertainment no kidding: the onion releases ipad app on april fools' day written by charlie white almost 9 years ago of all the days to release a new ipad app, the onion chose today, april fools' day. there's something profoundly appropriate about that. and it really is an actual app, not an april fools' day gag. it's free and it's packed with the onion's hilarious... entertainment 5 youtube marketing tips for better engagement written by jason weaver almost 9 years ago jason weaver is the ceo of shoutlet, an enterprise social management software company he founded. he has been involved in social media strategy development since its inception for brands that include disney, sc johnson, and ebay. in addition to its i... entertainment facebook profile migration tool takes a hiatus [update] written by christina warren almost 9 years ago update: the tool is back up, proceed with caution! facebook's profile to page migration tool has been disabled. the tool allowed users to convert facebook profiles into facebook pages, turning friends into fans, and was aimed primarily at brands and ... entertainment home depot tries crowdsourced philanthropy on facebook written by zachary sniderman almost 9 years ago home depot just launched a campaign on facebook allowing users to decide where the company should spend its grant dollars and volunteer hours. the program, aprons in action, was launched by the home depot foundation, the company's philanthropic arm. ... entertainment tweetforger is fertile ground for april fools written by charlie white almost 9 years ago here's a convincing april fools' gag if there ever was one. enter someone's twitter handle into the form at tweetforger.com, create a crazy tweet, send your victim a link to the resulting page and watch the hilarity ensue. even though the graphic the... entertainment top 5 comics from the mashable caption contest written by matt silverman almost 9 years ago thank you for submitting so many great entries to our mashable comics caption contest! as it turns out, most of you are hilarious (assuming you enjoy egregious puns and butt humor). we've selected our absolute favorites for publication below. congrat... entertainment apple, google & the war to replace your wallet written by ben parr almost 9 years ago amazon, google, apple, microsoft and others have their eyes on the nfc mobile payment market, setting the stage for a potentially brutal battle over the future of payments. nfc, or near-field communication, allows for wireless transfer of data over s... entertainment how to: recruit all-star employees on a startup budget written by alex berg almost 9 years ago alex berg is the chief product officer of bonanza and bags bonanza. bonanza is a marketplace focused on creating a browse-friendly experience that helps you discover unique items. prior to bonanza, alex served in leadership positions with wetpaint, e... entertainment our favorite youtube videos this week: the rhythmic silliness edition written by brenna ehrlich almost 9 years ago weekends should be all about levity. and dancing. which is why we asked audio-visual artists (and frequent mashable party headliners) eclectic method to curate this week's youtube roundup. the theme? rhythmic silliness. it's been a big couple of week... entertainment mobile payments will disrupt, just not immediately [report] written by christina warren almost 9 years ago google, amazon and apple might be fighting to replace consumers wallets with smartphones. but a new report from forrester indicates true mass adoption of mobile payments is still a few years away. in the report "mobile payments enter a disruptive pha... entertainment color updates app, addresses speed & ui problems written by ben parr almost 9 years ago color, the geolocation social network and photo-sharing app that made major headlines last week, has updated its iphone app with major speed and ui changes. the application, available for iphone and android, is a combination of social networking and ... entertainment 35 years & $317 billion later, apple intends to dominate a post-pc world written by ben parr almost 9 years ago on april 1, 1976, steve jobs, steve wozniak and ronald wayne established a small company to sell personal computer kits hand-built by wozniak. that company, as you probably know, was apple computer. thirty-five years later, apple is now the most valu... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 27 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.