we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for february 2014 russian police detain two gay rights activists with a sign reading homophobia is russia's disgrace in moscow on sept. 25, 2013. image: ivan sekretarev/associated press world gay rights activists see insult and opportunity in sochi written by sam laird about 6 years ago the sochi olympics could have one of two very different legacies for lgbt activists. each would bring powerful consequences. an apple customer checks out the ios 7 software on the iphone 5s. image: lintao zhang/getty images tech report: apple to dip into fitness tracking with ios 8 written by samantha murphy kelly about 6 years ago your future iphone will tell you your heart rate, blood pressure and even glucose levels, a new report suggests. reporting from the surface of an alien planet. image: chris graythen/getty images entertainment what the super bowl looks like to a foreigner written by chris taylor about 6 years ago let's start with the cheerleaders, because i'm constantly surprised by how little people mention them. for a foreign-born u.s. resident such as myself, cheerleaders are possibly the most american thing about football (which, in deference to my reader... video: youtube, dannon business a sneak peek at sunday's super bowl ads written by neha prakash about 6 years ago thanks to the internet, enthusiastic football fans and sports novices alike can enjoy the big game's commercials long before kickoff. while some brands are keeping their ads under wraps until sunday, a whole slew of companies have uploaded ads, or at... world high and dry: 10 devastating photos of the california drought written by ann-marie alcantara about 6 years ago california is in its third straight year of drought conditions, with 2014 as the driest year on record -- setting the stage for disastrous consequences for people, animals and the environment. reservoirs all over the state are experiencing low water ... a football with the super bowl xlviii logo sits on a mound of snow, as workers shovel off the seating area at metlife stadium, on jan. 22, 2014, in east rutherford, n.j. image: julio cortez/associated press entertainment super bowl xlviii could be the coldest ever written by matt petronzio about 6 years ago super bowl xlviii, which pits the denver broncos against the seattle seahawks on feb. 2, will take place at the metlife stadium in east rutherford, n.j. it will be the first nfl title game held outdoors in a city where it snows. as a result, this yea... navorro bowman of the san francisco 49ers is carted off the field after sustaining a leg injury during the nfc championship game on sunday jan. 9, 2014. image: marcio jose sanchez/associated press entertainment nfl players had more than 1,300 injuries this season written by max knoblauch about 6 years ago in recent years, the nfl has made many rule changes in the hopes of increasing player safety and decreasing the number of sustained injuries. according to most analysts, however, these changes don't seem to be having an all too positive result. new e... image: flickr, tais melillo entertainment 9 amazing artists to follow on twitter written by anna washenko about 6 years ago today's artists aren't limited to creating with paint or clay. many of the most inventive people in the art world are thinking on a much larger scale and using unexpected materials in their work. and the best thing is that you can find many of them s... image: flickr, daiki_jp tech dogecoin is one step closer to being real money written by the daily dot about 6 years ago people who love dogecoin really love dogecoin. it's to the point where aficionados of the meme-themed cryptocurrency will hand out dogecoins to pretty much anyone on the off chance that person will respond, ‟such money. so currency. wow." that genero... actor vin diesel answers questions at a south korean press conference promoting &quot;fast &amp; furious 6&quot; on may 13, 2013 image: lee jin-man/associated press entertainment 9 facebook pages you won't believe have millions of likes written by max knoblauch about 6 years ago we all "like" facebook pages for two main reasons: to show support and to get news. it makes sense, then, that some pages have more likes than others. what doesn't make sense is the arbitrary way in which the facebook community decides which pages to... business the 8 types of super bowl ads you'll see this weekend written by todd wasserman about 6 years ago super bowl ads are like a miniature version of the film industry. there's (relatively) huge money at stake and the creators are torn between creating something new and noteworthy or falling back on established formulas. ads in the super bowl don't us... culture 25 quirky bouquets better than flowers written by andrea romano about 6 years ago the old "flowers and candy" tradition is so cliché. if you are planning on sticking to this so-called "tried and true" standby gift for valentine's day, prepare to be judged. it doesn't have to be that way, though. couples all over are putting deep, ... image: mashable composite. istock, susaro tech five apps to get the most out of super bowl sunday written by karissa bell about 6 years ago this sunday is the biggest day of the year for football fans. but the super bowl is a marathon event and between tracking each play, watching commercials and the halftime show, even the most devoted fans may need some help following the game. luckily... satellite radio talk-show host howard stern and wife beth stern arrive at 'howard stern's birthday bash' at the hammerstein ballroom in new york on jan. 31, 2014. image: evan agostini/invision/associated press entertainment only howard stern could turn 60 like this written by fran berkman about 6 years ago in nearly 40 years in the radio business and 60 years on earth, howard stern has accumulated quite an array of celebrity friends. the prominent "shock jock" hosted a 60th birthday party at new york city's hammerstein ballroom friday night. the event ... entertainment a brief history of super bowl halftime shows written by brian koerber about 6 years ago the super bowl is an american pastime, whether you enjoy football or not. for some, the halftime show is just as (if not more) important as the wings, commercials, and the game itself. the performance is a high honor for artists, on par with winning ... an artist's interpretation of an asteroid belt in the closest known planetary system, epsilon eridani. nasa claims to know about 90% of the asteroids 1 kilometer across and larger. the goal is to someday track all of them. image: nasa/jpl world must reads: killer asteroids, ex-tsa agent confessions and more written by megan hess about 6 years ago during the week, we consume words in snackable, tweetable bites. but on the weekends, we have the time to take a dive into the murkier, lengthier depths of the internet and expand our attention spans beyond 140 characters. we can brew a cup of coffee... world 10 photos of indonesia's deadly volcanic eruption written by fran berkman about 6 years ago at least 14 people died when an indonesian volcano erupted saturday, following months of increased activity. as of saturday afternoon, the reported death toll was 14, but that number could increase, according to the associated press, citing officials... harriet tubman was featured in saturday's google doodle in honor of the first day of black history month. tech harriet tubman google doodle kicks off black history month written by melissa goldin about 6 years ago saturday's u.s. google doodle features civil war-era abolitionist and humanitarian harriet tubman, marking the start of black history month. tubman is most well-known for leading more than 300 slaves to freedom on the underground railroad over a peri... image: mashable christina ascani tech 4 android tablet apps to make life simpler written by tabtimes about 6 years ago contacts+ contact management is often a mess, especially with the multiple accounts that people often have to juggle. contacts+ is a good solution for cleaning things up and linking those in your contact list to social and communication networks. the... a screenshot appearing to show the syrian electronic army's logo on the homepage for ebay in the uk. the syrian hacking group provided this image as supposed proof of a hack on ebay and paypal on feb. 1, 2014. world syrian electronic army: we hacked ebay and paypal written by fran berkman about 6 years ago update - feb. 1, 2014, 6:20 p.m. et: anuj nayar, paypal's senior director of global initiatives, told mashable, "for a brief period today, a very limited number of people visiting certain paypal and ebay marketing pages in the uk, france and india we... image: charlie riedel/associated press entertainment how google ruined 'what time is the super bowl?' written by the atlantic about 6 years ago perusing the metaphorical tomes of modern civilization, we can already speak to some of the great questions -- the ones that might define our era. "how do we balance security and liberty?" captivates our public discussions. scientists struggle to res... denver broncos cheerleaders and seattle seahawks sea gals cheerleaders celebrate with blitz, the seahawks mascot, on jan. 31 in new york city. image: ted s. warren/associated press entertainment twitter account helps sports noobs sound smart during super bowl written by brian anthony hernandez about 6 years ago non-sports fans: if you're going to a super bowl party on sunday, and have no clue how to join your friends' football banter, have no fear because logo tv wants to help you. throughout the game, the channel's twitter account (@logotv) is planning a "... tech flying beer drone is intoxicating, faa delivers immediate hangover written by adario strange about 6 years ago although amazon's drone delivery system isn't expected to launch until 2015, one enterprising businessman is trying to speed up the program's debut by offering something that might inspire a bit more urgency: beer. jack supple, president of lakemaid ... image: matt sayles/associated press world dylan farrow speaks out on woody allen sexual abuse allegations written by fran berkman about 6 years ago woody allen's golden globe lifetime achievement award reignited a debate about past charges of child sexual abuse against the hollywood director, and now his alleged victim has decided to add her voice to the debate. dylan farrow, daughter of allen's... entertainment nike's new cleats to debut at the super bowl written by pat gillespie about 6 years ago super bowl xlviii may be one of the coldest in nfl history, but nike's latest innovation may make it one of the fastest, too. the sports apparel company recently announced that broncos and seahawks players will wear its newest football cleats, the va... image: flickr, cabinet office business the journey to a stellar internship program written by heather huhman about 6 years ago the journey to a coveted internship program isn't easy. for job seekers, an internship can be a great way to test the waters of a new company or industry, as well as gain invaluable experience; but opportunities are often competitive and can be elusi... image: snapchat, shaun mcbride entertainment kooky snapchat artist shares his adventures 10 seconds at a time written by dasha battelle about 6 years ago while it's not the most conventional form of artistic expression, snapchat has enabled a whole new wave of artists to share their creative works for 10 seconds. meet shaun mcbride. he's a sales rep for snowboarding companies, and he's all about snapc... mark zuckerberg speaks to a crowd at facebook's headquarters. image: ap photo/associated press entertainment 8 facebook cynics who doubted the company's direction written by yohana desta about 6 years ago not everyone believed in facebook. the company, which turns 10 years old feb. 4, has blossomed into one of the most famous and frequented websites in the world. what started out as a social online tool for college kids transformed into a mass network... image: flickr, 0x45455844 tech 6 music mixing apps to help you be your own dj written by marissa cetin about 6 years ago if pressing play on a shuffled playlist isn't enough for you, it's time to step up to the dj deck. with these music mixing apps, you can loop, cue, crossfade, pitch-shift and more to remix your digital library. even apps for tablets and smartphones a... athletes who suffer a concussion and return to play are three times more likely to get re-concussed. image: flickr, house committee on education and the workforce democrats u.s. the concussion crisis is deadlier than ever — can tech solve it? written by conrad wilson about 6 years ago jake woolley remembers the day he got his fourth concussion. it was nice weather for football on nov. 9 in pocatello, idaho: a clear sky, about 55 degrees at kickoff. nearly 5,000 people had gathered to see the idaho state bengals take on the visitin... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 50 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.