we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for march 2008 entertainment source close to ask.com debunks rumor of teoma engine replacement written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago a rumor peddled by peter kafka of silicon alley insider in a article sent to press friday morning, concerning iac’s alleged consideration of the replacement of ask’s search engine technology, teoma, with the vastly more popular system employed by goo... entertainment presidential hopefuls spending little on web ads. why? social networking. written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago the 2008 u.s. presidential election is in full swing now. of course, it arguably has been geared up to a full-on race for the democratic and republican party nominations, yet only recently have we been given the privilege of hindsight into the conten... entertainment amazon mp3 now open to linux users written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago amazon mp3 has been around for several months now. and it’s doing pretty good. decent amount of press coverage when it hit the stage. decent song selection, all with decent sound quality. and just about everything is decent with the all-drm-free prog... entertainment indian it: outsourcing to decline? written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago in a piece published friday in forbes, sramana mitra documented the numerical reasons why india’s outsourcing industry - commanded by corporations like infosys and wipro - is bound to decline. and maybe even die, if the current hiring binge, the stea... entertainment rss reader newsfire goes free written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago are you an mac fanatic? if so, how do you prefer reading the mashable feed? via a third-party web-based service? or through a more local piece of software? for those of you who can’t quite get yourselves to adopt a strictly web-based lifestyle when i... entertainment pownce improves its api written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago as if twitter users haven't had enough headaches as of late with downtime, sxsw is looming, and everyone thinks that is going to strain the system even further. this seems the perfect time for a competitor to make a move, and according to mike gunder... entertainment zogby says most americans like to read news on the web. go figure. written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago a zogby interactive-we media poll taken online recently tells us that some 67% of americans consider “traditional journalism” out of touch, and nearly half of respondents are said to be “turning to the internet to get their news,” reuters has reporte... entertainment twitter increasing server capacity in runup to sxsw written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago earlier today we reported on pownce improving its api, and how this combined with suspected stress on twitter from sxsw might be the chance for the upstart microblogging platform to move up in the rankings. well, allen stern of center networks brings... entertainment iac's launch of gaming site instantaction imminent written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago iac, the parent company of ask.com, is looking to get into online gaming in a big way. according to rafat ali of paidcontent.org, iac's is looking to spend $50-100 million to build their new gaming portal, instantaction into something that carries ti... entertainment 7 great online image editing apps written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago the vast majority of people don't really need heavyweight image editing applications like photoshop or aperture. luckily, you can find a lot of great, online applications that'll do just fine for some simple everyday photo editing tasks. interestingl... entertainment microsoft to pry open bag on cloud office apps (that we really want)? written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago there’s a little rumor spreading slowly around the tech blogosphere. it was delivered first by nicholas carr of rough type earlier today, and anticipates the arrival of word from microsoft as to its web-app strategy. yes, so says carr’s headline on t... entertainment facebook now offering german language support written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago facebook has grown to very notable international proportions (numerically speaking) over the last couple of years, but it’s been slow to expand its lingual repertoire. only recently has the site been amended to allow users whose primary language is s... entertainment wikipedia founder jimmy wales uses own site to talk gossip? written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago there are a number of things wikipedia discourages its users from doing when editing or adding to the site. actions that incur a good bit of wrist-slapping include, for example, the construction or amendment of autobiographies. the reason of course f... entertainment a close(r) look at the great firewall of china written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago you’ve probably heard a lot of talk about the "great firewall" erected by the chinese government to keep a tight leash on internet users based on the mainland. it’s all the rage these days, especially with the arrival of the 2008 olympic summer games... entertainment realnetworks rumored to be eyeing scrabulous written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago it appears that realnetworks may be looking to purchase scrabulous, the much-loved scrabble clone that was the favorite app amongst facebook employess mere months ago. according to a comment made by om malik of gigaom (in response to a new york times... entertainment last.fm helps sxsw music fans find the sounds they crave written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago the south by southwest interactive conference, or sxsw for short, is a big deal. a really big deal. the number of musical acts scheduled to be in attendance at the austin-based festival will top 1500 this year, and given that the various events compr... entertainment after long delay, onion movie to debut written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago no, not a movie about onions, people. though that would be frickin' trippy, wouldn't it? we're guessing. moving on.... the onion is compendium of comedy that is equal parts incisive, deadpan, and intelligently stupid. and for that we can say naught b... entertainment wales-marsden breakup chronicle continues: ex-gf auctions clothes on ebay written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago call it "break-up 2.0." it seems using the web as a bullhorn for romantic break-ups is all the rage with the kids these days. as we reported earlier today, jimmy wales, the founder of wikipedia, said on his profile on the site that he was not romanti... entertainment mashable conversations: week in review written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins about 12 years ago it's leap year, and it's a weekend. i say that's cause for celebration ... with a mashable conversations week in review! who's with me? get the mashable conversations podcast here. add directly to itunes here (or give us a rating). add directly to yo... entertainment youtube us election page adds more sources to video catalogue written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago youtube is reporting on the company blog that the site's youchoose '08 page is getting some changes as the candidate field continues to narrow. as the national focus begins to shift from the primaries and caucuses to the conventions and eventual nati... entertainment 11 resources for learning guitar on the web written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago you can learn to do just about anything on the web, and guitar playing is no different. yeah, i know you've mastered the toughest songs on guitar hero iii, but can you actually play a guitar? we've got 11 tools to help you start living out your dream... entertainment gaming to carry and grow social networks well into future written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago there is noticeably heightened interest being expressed in online gaming - particularly casual online gaming. call it a world of warcraft syndrome of some sort. or call it the wii games-effect, if you like. what’s for certain, is that social gaming -... entertainment akimbo raises more capital for its video distribution business written by paul glazowski about 12 years ago recognize the name akimbo? it’s a title taken by a company based in san mateo, california, whose video distribution system is its main attraction. the system provides content owners and publishers a multi-faceted framework through which to distribute... entertainment data portability is boring written by guest writer about 12 years ago this guest post was contributed by well-known web skeptic drama 2.0. data portability is a hot topic in the web 2.0 community. i’ve previously weighed in with my opinion: data portability is not a universal right and the value a company may receive f... entertainment predictify platform launches with freakonomics written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago predictify is a community-based prediction site where users can earn money based on th accuracy of their responses for participating in the site's questions and events. first reviewed here, predictify officially launched to the public a few months ag... entertainment turn smart market fully automates targeted behavioral ads written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago turn inc., the ad network founded by jim barnett, the former ceo of altavista, came on the scene with $8 million in a round of funding last year, and is now furthering its automated ad placement process with the launching of the turn smart market. ha... entertainment mzinga acquires prospero to grow online community solutions sector written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago mzinga, a provider of online community solutions, has acquired prospero technologies, which specializes in the same saas approach for enterprise and consumer use. financial terms of the acquisition were not disclosed. given the vast history behind th... entertainment practice what you preach: nine inch nails gives away new album written by stan schroeder about 12 years ago it's not like we doubted him, but trent reznor really meant it when he said that he hates the way the music industry operates and that he encourages sharing of his music on the internet. nine inch nails have put up the first volume of their album 'gh... entertainment fastcompany.tv launches with scobleizer and fastcompany live written by stan schroeder about 12 years ago the recently redesigned fastcompany has launched its video counterpart, fastcompany.tv. first two shows are scobleizer, which needs no introduction, and fastcompany live, which features live shows filmed with a nokia n95 and streamed via qik.com's se... entertainment compete acquired by tns for $75 million written by stan schroeder about 12 years ago taylor nelson sofres plc (tns), has just announced it acquired web analytics company compete, inc. for $75 million in cash plus deferred cash payments in 2008-2010 of up to another $75 million. the acquisition comes at a time when compete announced r... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 22 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.