we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for july 2009 entertainment successful marriage proposal on twitter today: we #blamedrewscancer written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago drew olanoff, the twitter user who started the #blamedrewscancer campaign after being diagnosed with hodgkin's lymphoma earlier this year, made a successful proposal of marriage to his girlfriend sarah cooley on twitter today (here's her "yes"). we l... entertainment michael jackson sells 2.6 million downloads this week written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago it's easy to forget how good something is until it's gone. i guess this is also the case with the king of pop, whose musical career wasn't exactly soaring in the past decade, but now that jackson has passed away, everyone remembers him for the good, ... entertainment the joost story: sometimes, good projects also fail written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago i remember being excited about joost. i had access to an early beta version, and the service did what it promised to do: it brought high quality premium video content to my computer. it also had a good interface with plenty of features, and - conside... entertainment mashable's weekly guide to jobs in social media & web development written by tamar weinberg over 10 years ago if you're seeking a job in social media, we'd like to help out. for starters, mashable's job lists section gathers together all our resource lists, how-tos and expert guides to help you get hired. in particular, you might want to see our articles on ... entertainment facebook to twannounce "twivacy changes" twomorrow? written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago facebook is hosting a webcast for press tomorrow about "upcoming privacy changes" to the site: the announcement will likely outline facebook's transition toward becoming more public - some might say more twitter-like. we already know change is on the... entertainment china gives up on green dam, people celebrate written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago in a very unexpected move, the chinese authorities have indefinitely postponed their order that all pcs sold in the country must come with software, called green dam youth escort, that blocks certain websites. according to reuters, chinese artist and... entertainment how to: use wikis for business projects written by jeff hobbs over 10 years ago jeff hobbs is director of engineering at activestate and works on workspace and dynamic languages. he blogs occasionally at blogs.activestate.com. one of the best web tools available to businesses for enabling teamwork and collaboration is the wiki. ... entertainment facebook's twitter-like transition begins with new privacy options written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago over the past couple weeks, we’ve learned a lot about upcoming changes to facebook that will significantly change the nature of the site. for example, a new publisher option will allow you to post completely “public” updates, or post them to select g... entertainment facebook’s complete privacy presentation written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago as we reported earlier today, facebook has announced some sweeping changes to user privacy settings in an effort to both make it easier for users to understand them, and also beef up the amount of public content sharing that takes place on the site. ... entertainment twitter promotion done right: #moonfruit written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago a few weeks ago, we wrote about a promotion from website builder squarespace, where the company offered up 30 iphones in 30 days to be randomly awarded to users who included #squarespace with their tweets. the campaign worked in getting exposure - #s... entertainment your facebook photos = bing's new homepage written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago one of the unique aspects of bing is the background images it uses on its homepage, that include information about the picture when you roll over various parts of it. the feature actually originated on the previous incarnation of microsoft’s search e... entertainment forget love: paypal wants you to do stuff for money written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago ever have one of those conversations that culminates in someone saying “i’d give you $20 to _____”? that’s the premise of a new site paypal has launched: do stuff for money. the site is rather straightforward: input your name, who you’re offering mon... entertainment bing includes tweets with search results (for famous people) written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago there’s a growing fascination with the so called “real-time web,” with google, facebook, and twitter all reportedly working on major changes to their search tools that leverage status updates and tweets to do a better job of indexing the web. but mic... entertainment live now: obama takes your questions on healthcare written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago as promised, president obama is set to start his live stream in a few minutes (starting 1.15pm et), answering the public's questions on healthcare reform with live discussion on social media channels. the video will be streamed live at whitehouse.gov... entertainment gmail kills right side labels, adds drag and drop written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago there's good news and bad news for gmail users today. the good: gmail is releasing "drag and drop" for labels. this means that if you want to label a mail, you can simply drag and drop it over the label in your left sidebar and you're done. gmail is ... entertainment gdgt: engadget founders launch "the world's greatest gadget database" written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago update: moments after our test run, the gdgt site is now down, presumably due to too much traffic. -- ryan block and pete rojas, creators of the leading gadget blog engadget, flicked the switch moments ago on their new gadget community, gdgt. what is... entertainment new internet explorer ad features projectile vomiting [video] written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago microsoft has started running a series of online ads for internet explorer 8, including this curiosity featuring a woman projectile vomiting. the other ads in the series, posted to youtube last week, are a little less risky. the technologizer blog cl... entertainment youtwitface: no longer just a conan joke written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago "youtube, twitter and facebook will merge to form one super time-wasting website called youtwitface", conan o'brien predicted in his hilarious year 3000 sketch (below). he may not be far wrong: the sites are becoming increasingly intertwined, with yo... entertainment michael jackson's thriller: 28 million views since his death written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago michael jackson's online popularity continues to soar: we reported previously that 2.6 million michael jackson songs were downloaded this week; nielsen soundscan says that no artist has ever sold more than 1 million downloads in a single week. but ja... entertainment spam in twitter trends, again (update: not really spam) written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago twitter's trending topics are a great way to find out what's hot in the twitterverse, but they're also a haven for malicious hackers and spammers who are constantly finding new ways on how to abuse them. this time, an odd, vulgar hashtag has appeared... entertainment staggering #iranelection stats: 2 million+ total tweets written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago in mid-may we published stats that measured the scale of the #iranelection coverage on twitter, as tracked by social media tracking service trendrr. mashable's ben parr remarked that we were "approaching one million tweets on the situation", although... entertainment runpee: iphone app tells moviegoers when it's safe to pee written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago it's a rare find: an iphone app that's both useful and hilarious. runpee, an existing website that launched its iphone app today, checks both those boxes. here's the idea: you're watching a movie in the theater and need to take a restroom break, but ... entertainment official claims: green dam was not dropped, only postponed written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago i guess the celebrations were premature. according to a china government official, chinese authorities haven't given up on web filtering program green dam; they've just postponed it. the controversial program was supposed to be installed on all new p... entertainment twitter increases api limit written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago tweetdeck users have noticed tonight that their hourly api call limit has been increased from 100 to 150 per hour, essentially meaning you can get more frequent twitter updates if you require them. twitter, however, has made no announcement, and the ... entertainment new guidelines for web tracking ensure more privacy written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago surf the web for a couple of minutes, and - usually without anyone asking you - you're giving away a lot of personal data to the various companies that are tracking your browsing habits. yes, you can set your browser security to high and turn off coo... entertainment can the new pirate bay succeed? written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago hans pandeya, the ceo of global gaming factory (the swedish company that had recently acquired the pirate bay for $7.8 million) has an ambitious plan for the new pirate bay. it seems bold, perhaps even too bold at first, but hans thinks he has a plan... entertainment understanding luxury brands and social media written by samir balwani over 10 years ago samir balwani is an emerging technology strategist at morpheus media, a firm specializing in social marketing, sem, and seo. you can follow him on twitter @samirbalwani and get his newsletter. one of the biggest misconceptions by brand managers is th... entertainment jammie thomas to appeal her $1.92 million riaa verdict written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago jammie thomas-rasset, the woman who was charged with copyright infringement through online file sharing, tried to fight, and subsequently lost, will appeal the verdict in her case, which ordered her to pay $1.92 million in damages to the recording in... entertainment iphone 3gs used to film music video: technologic overkill written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago not to be confused with the first music video about the iphone 3gs ("got my mac on with iphone 3gs"), the first video purportedly shot using the camera on the new device is making its way around the web. the video - “technologic overkill” – is direct... entertainment godaddy wants you to go twitter written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago ideally, your brand has the same name across all of the social sites you use, and, it matches your domain name (for example, we’re mashable.com, twitter.com/mashable, and facebook.com/mashable). realizing this fact, popular domain registrar godaddy h... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 16 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.