we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for june 2011 entertainment fox news launches its ipad app [exclusive] written by ben parr almost 9 years ago fox news is announcing wednesday the release of its official ipad application, a visually-focused news experience with a big-name sponsor. the app, which is now available in the app store , was built from the ground up. the focus was on creating a vi... entertainment zynga's newest social game lets you fight your friends written by ben parr almost 9 years ago zynga, the creators of farmville and cityville, is about to unleash its newest social game upon the world: empires & allies, the company's first combat strategy game. the social gaming giant describes empires & allies as "cityville meets risk." unlik... entertainment space shuttle endeavour lands for the last time [video] written by stan schroeder almost 9 years ago space shuttle endeavour touched down safely at the kennedy space center at 2:34 a.m. et, ending its last mission. endeavour's sts-134 mission was originally supposed to be the final mission of nasa's space shuttle program, but the sts-135 mission was... entertainment king camera is a dark room for your iphone photos written by jennifer van grove almost 9 years ago the spark of genius series highlights a unique feature of startups and is made possible by microsoft bizspark. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. name: king camera quick pitch: king camera is... entertainment roku to bring angry birds & other games to the tv written by stan schroeder almost 9 years ago you can play angry birds on a variety of smartphones, on your desktop or -- if you're imaginative enough -- in real life. now, internet-connected tv platform roku has partnered up with game maker rovio to bring angry birds to the tv. roku plans to of... entertainment htc sensation 4g coming to t-mobile by june 15 written by stan schroeder almost 9 years ago the htc sensation 4g will become available exclusively to t-mobile customers no later than june 15, the company has announced. the android 2.3 smartphone sports a 4.3-inch lcd touch screen, a dual-core 1.2 ghz processor and an 8-megapixel camera capa... entertainment the top 4 stories in tech, social media & business this morning written by lauren indvik almost 9 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. we’re keeping our eyes on four particular stories of interest today. google offers launches wednesday google exe... entertainment laptop thief nabbed thanks to hidden security camera app & tumblr blog written by brenna ehrlich almost 9 years ago oh, the power of the internet. remember joshua kaufman, who put up a tumblr just the other day featuring pictures of the man who stole his laptop taken with security app, hidden? well, it seems the cops have finally nabbed the thief. the macbook in q... entertainment can a mobile app put activism in your pocket? written by zachary sniderman almost 9 years ago one.org, the anti-poverty advocacy group co-founded by bono, just released its first app designed to raise the profile and efficacy of digital advocacy. one is interesting because it doesn't actually want your money. instead, the organization asks it... entertainment mtv launches tumblr as part of digital expansion written by brenna ehrlich almost 9 years ago mtv has just added another social media tool to its roster in the form of a new tumblr blog featuring original and reblogged content. in an ongoing effort to expand its platform into all areas of the digital sphere -- the most recent push being the i... entertainment attention narcissists: intel's museum of me app is for you [video] written by todd wasserman almost 9 years ago have you ever wondered what people mean when they say, “my life flashed in front of my eyes?” well, if all your life took place on facebook, it might look like intel’s new museum of me app. museum of me takes everything you’ve done on facebook and tu... entertainment keyboard case enhances ipad 2 with a sleek, matching design written by charlie white almost 9 years ago the gadget of the day series is supported by the energizer® inductive charger, which brings you the next generation of charging with qi technology. qi is the new universal standard for wireless charging ... now that’s positivenergy™. product: logitec... entertainment 13% of online americans use twitter [stats] written by lauren indvik almost 9 years ago thirteen percent of online americans use twitter, up a full 5% from november 2010, according to a pew research center study released wednesday. much of that growth came from younger adults, pew found. nearly one in five u.s. internet users ages 25 to... business tiffany & co. releases user-generated map of world's romantic moments written by lauren indvik almost 9 years ago tiffany has launched a multimedia-rich microsite and iphone app designed to be the "go-to resource" for romantics everywhere. after a short film entitled will you marry me? by director edward burns, which features proposal stories from various couple... entertainment did google hide apple's data center on its satellite images? written by sarah kessler almost 9 years ago apple confirmed its plans to build a data center in maiden, north carolina in 2009. but despite images of the 500,000 square-foot facility from news organizations and a citizen helicopter videographer, evidence of its construction only appeared on go... entertainment iamamiwhoami announces festival appearance via mysterious phone number written by brenna ehrlich almost 9 years ago once-mysterious musical project iamamiwhoami has announced today that it will finally perform live, at sweden's way out west festival, via a phone number on the act's website. if you call the number, you'll hear beeping -- presumably from the end of ... entertainment tumblr users can now record & share music with soundcloud written by brenna ehrlich almost 9 years ago soundcloud, one of the most popular music-sharing sites for musicians, has announced a partnership with tumblr that will make it much easier for bands to disseminate music in a social way. soundcloud users will now be able to record music while on th... entertainment google’s +1 button challenges facebook’s like across the web written by adam ostrow almost 9 years ago google is taking its +1 feature beyond search results and launching a button that publishers can include on their own websites. the button, which debuted in march in google search, will compete with the likes of the already ubiquitous sharing buttons... entertainment how one impressive mobile app plans to overcome language barriers written by jennifer van grove almost 9 years ago the global innovation series is supported by bmw i, a new concept dedicated to providing mobility solutions for the urban environment. it delivers more than purpose-built electric vehicles -- it delivers smart mobility services. visit bmw-i.com or fo... entertainment netflix ceo: want complete online movie selection? try apple, amazon written by chris taylor almost 9 years ago reed hastings has a message for anyone looking for a comprehensive catalog of streaming movies and tv shows: don't go to netflix. speaking at the all things d conference in california, the netflix founder and ceo celebrated his company's success and ... entertainment groupon, livingsocial launch realtime deals battle in new york written by todd wasserman almost 9 years ago groupon and livingsocial plan to battle in the new york market with competing local daily deals services. groupon's expansion, which started wednesday, builds upon the may 20 debut of groupon now in chicago, groupon's hometown. groupon now also launc... entertainment now you can google +1 mashable stories written by meghan peters almost 9 years ago google has announced the launch of its +1 button for websites. mashable is a launch partner for +1, and we're excited by this opportunity for our community to share our content with friends in a new way. we've added google +1 buttons to our site so t... entertainment twitter unveils photo & video sharing written by chris taylor almost 9 years ago after years of leaving photos and videos to third-party services like twitpic and yfrog, twitter has finally launched its own version. "a native photosharing experience will be rolled out to 100% of users over the next couple of weeks," twitter ceo d... entertainment linkedin to launch job application button written by sarah kessler almost 9 years ago linkedin will launch a button for employers' websites called "apply with linkedin" that allows job candidates to submit their linkedin profiles as resumes, according to a report. twitter and google have both launched new buttons this week, and now it... entertainment hipster offers pbr, skinny jeans and $10,000 for hiring help written by brenna ehrlich almost 9 years ago remember hipster, that q&a startup that received so much buzz back in january -- before anyone even knew what it was -- based on its name alone? well, now hipster is hiring, and is offering scads of hipster-themed prizes for referrals and applicants.... entertainment esquire challenges ipad owners to "the hardest puzzle ever" written by lauren indvik almost 9 years ago esquire has released an ipad app the publication is calling "the hardest puzzle ever." it is certainly very difficult. the game combines rubik's cube-style puzzles with riddles -- including those with and without google-able answers -- of scaling dif... entertainment 5 key shifts happening right now in the world of digital marketing written by adam ostrow almost 9 years ago “we're living through the social revolution, which is every bit as significant as the industrial revolution.” so began the remarks of david jones, the global ceo of havas and euro rscg, who keynoted the mashable connect conference at walt disney worl... entertainment venmo now overnights funds to your bank account written by jennifer van grove almost 9 years ago social payments startup venmo is meant to be both a practical and enjoyable way for friends to electrically exchange money, split bills and make good on ious. a recent service update might also make it the fastest way to cash out on funds friends hav... entertainment does this audi commercial rip off eminem? [video] written by todd wasserman almost 9 years ago does a new audi ad use the backing track from eminem’s "lose yourself" or is it just similar? eight mile style, the publisher of eminem’s copyrights, thinks it is the actual song and is seeking an injunction against the automaker in germany's hamburg... entertainment shaq announces retirement via twitter written by adam ostrow almost 9 years ago basketball star shaquille o’neal has announced his retirement from the nba via twitter and a short video he linked to from the microblogging site on wednesday. in the video, which was posted to startup tout, o’neal says, “i want to thank you very muc... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 33 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.