we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for june 2014 image: prnewsfoto/virgin america/associated press entertainment virgin america puts its personality into new website written by jessica plautz almost 6 years ago the new virgin america website makes the flight-booking process more visual, simplifying it as much as possible. tech teleportation is closer to moving data, but not people written by katie nelson almost 6 years ago scientists in the netherlands have proven that quantum teleportation isn't just possible -- it can be a practical way of transporting data. culture viral video recap: the glorious return of keyboard cat and more written by chelsea stark almost 6 years ago keyboard cat, morgan freeman's luxurious voice on helium and ducks stopping traffic are all part of this week's viral video recap. transgender activist and author of 'redefining realness' janet mock attends a book signing event on march 28. image: flickr, san francisco lgbt community center u.s. 10 lgbt-rights activists to follow on twitter written by yohana desta almost 6 years ago june marks pride month. stay tapped into the conversation by following these 10 well-known lgbt-rights activists on twitter. micah lee is the digital bodyguard who protects glenn greenwald, laura poitras and other reporters working on the snowden documents. image: mashable, wes rowe world must reads: a digital bodyguard for snowden's docs and more written by megan hess almost 6 years ago during the week, we consume words in snackable, tweetable bites. but on the weekends, we have the time to take a dive into the murkier, lengthier depths of the internet and expand our attention spans beyond 140 characters. we can brew a cup of coffee... entertainment 10 decor projects for a quick and easy diy fix written by andrea romano almost 6 years ago even the craftiest diy divas don't have time to sit around all day fussing around with their mason jars and mod podge. entertainment 11 veggies you can regrow from leftovers written by dennis green almost 6 years ago don't just throw out your leftovers. businessman and co-owner of the philadelphia inquirer lewis katz walks from judge patricia mcinerney's courtroom monday, oct. 28, 2013, in city hall in philadelphia. image: matt rourke/associated press world philadelphia inquirer co-owner among 7 dead in massachusetts plane crash written by anita li almost 6 years ago lewis katz, co-owner of 'the philadelphia inquirer,' was among seven people who died in a plane crash in massachusetts, the newspaper's editor confirmed. jupiter's largest moon, ganymede, ducks behind the red giant once every seven days. image: nasa goddard space flight center world is jupiter earth's friend or foe? written by space.com almost 6 years ago is jupiter a friendly planet, earth's enemy, or perhaps both? culture 7 daily struggles from the napster era written by max knoblauch almost 6 years ago dealing with slow dial-up mp3 downloads will be the millennial's "walking uphill both ways." apple ceo tim cook reaches for an iphone as he speaks at apple's worldwide developer conference (wwdc) in san francisco on june 10, 2013. image: josh edelson/afp/getty images tech apple wwdc 2014: what to expect written by pete pachal almost 6 years ago if you use an iphone, ipad or mac, monday is the day everything changes. apple will shake up its software platforms with ios 8 and os x 10.10. culture all men must diy: 10 crafts inspired by 'game of thrones' written by andrea romano almost 6 years ago brace yourselves. crafts are coming. president barack obama walks with jani bergdahl, left, and her husband bob bergdahl, right after he spoke about the release of their son, u.s. army sgt. bowe bergdahl, in the rose garden of the white house in washington, saturday, may 31, 2014. bergdahl, 28, had been held prisoner by the taliban since june 30, 2009. image: jacquelyn martin/associated press world afghan pow rescue operation sped up to 'save his life': hagel written by samantha murphy kelly almost 6 years ago u.s. defense secretary chuck hagel said the operation to rescue army sgt. bowe bergdahl was quickly done without notifying congress because bergdahl's life was in danger. college of dupage hosted its second annual career fair, sponsored by the chicago tribune feb. 8, on the college's main campus in glen ellyn. image: flickr, cod newsroom business 150+ job openings in digital media at time inc., bloomberg and more written by emily chow almost 6 years ago looking for a job? the mashable job board is the place to search. with over 3,000 employers, we have a wide variety of top companies seeking talented people to fill job openings in different industries. also be sure to read our job search series for ... belgian federal prosecutor frederic van leeuw addresses the media at the federal prosecutor's office in brussels, sunday, june 1, 2014. prosecutors say that a frenchman arrested over killings at a belgian jewish museum had traveled to syria and claimed responsibility for the shootings in a video. image: yves logghe/associated press world police arrest suspect in belgium jewish museum killings written by samantha murphy kelly almost 6 years ago the gunman who opened fire and killed three people at a jewish museum in belgium last weekend has been arrested and identified as a 29-year-old frenchman. women from india's bharatiya janata party protest the rape and slayings of the two indian teenagers from last week. image: rajesh kumar singh/associated press world three men confess to gang rape, murder of teen girls in india written by kurt wagner almost 6 years ago three men have confessed to raping and then murdering two teenage girls in india last week, police said sunday, according to a report. upcoming.org founder andy baio. image: flickr, gabriel shalom business upcoming.org kickstarter clears $100,000, founder: 'i won't sell out again' written by karissa bell almost 6 years ago the kickstarter campaign to fund the relaunch of upcoming.org closed friday after raising more than $100,000 -- more than three times its original goal. justin timberlake (l), who co-owns myspace with specific media, is seen here in 2000 with other members of n'sync, joey fatone, center, and lance bass. image: mitch jacobson/associated press entertainment myspace is embarrassing users with old photos to win them back written by kurt wagner almost 6 years ago myspace is emailing users old photos of themselves in hopes of enticing them to return to the service. image: mashable composite. mashable;, humin tech first look at humin, the app that wants to take over your phone written by karissa bell almost 6 years ago a first look at humin, the app that wants to take over your phone. ann b. davis starred as housekeeper alice nelson in the brady bunch. image: abc photo archives/abc via getty images entertainment 'brady bunch' star ann b. davis dies at 88 after fall in home written by brian anthony hernandez almost 6 years ago emmy-winning actress ann b. davis, who is best known for her role as housekeeper alice nelson in the "the brady bunch," died sunday. attendees at a brazilian internet governance conference hold up photos of former nsa analyst edward snowden on april 23, 2014. image: andre penner/associated press world report: nsa collects millions of images each day for facial recognition written by kurt wagner almost 6 years ago the nsa is collecting millions of photos from emails, texts, social networks and videoconferences for facial recognition purposes, according to documents. image: flickr, daniel peckham u.s. what is the best u.s. destination for summer vacation? written by ryan lytle almost 6 years ago vote for the ultimate u.s. summer vacation in our poll. a drone flies at the international consumer electronics show on jan. 8, 2014, in las vegas. image: jae c. hong/associated press world drone beat: delivering drinks for $20k, hunting hurricanes and more written by lorenzo franceschi-bicchierai almost 6 years ago a club in vegas is using drones to deliver bottles, scientists will use uavs to study hurricanes in the ocean and more in this week's drone beat. tech iphone case lets you know about messages before your phone does written by melissa goldin almost 6 years ago waste not, want not. this iphone case harnesses leftover electromagnetic energy to power an led notification system. peter sunde speaking to journalists outside a swedish appeal court in stockholm on september 28, 2010. image: afp, jonathan nackstrand world pirate bay cofounder arrested in sweden written by adario strange almost 6 years ago after almost two years of evading authorities, pirate bay file sharing site co-founder peter sunde was arrested in sweden on saturday. sunde had been on the run after being sentenced to serve one year in prison for copyright violations back in 2009, ... smoke rises from the colstrip steam electric station, a coal-burning power plant in colstrip, montana. image: matthew brown/associated press world obama administration proposes 30% cuts to power plant carbon emissions written by andrew freedman almost 6 years ago the epa's climate regulations, if implemented, would amount to the most significant step the u.s. has ever taken to combat manmade global warming, and the biggest domestic clean air policy since at least 1990. image: flickr, david goehring business why today's college graduates must be self-sufficient written by stephanie walden almost 6 years ago sorry grads: there are no syllabi in the working world. here are a few suggestions on developing self-sufficiency in your first post-grad job. the mountain fights the red viper in episode 8 of season 4 of 'game of thrones'. image: hbo entertainment 'game of thrones' recap: the mountain and the viper written by chelsea stark almost 6 years ago the fight we've all been waiting for. scoot mcnairy and lee pace in episode 1 of &quot;halt and catch fire.&quot; image: amc entertainment 'halt and catch fire' episode 1 recap: keep your stories straight written by aj marechal almost 6 years ago 'halt and catch fire' opens with an armadillo struck by a ferrari. those who can’t keep up with joe macmillan had better get out of his way. tech vhoto selects the best photos from iphone videos written by patrick gillespie almost 6 years ago vhoto lets you choose the best photos from iphone videos. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 63 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.