we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for september 2009 entertainment a major milestone: opera 10 is here written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago opera is a browser that perhaps doesn't have a huge market share, but it always brings innovation to the table, and is often the leader in many segments, even with fierce competition from chrome, safari, firefox, and (now) internet explorer. now, it'... entertainment your new facebook friend: a rare ugandan gorilla written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago are all your facebook friends boring? do they only talk about how tough work is and how they can't wait to go home? here's a chance to spice up your facebook profile a little: soon, you'll be able to befriend a rare ugandan gorilla! although it's jus... entertainment twitter is now bigger than myspace in the uk written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago remember when myspace was an untouchable giant? and after that, remember all those stories about facebook overtaking it, first internationally, and later in pretty much all areas? now it seems to be twitter's turn to do the same. according to hitwise... entertainment 5 steps to getting unstuck and pursuing your goals written by jordan english gross over 10 years ago jordan english gross is the founder/coo of saber seven, a new media company developing sites like dorthy.com connecting people with content. he blogs at blog.dorthy.com and can be reached using @jordanenglish. mashable is no stranger to the hundreds ... entertainment skype sold in $2.75 billion deal written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago it’s now confirmed: ebay is selling skype to a group of private investors. the new york times reported that a deal was imminent late last night, and this morning, ebay officially announced it, along with the price: $2.75 billion. specifically, ebay i... entertainment fwix attempts to fill the local news void written by christina warren over 10 years ago one of the most distressing aspects of the freefalling newspaper industry is the effect that has on local news reporting. although the fall of local papers is certainly an opportunity for bloggers and community-driven news sites, for news consumers, ... entertainment facebook tries a new ad format: free samples written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago brands can already purchase advertising on facebook with prompts like “become a fan.” now, these ads are evolving to include other actions, with the most recent example being what appears to be a direct response ad from chic-fil-a. the brand, which h... entertainment what are twitter users sharing? self-portraits, beer, and tattoos written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago social media users are reported to be narcissists, so it’s not too surprising that the most shared types of photos and videos on the site involve faces, people, and self-portraits. this according to yfrog, a photo and video upload service for twitter... entertainment how it works: the continually declining cost of unlimited data backup written by christina warren over 10 years ago we all know how important it is to backup our computers, but studies consistently show that most computer users -- even those that know better -- don't. as internet connections get faster and storage becomes less expensive, online backup services lik... entertainment how to: do good on twitter written by josh catone over 10 years ago this series is supported by toyota prius and presented by harmonytweets, a twitter-based platform for filtering conversations around design, sustainability, eco technology and philanthropy. leverage twitter to communicate around ideals you care about... entertainment google wave: schools and businesses to get an early look written by christina warren over 10 years ago way back in may, google announced google wave at its google i/o conference and since then, the potential game-changing aspects of the new communication platform have left developers and excited users in a frenzy. on september 30th, 100,000 google wav... entertainment disney and marvel: not a blockbuster with twitter users written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago when it comes to breaking news stories, twitter is one of the first places people turn to share their opinions. yesterday's news that disney is acquiring marvel for $4 billion was no exception. we immediately noticed that the twittersphere's reaction... entertainment live video: facebook funded developers demo their apps written by ben parr over 10 years ago it's the end of the summer, and that means vacations, back-to-school, and, most of all, a new wave of social media startups. two weeks ago, we were at the demo day for ycombinator and reviewed some great startups like fanchatter and jobspice. well, n... entertainment it's not just you: gmail not working for most users written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago update: gmail's back up - it's not just you: gmail is indeed down. we've been unable to connect to the popular email service from google and receiving errors for at least 15-20 minutes (as of 4:00pm et) and we're not alone, as there are already thous... entertainment ben & jerry's hubby hubby flavor creating social stir written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago ben & jerry's has never been one to follow the status quo when it comes to their ice cream flavors or their social media marketing tactics. last month we flipped over their upside down status updates, but their latest move is making an even bigger so... entertainment gmail's back up! (but what happened?) written by ben parr over 10 years ago as you're probably aware, gmail's been down for an extended period of time today. it's placed stress on twitter and other parts of the internet as people have panicked at every opportunity (for example, most of the mashable team). gmail seems to be b... entertainment thread turns facebook friends into dating matchmakers written by ben parr over 10 years ago facebook, twitter, and social media are new tools in the online dating realm. while most solutions use facebook or twitter to do things like make it easier to sign in or populate their dating site with data, few really use the social graph to connect... entertainment study: women and wikipedia don't mix written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago women are consummate content creators online. from technology mavens like google's marissa mayer to influential mommy bloggers, and even youtube stars like ijustine, females have played a significant role in shaping web trends. that's why we're sligh... entertainment federal judge promotes civics education on twitter written by barb dybwad over 10 years ago we see twitter being used for many different purposes, some of them less frivolous and actively positive. enter another positive development, this time from federal judge and current first lady of pennsylvania, marjorie o. rendell. she's launched the... entertainment gmail outage causes a google frenzy written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago like most bloggers and news watchers, we like to keep our eyes on google trends to see what the world is currently searching for. as we all know by now, gmail went down earlier today and inconvenienced a majority of gmail users for an extended period... entertainment too many chores? use the web to get someone else to do them written by ben parr over 10 years ago you're busy. you need to get the groceries, return the camera you borrowed, and pick up the kids. oh, and you have work. you can't do it all, nor do you want to. so what do you do? runmyerrand, a boston-based startup funded in part by facebook's fbfu... entertainment la fires: images and video from around the web written by barb dybwad over 10 years ago here in los angeles, ca the weather has been sunny with a chance of fire for the past week as no less than eight major blazes are sweeping through the state. both major and citizen media alike have been providing critical coverage of the 2009 la fire... entertainment google: gmail outage was our bad written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago if you were living in a cave (or at burning man) then you may have missed today's big news that gmail was down for an extended period of time. the gmail outage caused a google frenzy, practically brought twitter to its knees, and impeded the lives of... entertainment 22 facebook funded startups to watch written by ben parr over 10 years ago today, 22 facebook-related startups made their pitches to press, executives, and potential investors at the fbfund demo day. the facebook fbfund is a seed venture fund and mentorship program for businesses built around facebook. they've been working ... entertainment people of walmart: viral blog showcases retailer’s clientele written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago attention walmart shoppers: you’re the subject of a new blog that has gone highly viral. the site people of walmart is seemingly the latest user-submitted photo blog to take off, as walmart shoppers around the country are sending in photos of other c... image: gmail tech 5 things to do while gmail is down written by barb dybwad over 10 years ago ruh roh -- what to do when the tubes are clogged and gmail is down? first: breathe. have you achieved proper air circulation? excellent. now check out our list of humble suggestions for your post-care treatment. 1. immediately flood twitter with twee... entertainment mashable and matt damon build a well: let's do it again! written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago you might remember that one year ago we asked mashable's twitter followers to donate funds to charity: water as part of that charity's born in september campaign. we're happy to announce that, thanks to your generosity and a matching donation from ma... entertainment pandora one gets an update to desktop app 2.0 written by barb dybwad over 10 years ago pandora got a large number of votes in our recent lunchtime poll for favorite music streaming service. and if you're one of the proud subscribers to the pandora one service, you've got some good news today: the pandora desktop app was updated to vers... entertainment lost: regional networks removed from facebook written by ben parr over 10 years ago last month, we picked up on a small change to the facebook interface - the removal of regional networks when browsing groups of friends. we were of the belief that it was a precursor to the removal of regional networks on facebook, something they lau... entertainment imprisoned journalists: we were violently dragged to north korea written by ben parr over 10 years ago "after we were detained, the two of us made every effort to limit the repercussions of our arrest. in the early days of our confinement, before we were taken to pyongyang, we were left for a very brief time with our belongings. with guards right outs... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 20 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.