we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for 2011 entertainment how facebook beat google in 2010 written by pete cashmore about 9 years ago facebook beat out google as the number one most-visited site in the u.s. in 2010, according to the web analytics firm hitwise. how was facebook able to outplay the former web champion, and can google make a comeback in 2011 and beyond? facebook, once... entertainment top 10 twitter trends this week [chart] written by matt silverman about 9 years ago if you're not sure which topic hit the top of the trends in late december, you deserve to be permanently unfollowed. yes, virginia, christmas ranked number one for the second week in a row as tweeters wished each other the merriest on the day of. bey... entertainment 40 new social media resources you may have missed written by zachary sniderman about 9 years ago happy new year! oh, sorry, was that too loud? we all may be nursing festive hangovers from spilling too much bubbly, food, or maybe we're just winding down from the end of the (overlong) holiday season. whatever the cause, tuck into your favorite rea... entertainment 95+ predictions for the web in 2011 written by josh catone about 9 years ago 2010 was a busy year for social media and the web. it began (more or less) with the launch of the apple's genre-defining ipad tablet and culminated with the ascent of facebook as the web's most visited site. in between we had the fall of palm, the ri... entertainment don't depend on iphone clock's alarm on january 2 [updated] written by charlie white about 9 years ago many of us like to use the iphone as an alarm clock, but if you're thinking about setting a one-off alarm to wake you up sunday morning (january 2, 2011), don't do it. twitter was abuzz with complaints and comments about the iphone bug that failed to... entertainment how to: land a job at twitter written by lauren indvik about 9 years ago microblogging service twitter is on a hiring spree, having raised $100 million in september 2009 and another $200 million earlier this month. between that period, twitter roughly tripled its employee base to more than 300 and disclosed plans to "have... entertainment 8 sci-fi technologies that are no longer just fiction written by sarah kessler about 9 years ago a submarine once seemed about as ridiculously impossible as an invisibility cloak seems today. but while technologies like the submarine, bomb, radar and tank once captured the imagination of science fiction authors, science has brought them to the m... entertainment music tech: 8 digital instruments for the cutting edge composer [videos] written by zachary sniderman about 9 years ago some kids grew up wanting to drive deloreans or throw lightdisks at each other. some kids wanted to be rock stars and play for the crowds. these instruments combine both of those dreams into one tech-filled bonanza of light and sound. technology has ... entertainment what are your tech-related resolutions? [poll] written by charlie white about 9 years ago it's time for a fresh start in lots of ways, but what about your tech life? our team of editors found a lot to look forward to in 2011. we foresee big innovations in the mobile space, gaming taking an even more agressive stance with motion detecting ... entertainment how to: use social media to create better customer experiences written by maria ogneva about 9 years ago maria ogneva is the director of social media at nimble, a social relationship management solution that transforms your entire community into business opportunity by leveraging the best of customer relationship management, social media and communicati... entertainment 5 free iphone alarm clocks that actually work written by charlie white about 9 years ago when apple's alarm clock app failed, letting down a multitude of users on new year's day and january 2 due to the bug the company still hasn't fully explained, we started looking for alternatives. apple said yesterday that the failure of its clock ap... entertainment facto.me is an addictive app for sharing facts about yourself written by jolie o'dell about 9 years ago from the maker of designer/developer community forrst comes facto.me, a highly self-referential app that's at least mildly addictive, entertaining and social. the premise is simple: we all have stories to share about ourselves, but sometimes, they do... entertainment mint, the little robot that cleans your floors [pics and video] written by charlie white about 9 years ago it's finally happened: we're so lazy that we can't even bother to take a dust mop to our wood floors. criticisms of our society aside, this little mint automatic floor cleaner will be more than happy to accomplish that task for us. working like a min... entertainment facebook raises $500 million in funding, now worth $50 billion [report] written by ben parr about 9 years ago facebook has received a massive new round of funding: $450 million from goldman sachs and $50 million from russian investment firm digital sky technologies, according to a new report. facebok has raised more than $800 million over five rounds of fund... entertainment is facebook worth $50 billion? [poll] written by charlie white about 9 years ago now it's your turn to react to the news of goldman sachs and digital sky technology's $500 million investment in facebook at a valuation of $50 billion. even with the social network on track to serve 1 trillion display ads per year, it's still a surp... entertainment toshiba to launch a 10.1-inch android tablet written by stan schroeder about 9 years ago toshiba will announce a new, yet unnamed 10.1-inch android tablet this week at ces, engadget reports. the device is not yet ready for production as it awaits the new version of android (honeycomb), which is believed to be optimized for tablets. howev... entertainment what will facebook do with all that money? written by ben parr about 9 years ago under the terms of facebook's massive new round of funding, goldman sachs will invest $450 million in the social network, while previous investor digital sky technologies will add an additional $50 million. not only that, but goldman sachs will help ... entertainment the case for the virtual classroom written by sarah kessler about 9 years ago online education is often dismissed as a pipeline for expensive degrees of little value and a sponge for veterans’ tuition payments. but while it’s true that for-profit universities have made a hefty business out of e-learning, it’s becoming apparent... entertainment samsung: 10 million galaxy s smartphones sold in seven months written by stan schroeder about 9 years ago samsung has announced that it has sold more than 10 million of its flagship android smartphone, the galaxy s, in just less than seven months. samsung's android bet has paid off from the start; after an extensive marketing campaign, samsung shipped mo... entertainment vizio announces android smartphone and tablet written by stan schroeder about 9 years ago vizio, a company best known for its lcd tv products, has announced the launch of an android-based smartphone and tablet. known as the vizio via phone and vizio via tablet (which may or may not be their final names), the devices share a solid amount o... entertainment this morning's 3 biggest stories in tech & business written by lauren indvik about 9 years ago welcome to this morning’s edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. we’re keeping our eyes on three particular stories of interest today. facebook raises $500 million in funding fa... entertainment about.com founder scott kurnit’s startup adkeeper raises $35m written by todd wasserman about 9 years ago adkeeper, the online advertising company led by about.com founder scott kurnit that lets consumers save online ads for later viewing, raised $35 million in series b funding. the round, led by oak investment partners, comes as adkeeper's "keep" button... entertainment "angry birds" headed to psp & ps3 this week written by christina warren about 9 years ago good news playstation 3 and playstation portable owners, angry birds will be available for download as a playstation mini title this week. playstation minis are smaller games that can be downloaded to the psp or ps3. the mini version of angry birds s... entertainment the art of the checkin: from location to content to brand written by caroline giegerich about 9 years ago caroline giegerich is the blogstress behind the daily marauder and a digital marketing consultant. follow her on twitter for more social media and emerging tech insights. within the spectrum of social media, the act of sharing essentially amounts to ... entertainment the muppets do kanye west's "monster" [parody] written by brenna ehrlich about 9 years ago it's the monday after new years, so this is likely to blow your addled mind just a little more than usual: i give you, kanye west's "monster" as sung by the muppets. again, this video is nsfw -- if your workplace frowns on swearing puppets, that is. ... entertainment is instagram the next distribution opportunity for news media? written by lauren indvik about 9 years ago from apps to podcasts, facebook to twitter, flickr to youtube, and more, mainstream media has embraced a number of new, technology-driven -- and often social -- platforms in the past decade to grow and engage its audiences. these tools have, in addit... entertainment apple is now worth more than $300 billion written by ben parr about 9 years ago apple has surpassed $300 billion in market capitalization, achieving a distinction shared currently by only one other company in the world. by monday at 12:10 p.m. et, the price of apple inc. shares has risen by more than seven points to 329.75, givi... entertainment sears enlists bloggers to build consumer electronics buzz written by todd wasserman about 9 years ago in an attempt to earn some credibility in the consumer electronics category, sears has enlisted some top ce bloggers for the sears blue blogger crew, which is making its debut by chronicling ces on behalf of the retailer. the lineup, which includes a... entertainment how to: win the war for the most talented employees written by dan finnigan about 9 years ago dan finnigan is ceo of jobvite, an saas platform for the social web that companies use to find and hire people. you can follow him on twitter at @danfinnigan and read his jobvite blog. in 1997, mckinsey, the leading business consulting firm, publishe... entertainment giant real world claw game can be played remotely written by brenna ehrlich about 9 years ago remember how, as a child, you threw screaming tantrums when your prize of choice slipped through the metallic fingers of those claw machine games? well, now you can reclaim your youth by testing out "the santa claw," a mammoth claw game you can play ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 356 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.