we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for april 2015 actor mark wahlberg attends the premiere of 'the gambler' at the amc lincoln center theater on december 10, 2014 in new york city. image: debby wong/corbis entertainment mark wahlberg is making a movie about boston marathon bombing written by sandra gonzalez almost 5 years ago wahlberg may also star in the film, sources say. super typhoon maysak viewed from the international space station on tuesday march 31, 2015. image: twitter/astrosamantha world space station astronauts snap breathtaking pictures of record-breaking typhoon written by andrew freedman almost 5 years ago the combination of the international space station and social media has been paying off big time lately for weather nerds in the form of images like this one. culture 12 food pranks that serve nothing but trouble written by molly lynch almost 5 years ago you can't trust anyone or anything -- especially not your food. microsoft is finally letting people outside the company touch its spanking-new web browser. image: microsoft tech hands on with microsoft's next browser, project spartan written by lance ulanoff almost 5 years ago the new windows 10 web browser is finally out of the lab and int the hands of windows 10 preview beta testers. here's a hands-on look. rep. warwick sabin, d-little rock, center, cheers with protesters outside of the house chamber at the arkansas state capitol in little rock, ark., monday, march 30, 2015. image: danny johnston/associated press world boycott indiana: who's actually doing something to protest 'anti-gay' law written by brian ries almost 5 years ago these are the businesses, organizations and entertainers who plan to take action to protest indiana's religious freedom restoration act. image: gogole culture google panda is the april fools' joke you wish was a real product written by karissa bell almost 5 years ago it's already april fools' day in japan and google isn't wasting any time. culture husky walks on water, rapture is probably coming written by jeff leeson almost 5 years ago checkmate atheists. tech 7-year-old girl gets 3d printed 'robohand' written by chris grasinger almost 5 years ago when faith lennox was nine months old, she lost her left hand. now at age seven, she's getting one custom made by a 3d printer. a giant vegemite is not coming to melbourne. image: vegemite world 5 smartest april fools' day pranks confusing australians written by jenni ryall almost 5 years ago our top picks for the best in australia. japser and jasmine. image: ragamuffin pet photography culture this pug wedding in australia is what dreams are made of written by jenni ryall almost 5 years ago the pugalicious wedding of the year is happening in melbourne, australia. the new smoothie range from starbucks. image: starbucks u.s. you can now get your starbucks smoothie with a dash of kale written by jenni ryall almost 5 years ago it seems we cannot hide from kale. peruvian circus bear, cholita, will make a new home in colorado. image: courtesy of animal defenders international world abused peruvian circus bear to start a new life in colorado sanctuary written by patrick kulp almost 5 years ago a peruvian bear named cholita that suffered years of torture and mutilation at the hands of a circus is getting a new home in a colorado wildlife sanctuary. aside from name that's way too long, the transformer book t300 chi is a windows 8.1 tablet that transforms into a laptop. image: brian heater/mashable tech asus's new t300 chi: a fine windows tablet with delusions of laptop grandeur written by brian heater almost 5 years ago the asus transformer book t300 chi makes for a fine windows tablet, but don’t go tossing out your laptop anytime soon. image: vicky leta/mashable entertainment 12 european festivals you have to experience this summer written by tim chester almost 5 years ago get on a plane and try one of these weekenders out. joni mitchell attends the 2015 clive davis pre-grammy gala show at the beverly hilton hotel on saturday, feb. 7, 2015, in beverly hills, calif. image: paul hebert/invision/associated press entertainment joni mitchell in intensive care after being found unconscious at home written by blathnaid healy almost 5 years ago light a candle and sing a song, her website says. elgoog. image: elgoog culture you'll need a mirror for google's new search site written by stan schroeder almost 5 years ago tired of the boring, old, usual way you search for things on google? try google's perspective-changing new site, com.google. samsung galaxy blade edge image: samsung tomorrow culture samsung galaxy blade edge is the world's first smartknife written by stan schroeder almost 5 years ago yes, it has come to that -- after smartphones, smart glasses and smartwatches, we know have a smartknife. playstation flow image: sony culture playstation flow lets you literally dive into your games written by stan schroeder almost 5 years ago how much gaming immersion do you really need? large hadron collider being force-controlled by a cern scientist-jedi. image: max brice and daniel dominguez/cern) culture large hadron collider helps scientists confirm existence of the force written by stan schroeder almost 5 years ago cern scientists confirmed wednesday they've found strong evidence for the existence of the force. business groupon is offering cat cab services for april fools' day written by neha prakash almost 5 years ago the future is meow. ms-dos mobile image: microsoft business finally, microsoft launches ms-dos for smartphones written by stan schroeder almost 5 years ago microsoft is going back to its roots with ms-dos mobile. amazon's &quot;redesign&quot; for april fools' day. image: amazon culture amazon is partying like it's 1999 on april fools' day written by stan schroeder almost 5 years ago visitors to amazon today have been greeted by an odd sight: the site has been redesigned to look exactly as it did 16 years ago, in 1999. culture how to avoid getting pranked on april fools' day written by jacqui devaney almost 5 years ago joke's on you, fool. april fools' day is traditionally a day for brands to post lame jokes on twitter. image: cultura rm/c. camarena/getty images culture these uk april fools' jokes are so bad they're almost good written by tim chester almost 5 years ago the annual comedy bandwagon splutters into town again. skeletons were found in rows. image: flickr st john's college cambridge world large medieval burial ground under cambridge is similar to modern cemeteries written by blathnaid healy almost 5 years ago gives new insight into medieval life in england. image: dave kotinsky/getty images culture glitter, gifs and galactic princesses: 20 questions with michelle phan written by andrea romano almost 5 years ago yes, anyone can wear glitter. image: corbis gary waters business why you should quit obsessing about how your job interview went written by the daily muse almost 5 years ago it's totally understandable that you want to know if you'll be hired, but trying to decipher the signs will only serve to drive you crazy. the guardian's image: the guardian business the guardian targets oil companies with 'unprecedented' climate-change campaign written by jason abbruzzese almost 5 years ago alan rusbridger, the editor in chief of the guardian, decided to tackle climate change with his last few months at the helm of the paper. gary ross dahl, the creator of the wildly popular 1970s fad the pet rock. image: marguerite dahl/associated press business man who created the pet rock dies at 78 written by the associated press almost 5 years ago gary ross dahl created the wildly popular 1970s fad the pet rock. he also wrote "advertising for dummies." a pair of giant slides are coming to london as part of carsten holler's 'decision' exhibiton. image: 2015 carsten höller. courtesy the artist and luma foundation entertainment two giant slides are coming to london written by tim chester almost 5 years ago wheeeeeeee...... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 80 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.