we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for august 2012 business digg is back with new app and site re-launch written by kate freeman over 7 years ago social bookmarking website digg launched the first version of its new site on tuesday after going back into startup mode to rebuild the site from the bottom up. v1, for version 1, was built on "fresh code" and the team says they plan to build it out ... entertainment tweets that will get you kicked off twitter written by technewsdaily over 7 years ago independent journalist guy adams tweeted his outrage about nbc coverage of the olympics and found his twitter account suspended. (update: twitter later reactivated his account and apologized.) but it wasn't his criticism that caused trouble, it was h... entertainment french retailer wants rights to anonymous logo written by calin van paris over 7 years ago anonymous, the loosely associated hacktivist group, is inherently anti-establishment. their unofficial logo -- a suit without a head -- is testament to this. now, in perfectly ironic fashion, french company early flicker is attempting to trademark bo... entertainment dropbox confirms security breach and two other stories you need to know written by stan schroeder over 7 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of 'first to know,' a series in which we keep you in the know on what's happening in the digital world. today, we're looking at three particularly interesting stories. dropbox confirms security breach dropbox has con... entertainment pepper-spraying policeman no longer works for uc davis written by stan schroeder over 7 years ago the police officer who doused students with pepper spray during occupy wall street protests at the university of california, davis, is no longer employed by the university. "consistent with privacy guidelines established in state law and university p... entertainment these are the cutest elephants you'll see all day [video] written by christine erickson over 7 years ago unless you're on a safari right now, this is probably the closest you'll get to seeing a baby elephant: watch a herd cross the road, and just when you think they've made it to safety, a baby elephant scampers across to catch up with his family. if th... entertainment amazon takes on netflix, hulu with instant video ipad app written by todd wasserman over 7 years ago a day after hulu plus landed on apple tv, another player in the streaming video market, amazon, has released a viewing app for the ipad. the free amazon instant video for ipad app hit the app store wednesday morning. the app lets you buy and stream v... entertainment samsung angers court by releasing excluded trial documents written by stan schroeder over 7 years ago disappointed with the court's decision to exclude evidence that apple borrowed from sony for its iphone design, samsung decided to release the documents to the public. "the judge’s exclusion of evidence on independent creation meant that even though ... entertainment anonymous declares war on t-shirt maker over logo copyright written by alex fitzpatrick over 7 years ago anonymous is launching an operation against a french apparel manufacturer in response to the company's attempt to trademark one of the hacktivist collective's most well-known logos: a man wearing a suit with a question mark for a head. "there arrogan... entertainment los angeles asks city employees to stop watching the olympics at work written by todd wasserman over 7 years ago the chief technology officer of the city of los angeles has asked employees to stop watching the olympics at work to avoid overloading the city's computer system. "we are experiencing a high volume of traffic due to people watching the olympics onlin... entertainment domain wars: the big money scramble for new web turf written by stephanie buck over 7 years ago if you operate a website, you're currently tied to one of 22 different top-level domains. we're talking .com, .org and the ever-elusive .biz. in june, the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers (icann) agreed to create new generic top-le... entertainment why top execs are starting to care about ux design written by brian solis over 7 years ago jesse james garrett, who is a pioneer in user experience, sits down with revolution to talk about why user experience deserves the attention of the c-suite. when we think of ux, we often associate it with the web, software and product development. bu... entertainment want to build your own iphone app? take this course written by anita li over 7 years ago want to build your own iphone app? a new online course called try ios lets you do just that. the course, which combines screencasts, in-browser code challenges and gamification principles, is part of code school, an online learning platform that teac... entertainment chat live with olympic gold medalists written by brian anthony hernandez over 7 years ago social tv platform connectv has brought back four olympic gold medal champions to weigh in on the 2012 london olympics. chatting live this month on connectv's watercooler, a 24-hour chat hub for tv and sports fans, are diver greg louganis (five medal... entertainment how to watch the olympics live via the bbc in the u.s. written by appadvice over 7 years ago in the u.s., nbc offers live coverage of the 2012 summer olympic games online and through its olympics live extra app. still, many have criticized this coverage, as the hashtag on twitter, #nbcfails proves. however, there is another way to stream the... entertainment turbovote wants to be the netflix of voter registration written by alex fitzpatrick over 7 years ago turbovote, an up-and-coming startup, wants to become the "netflix of voting" by revolutionizing voter registration and vote by mail via the internet and snail mail. the concept is simple: users fill out voter registration or vote by mail forms on the... entertainment game studio's recruitment video mocks zynga, brings the awesome written by chelsea stark over 7 years ago if you're tired of working for the "man" and making boring video games, we want you! that's the message of this brilliant recruiting video created by kixeye games. the san francisco-based online gaming company pokes fun at both old-school game compan... entertainment 'blade runner' makes olympics history with carbon-fiber legs written by zoe fox over 7 years ago oscar pistorius, a member of south africa's national track and field team, will make olympics history as the first athlete to compete with a prosthetic limb. the sprinter will compete in the 400-meter race saturday, using two high-performance carbon ... entertainment email takes up 28% of workers' time [report] written by todd wasserman over 7 years ago more than a quarter of the average worker's day is spent answering and reading emails, according to a new survey. mckinsey global institute and international data corp. found that email is the second-most time-consuming activity for workers, next to ... business marketing to women? keep these 3 facts in mind written by stephanie buck over 7 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. throughout history, women have strongly impacted buying habits -- they con... entertainment bieber gets bloody in latest music video written by brian anthony hernandez over 7 years ago thousands of people have expressed a desire to see justin bieber get punched in the face. today, they get their wish. a bloodied bieber flexes his acting chops in "as long as you love me," his music video that dropped wednesday morning. reservoir dog... entertainment denver post reporter says 'horny' olympics tweet was a mistake written by the daily dot over 7 years ago the denver post's john henderson wins the gold medal for tweeting out something pervy during the summer olympics. in a tweet that was on his account for more than 24 hours -- but has since been deleted -- henderson tweeted, "that was fun. first time ... entertainment london mayor's major zip line fail [video] written by annie colbert over 7 years ago boris johnson earned the gold medal for awkward dangling wednesday when the london mayor got stuck on a zip line in victoria park. johnson swayed helplessly, union jacks still in hand, as he asked photo-snapping onlookers to fetch a rope. see also: l... entertainment mobile ad spending to hit $6.4 billion this year [report] written by todd wasserman over 7 years ago led by strong growth in the u.s., mobile ad spending will rise about 62% this year to $6.4 billion, according to a new report. researcher emarketer estimates that the u.s. mobile ad industry will grow 96.6% in 2012 to $2.3 billion, marking the first ... entertainment this nyc metrocard doubles as puzzle game written by psfk over 7 years ago new york's metropolitan transit authority recently announced that it plans to sell advertising on the front of the metrocard. but can those ads actually be engaging... perhaps even fun? wayne congar and brendan bilko of creative and branding consulta... entertainment here's why twitter is tracking your election tweets written by alex fitzpatrick over 7 years ago twitter is getting in on the social analysis game. the micro-blog will publish a daily measurement of twitter sentiment surrounding the 2012 presidential election called the twitter political index, the company announced wednesday. the index works li... entertainment 3 game changers in online marketing written by graham cooke over 7 years ago graham cooke is the ceo of qubit, a technology company specializing in advanced website data collection, analysis, and optimization products. he was previously a senior product manager at google. follow him @thegrahamcooke. times are changing for web... tech outlook.com gets 1 million users in first 6 hours written by pete pachal over 7 years ago the team behind outlook.com revealed in a tweet that one million people signed up for the new email service in just six hours. microsoft unveiled its hotmail replacement tuesday at noon eastern, and by dinnertime it had cracked seven digits. that's a... entertainment replace baby pics in your facebook feed with bacon and cats written by amanda wills over 7 years ago are your facebook friends too snap-happy with their baby photos? use unbaby.me to replace all those images with "awesome stuff." unbaby.me is the brainchild (forgive the pun) of chris baker, peter marquis and yvonne cheng, a group of friends who were... entertainment apple v. samsung: why the future of ideas is at stake written by lance ulanoff over 7 years ago that distant sound you hear is apple and samsung slamming into each other in a san jose courtroom like two bighorn rams vying for dominance. apple says samsung stole its ideas; samsung says it had similar ideas first. for many, it’s a simple patent c... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 56 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.