we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for july 2014 attendees of the new york city pride march celebrate on june 29, 2014. image: mashable sarah fisher entertainment 25 empowering songs to celebrate pride 2015 written by connor finnegan over 5 years ago love is love. john cena celebrates his win during wrestlemania xxx at the mercedes-benz super dome in new orleans on sunday, april 6, 2014 image: jonathan bachman/associated press entertainment john cena is wwe 2k15's cover star written by chelsea stark over 5 years ago wrestling superstar john cena will appear on the upcoming cover of the wwe 2k game, to be released this october for previous and next-gen consoles. the news was announced on monday night raw on usa, though 2k game won't be releasing screenshots of th... image: mashable composite getty creative, danielvilleneuve world everybody calm down. ‘bubbling’ is not a thing in australia written by jenni ryall over 5 years ago there is a so-called trend that involves doing something pretty horrific to yourself that some say is a big thing in australia. we're not so sure. image: mashable composite, nina frazier, twitter entertainment twitter 'buy now' button appears for first time written by kurt wagner over 5 years ago a new "buy now" button appeared within tweets for the first time on monday, a look at what twitter may have in store for shoppable tweets. image: mashable composite. getty creative, shanina tech bing just became an excellent way to search twitter written by karissa bell over 5 years ago microsoft added a host of new tweet-discovery features to bing on monday, making it easier for users to find the tweets and accounts that interest them. concert goers take a selfie at the sweetlife festival in columbia, md., on may 10, 2014. image: owen sweeney/associated press entertainment 11% of the #nofilter pics on instagram are posers written by kurt wagner over 5 years ago your instagram friends may not be the photographers they're making themselves out to be. culture news bloopers prove live tv is delightfully painful written by dennis green over 5 years ago this just in! image: mashable composite. getty creative johavel business consumers are willing to pay more for sustainability written by matt petronzio over 5 years ago more than half of the world's consumers are willing to pay extra for goods from socially and environmentally responsible companies. image: rewalk robotics tech fda approves first robotic exoskeleton for paralyzed users written by adario strange over 5 years ago the fda has approved an exoskeleton designed to help paralyzed users walk and stand. image: mashable, christina ascani tech latest iphone 6 mockups could offer preview of the real thing written by christina warren over 5 years ago the latest iphone 6 mockups could offer the most realistic look yet at apple's upcoming smartphone. culture say 'meow' to the next crop of viral animal superstars written by max knoblauch over 5 years ago if grumpy cat is the michael jordan of celebrity animals, "lounging hedgehog" is the lebron james. algeria's goalkeeper rais mbolhi with yet another stop against germany. image: metin pala/anadolu agency/getty images entertainment world cup day 19: guts but no glory for the underdogs written by chris taylor over 5 years ago spare a thought for algeria. on monday, after playing germany, the country became the latest and perhaps the greatest team to go through the agonizing throes of "if only" and "we were so close." if only their super keeper raïs m’bolhi had saved one m... culture everything wrong with viral videos on youtube written by colin gorenstein over 5 years ago we're so done with 'frozen' covers. a dog looks at the petcube, a new device that allows pet owners entertain their animals remotely. image: petcube tech petcube lets you play with adoptable animals with your smartphone written by kari paul over 5 years ago the petcube will help those interested in adopting animals meet potential pets. samsung galaxy s5 mini image: samsung tech samsung's galaxy s5 mini: familiar look, weaker specs written by stan schroeder over 5 years ago samsung has announced the galaxy s5 mini, a smaller, 4.5-inch version of its flagship smartphone, the 5.1-inch galaxy s5. world lonely planet's top 10 european vacation destinations written by brian koerber over 5 years ago no tourists traps here. airbnb guests camille smithwick and james green from manchester, uk got a great deal on this rental, but there are lemons masquerading as great deals on airbnb. image: damian dovarganes/associated press tech 5 red flags to watch out for on airbnb written by sylvan lane over 5 years ago avoid your own airbnb horror story with these tips. image: synek tech this machine is like a keurig but for beer written by katie nelson over 5 years ago the synek promises fresh beer on tap in your kitchen. image: mashable composite, getty creative, georgemanga, jezperklauzen entertainment 25 literary classics to binge on this summer written by madeline raynor over 5 years ago this is the summer you're finally going to read anna karenina. and then watch the movie. united states' michael bradley, right, congratulates his teammate jermaine jones after qualifying for the next world cup round following their 1-0 loss to germany during the group g world cup soccer match between the usa and germany at the arena pernambuco in recife, brazil on june 26. image: julio cortez)/associated press entertainment world cup day 20: usa goes to battle written by alex magdaleno over 5 years ago after all this drama, we can't even. image: nintendo entertainment 8 things you should know about the new 'super smash bros.' written by chelsea stark over 5 years ago fans of nintendo's fighting franchise have been clamoring for information. well, here it is. image: mashable composite, getty creative carrie o' neill world facebook playing your feelings is legal but 'creepy,' say law experts written by lorenzo franceschi-bicchierai over 5 years ago facebook didn't technically break the law with its creepy study on user emotions. entertainment don’t buy into fauxsumerism written by stan schroeder over 5 years ago elliott morgan takes a hard look at the culture of “fauxsumerism,” the act of looking but never buying. tens of thousands of people fill in a street during a march at an annual protest in downtown hong kong tuesday, july 1, 2014. hong kong residents marched through the streets of the former british colony to push for greater democracy in a rally fueled by anger over beijing's recent warning that it holds the ultimate authority over the southern chinese financial center. image: vincent yu/associated press world tens of thousands in hong kong rally against beijing written by the associated press over 5 years ago hong kong residents marched tuesday through the streets of the former british colony to push for greater democracy in a rally fueled by anger at beijing. world the fight for civil rights: 15 images from america's past written by katie sola over 5 years ago the landmark piece of legislation outlawed discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, and ended segregation in public services. world nasa scrubs climate satellite launch written by stan schroeder over 5 years ago nasa’s orbiting carbon observatory-2 (oco-2) satellite, was scheduled to launch tuesday, but nasa had to scrub the launch due to equipment failure. culture 15 geometric gifs that will hypnotize you for hours written by andrea romano over 5 years ago be careful. you may find yourself staring at these gifs for hours at a time. u.s. michelle obama: there is no crack in white house pies written by ashley codianni over 5 years ago obama took a moment to praise retiring white house pastry chef bill yosses. then he joked about the pies being baked with crack. youtube stars rhett &amp; link onstage at vidcon 2014. image: gage skidmore entertainment being a youtuber is now a real business written by josh dickey over 5 years ago berserking teen girls may forever be a staple of vidcon, but the youtube stars they worship have done a lot of growing up. so has their industry. twitter goes public at the new york stock exchange on nov. 7, 2013. image: mashable/christina ascani business twitter replaces cfo amid executive shuffle written by seth fiegerman over 5 years ago twitter's executive shuffle continued tuesday with news that the company is replacing its chief financial officer. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 67 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.