we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for december 2008 entertainment facebook connect: the news is the news written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago the new york times has an extensive story about facebook connect and its imminent expansion to new services: digg, hulu, discovery, cbs and several others. however, looking back at the initial announcement of facebook connect, there's really nothing ... entertainment open web awards: vote and we'll shut up written by pete cashmore over 11 years ago tonight is the final night to thank your favorite websites by putting forth your vote in the open web awards, an open, international contest for the best websites and services. this voting round closes at midnight pst, november 30th (4 hours from now... entertainment how to: prepare for the sats without opening a book written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago brightstorm makes me feel old. the recently launched website to help teens with schoolwork is introducing sat prep courses via online video, and is offering 1,000 free courses to mashable readers (details below). back in my day, preparing for the sat... entertainment blogs - as big as you want them to be written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago the huffington post has raised 25 million dollars in funding from oak investment partners, claims allthingsd. according to allthingsd, this puts the valuation for the huffington post at 100 million dollars. it's a big valuation, and the 25 million do... entertainment mashable giveaway: win a youtube-ready hd kodak zi6 written by adam hirsch over 11 years ago help us help you. mashable would like to know more about you in order to better serve you. conducted through our advertising network, federated media, this survey will enable us to understand your needs better. as an immediate thank you, seven lucky ... entertainment britney spears is still the #1 name in search written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago a historic presidential election, an economic crisis, and even hannah montana were unable to capture the #1 spot in yahoo’s yearly rankings of popular search terms. instead, for the 7th time in 8 years, that title goes to britney spears. in the annou... entertainment tech events guide: mashable reader discounts written by tamar weinberg over 11 years ago here’s mashable’s latest round-up of upcoming web 2.0 events, parties, and conferences. for more upcoming event listings, check out mashable's events section. not on this list? contact us and let’s establish a media partnership. :) december 3, 2008, ... entertainment msn unsigned: an uninspiring attempt to woo indie musicians written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago the web has been huge for unsigned musicians. many artists have leveraged social networking tools and music discovery services to find record deals, while others have built large online fan bases. looking to capitalize on this trend, msn has added a ... entertainment funny because it’s true: the simpsons parody apple and steve jobs written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago while i do own several apple products, i’ve often joked about the cult-like nature of some of the company's fanatical enthusiasts. the simpsons captured this sentiment remarkably well in a parody of apple aired last night on fox. complete with “the m... entertainment 20+ top free windows mobile applications written by sean p. aune over 11 years ago iphone this, ipod touch that, blackberry and google android apps galore, but where is the windows mobile love? well, it is certainly not to be forgotten as the samsung i770, htc touch pro and samsung omnia are all being sold in stores this december, ... entertainment genius marketing: answer trivia on twitter, win free domain names written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago it seems like every day we see a new use for twitter, some of which can be rather mundane, others of which are actually smart business ideas. domain registrar namecheap is executing one of the latter, running a holiday trivia contest where their foll... entertainment browser head to head: chrome vs firefox vs flock written by christopher snyder over 11 years ago chris snyder is an online journalist specializing in new media. he writes about the tech biz for wired.com's epicenter blog. it’s a long road to a victory in the browser wars. just ask firefox. the open source browser which launched in 2004 just crac... entertainment pownce acquired by six apart, serves two weeks notice to users written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago pownce, the microblogging service often compared to twitter, has been acquired by six apart. according to the company blog, the service will be shutdown on december 15th, while the main pownce team – leah culver and mike malone – will join six apart.... entertainment 50 hot myspace music layouts written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago myspace is not known for good design. its garish profiles make designers nauseous. and yet, there are signs of hope: we've tracked down 50 myspace music layouts that are quite remarkable. stylish. stunningly well-conceived. beautiful, even. could it ... entertainment get fit and stay motivated with dailymile (invites) written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago this post is part of mashable's startup review series, which highlights great unsung startups. the series is made possible by sun startup essentials. company name dailymile 20-word description dailymile is a social training site for runners, triathle... entertainment 10 of the best adobe air applications written by sean p. aune over 11 years ago are you getting the most out of your adobe air installation? are you one of those people that installed it for one specific application and never explored what else was out there? well, it's time to get more out of air, and here are 10 apps that will... entertainment stanziq to launch twitter search for the whole web written by pete cashmore over 11 years ago during a breaking news event, we typically sit glued to a twitter search. and yet that method of tracking news in real time is fairly embryonic: it's the first step towards all the world's data becoming real time, and available via constantly updated... entertainment nokia n97 might be the perfect facebook phone written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago ...if you trust robert scoble, that is. he (damn him, we're jealous) had a chance to try the device out before even the gadget blogs, and he claims (gasp!) that the facebook experience on it is much better than on the iphone. his main points? n97 has... entertainment lessons to be learned from pownce's demise written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago twitter competitor pownce is no more. we followed the story yesterday: it was acquired by six apart, but not to develop the service further: simply to acquire the talented people that worked on pownce. i'd like to quickly revisit the story because i'... entertainment openid management comes to flock written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago myspace, flock and vidoop have developed openid for flock. i'll skip the talk about standards which you don't care about, cut to the chase and tell you what it does. now, when you browse with flock and open a web site that has openid support, flock w... entertainment google calendar gets ical support written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago ical, apple's calendar application, is probably one of the few mac-only apps known to non-mac users, as nearly all calendar/to-do applications can sync with it. if you wanted to sync your google calendar with ical, you kinda sorta could, but now the ... entertainment what every european startup should know: 10 keys to presenting your startup in the us written by ravit lichtenberg over 11 years ago ravit lichtenberg is the founder and chief strategist at ustrategy.com—a boutique consultancy with a mission to help startups succeed. she authors a blog at ravitlichtenberg.com. with the economic downturn grinding the startup wheels to a near-halt h... entertainment critter carols could be this year’s elf yourself written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago pet food company purina has launched “critter carols,” a site allowing you to create an animated holiday greeting card using images of your own cats or dogs. the animals will then meow or bark to the tune of holiday classics like “deck the halls” or ... entertainment proximic tries to solve the mobile search problem with “pattern proximity” written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago although google already enjoys a lead in search on mobile devices comparable to its dominance on the web, the unique characteristics of mobile – small screens/keyboards, gps, and cameras, just to name a few – leave open an opportunity for startups to... entertainment 100+ more ways to organize your life written by cameron chapman over 11 years ago last year we featured over 100 web applications to organize every aspect of your life, from your belongings to your social calendar, and more. since then, many have been significantly improved and lots of new apps have been released. from basic to do... entertainment how to: send top secret, highly classified email over the web written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago this post is part of mashable's startup review series, which highlights great unsung startups. the series is made possible by sun startup essentials. company name send 20-word description send is a free, easy-to-use email encryption service. ceo's pi... entertainment gradefund offers a different way to pay for college: good grades written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago paying for college is expensive. gradefund, a startup founded by a couple of brothers from harvard and princeton, has an interesting new approach to covering at least some of the costs: rewarding students monetarily for making good grades. gradefund ... entertainment digg bans company that blatantly sells diggs written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago digg has sent a cease and desist to the company behind usocial.net, the website pictured above. should we be surprised? the site is publicly advertising its service that lets you buy votes in mass quantity on digg, stumbleupon, and propeller. the soc... entertainment pandora versus last.fm: features, interface, applications compared written by matt singley over 11 years ago matt singley is a business process advisor that focuses on social media and ugc sociology. he authors a blog, singley's blog thoughts, about new (and sometimes old) technologies that can help organizations get ahead. each morning you get an obscenely... entertainment dear santa: please send ad clicks to pay the light bill written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago crazy christmas light displays aren’t exactly a new thing. out here in my part of texas, there are two “christmas-land” light displays that are about two or three miles of non-stop light displays. the new thing a couple years ago for the techno-savvy... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.