we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for march 2007 entertainment how to lose your users and kill your web 2.0 company: zoto written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago zoto, the photo-sharing service, will launch version 3.0 tomorrow, while telling its free users to upgrade to paid accounts or leave. the major upgrade has been in development since october and a live preview has been available since then. the new st... entertainment fliqz, freshbooks, switchplanet, youtube politics, localschools, kaneva, topix.net, netvibes coriander, itzbig, minglenow, dischorde, thegorb, more written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago the social networking news keeps tumbling into our inbox... filqz funded - it's late to the video market, with a name that no one can spell and an interface that only a mother could love. nonetheless, fliqz has raised $2.5m in series b funding from m... entertainment ebay, bebo make friends written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago i gotta say: i called this one (well, nearly). we've been talking extensively about the potential for a myspace store, and a potential deal between myspace and ebay that would presumably involve posting ebay widgets to myspace pages, similar to snoca... entertainment youtube blocked in aussie state written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago ted stevens and other us politicians may want to block myspace in schools and libraries, but blocking social sites isn't just a us phenomenon. in an amusing story that's buzzing around the australian newspapers today (and a few us outlets), the austr... entertainment esnips music widgets for myspace, blogs written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago esnips, the sprawling media-sharing platform, just announced the release of music players to post tracks to social networks - these come with a selection of nicely designed skins. they're promoting them as a way for independent artists to distribute ... entertainment myspace retail, yedda funded, quantcast funded, fixya funded, joost-jumptv, mig33, splashcast, wayki written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago myspace retail - another good reason to open a myspace store: the latest stats out of hitwise show that the uk fashion retailer topshop is driving a noticeable amount of traffic from myspace. maybe they should roll out some widgets, too. yedda funded... entertainment jaiku launches, looks like twitter to me written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago jaiku, a “social phonebook” that we previewed back in august 2006, has left beta and launched officially. the finnish startup provided a service for nokia s60 phones that did one thing very well - displaying your availability status ("presence") and ... entertainment entertonement - ringtones for myspace written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago this myspace economy is seemingly limitless. today it emerged that redpoint ventures associate fouad elnaggar is raising funds for entertonement, a company he founded while he was at ucla business school. entertonement is defining an interesting new ... entertainment facebook beats myspace and youtube among young adults written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago if you're aged 17-25, facebook is the place to be. 69% of us females in that age group say facebook is their favorite site, while 38% favor myspace and 22% like youtube best. college-aged guys also prefer facebook (56%), while youtube comes in second... business funding and an acquisition: lala, imooch, gaia, libsyn written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago three more social services have been funded and a familiar podcasting company has been acquired today. first up, cd-swapping site lala, which seemed a few years late to the game, has raised $5.7 million in series b funding from bain capital ventures ... entertainment zooppa launches a youtube for yourads written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago it may be another video-sharing site with an odd name, but zooppa's concept has merit at least. the site, which launched officially today, is a venue for user-generated advertising. the site stages contests sponsored by big name brands, and users upl... entertainment look out nws: reuters building a financial myspace written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago will reuters' next venture into social software receive a warmer reception than the opening of an office in second life, which some saw as buzzworthy but pointless? we'll find out soon, because reuters has stated its intention to build a financial so... entertainment youtube, bbc strike major deal written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago we said this was coming a few weeks ago (see youtube-bbc), but now the deal is sealed: the bbc is putting some of its content on youtube. but what's surprising is that the bbc has put some very high quality content out there: this isn't just archival... entertainment schtuff.com, folkd, uvouch, widget ads, midomo, warcraft armory, bebobay, zudeo, jajah, cellblock, mysnowtv, facebook privacy written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago schtuff.com - wiki maker pbwiki just announced that it has acquired schtuff.com, a wiki host. at first glance it looks like an inconsequential site, but pbwiki claims it has 1 million users. the acquisition was made using earnings, not the company's ... entertainment dada.net launches friend$ - should myspace share ad revenue? written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago dada.net, a social network that's seen tremendous growth over the last two months if the traffic graphs are to be believed (seems to resolve to dada mobile), just launched a service that pays users a share of the ad revenue. dada claims to have 7 mil... entertainment great games experiment - could this be the youtube of games? written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago greatgamesexperiment, which launches in public beta today, is a social network for games. the aim, says creator creator jeff tunnell, is to provide a hub of great games - just as content producers can upload their clips to youtube to get more eyeball... entertainment nearbie - social networking through time written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago i like nearbie. not because it's a particularly outstanding new social network - it's very similar to many social sites built around people, photos and events - but because it creates a new paradigm for thinking about social networks. launched offici... entertainment bebo ipo - possible? written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago you gotta love the way founders always say the company is staying independent - and even hoping for an eventual ipo - at a time when tech ipos are still rare and companies are getting acquired all over the place. like bebo ceo michael birch, who says... entertainment wtf is cisco doing? written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago i don't get it. the nytimes reports in saturday's edition on cisco's purchase of social networking provider fiveacross, and adds that they're buying the tattered remains of tribe.net, the san francisco-based social network that fell out of favor and ... entertainment myspace countdowns, corkboards, musical slide shows written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago other startups may betting on one great widget for success, but market leaders rockyou and slide are diversifying rapidly. today, for instance, rockyou notified users of the launch of three new features: an animated flash countdown timer, a corkboard... entertainment odeo $1m, myspace thief, youtube licensing, feedflash, let's film, stukt, ustream.tv written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago odeo $1m - podcasting startup odeo, which is up for sale, has reportedly received a $1 million offer. based on their relatively healthy stats, i think they should be able to get more than that. (via tsb) myspace thief - on the surface, a funny story ... entertainment izimi launches - impressive youtube rival that won't succeed written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago i'm not hot on downloadable apps. i don't care how great they are: a download just creates a barrier for the user, and it's hard to think of many downloads that have taken off in recent years - skype, stumbleupon (an extension, so not really a full a... entertainment dapper launches dapperfox - rss feed from any website written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago i've really been trying hard to get to grips with these mashup services we've been reviewing lately - teqlo, yahoo pipes et al, but they just seem so high level at the moment. dapper is among those that's slowly winning me over: it has proven useful ... entertainment socialurl launches - bebo, myspace, youtube and more in one place written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago we've seen many attempts to bring all your social networking accounts together, and every time i've tried to argue that there isn't much mainstream demand yet. that said, a super slick implementation that blows away the competition might just win me ... entertainment china's evil censorship continues: bans livejournal written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago i know we're supposed to be respectful of other cultures, but this is abhorrent to me: according to an email we got today, china has blocked livejournal to prevent bloggers from giving political commentary. we know this because the block coincides wi... entertainment patents 2.0, spongecell promote, mypunchbowl, lego mmo, netjaxer, yume written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago patents 2.0 - two "web 2.0" developments merged today focused on the patent system. first up, the u.s. patent and trademark office is piloting a voluntary scheme where companies accept comments and digg-like voting on their patent applications. it's ... entertainment fox shows coming to myspace profiles written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago we complained in the past that despite streaming 7 minutes of the simpsons on myspace, fox wasn't allowing users to embed the player on their own pages. likewise, fox has fenced off all its tv content, putting it at myspace.com/fox and forcing users ... entertainment myspace widget explosion: clearspring, mycitymate, pikipimp written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago there was no doubt that widgets would be big this year, but it's turning out to be an even larger trend than many of us expected. clearspring funding today, for instance, co-founder hooman radfar tells us (and red herring gives detail) that clearspri... entertainment mpire launches shopwave - visual shopping written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago mpire, a deal finding site that's generated a lot of buzz, will announce the launch tomorrow of mpire labs, a place to develop innovative new ideas similar to the ethos of the youtube testtube project (which itself is based on google labs). the first... entertainment youtube meets the dog show - worldwide fido written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago you just know the world has gone video mad when dogs get their own youtube. more specifically, worldwide fido, which launched this weekend, is an online video dog show in which owners (or dogs that can work computers) upload clips in various categori... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 10 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.