we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for october 2008 entertainment stumbleupon - now without a browser plugin written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago stumbleupon is a pretty unique site as far as social browsing sites go; no site with a similar concept (i.e. one click 'random' surfing through sites recommended by the community) has reached anywhere near its level of popularity. however, unlike - f... entertainment bezos and benioff invest in zocdoc written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago zocdoc, the service for finding doctors and making appointments online, is announcing two new high profile investors this morning: amazon founder and ceo jeff bezos, and marc benioff, founder and ceo of salesforce.com. the investments follow news las... entertainment oddcast's talking avatars have a new virtual home with avatarspace written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago oddcast is taking its talking avatars to the next logical place: virtual worlds. the company is launching a new product called avatarspace, a web application that enables custom avatars to talk to one another through voice or text. however, as oppose... entertainment imeem retools as myspace music looms written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago as the first website to offer free, full-track streaming music from all four major record labels, imeem has quietly been able to grow into one of the most trafficked social networking sites, with nearly 28 million (self-reported) visitors per month. ... entertainment microsoft searchperks to reward users for using live search written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago microsoft is working to "innovate" its search business model in one clearly visible way: perks. perks, perks, and more perks. this time it’s about searchperks. it was in late may when microsoft first gave users financial incentive to browse the comme... entertainment slide to distribute content from cbs, hulu, and others on facebook written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago after attracting nearly 20 million active users, what does the application formerly known as funwall on facebook do for an encore? add professional content from the likes of cbs, nbc, and warner bros, according to the wall street journal. the applica... entertainment government 2.0: where’s the urgency? written by mark drapeau over 11 years ago this is part of an ongoing series about government 2.0 written by dr. mark drapeau. to view previous posts in the series click here. recently i had the chance to attend an event called “government 2.0 and beyond… harnessing collective intelligence,” ... entertainment lushpad is a marketplace for exclusive and unique products (the startup review) written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago company name lushpad 20-word description lushpad is an online buy-and-sell marketplace for contemporary and mid-century modern furniture and secondary market fine art. ceo's pitch lushpad is a unique online home for lovers of mid-century modern furni... entertainment create a wow technology conference with word-of-mouth marketing written by jennifer leggio over 11 years ago this is a guest post written by jennifer leggio, who writes about enterprise trends around social media, including security, privacy and reputation issues, for zdnet. you’re a thought leader in your industry. you want to convene other thought leaders... entertainment what's a techie to do about the financial crisis? we ask cato institute (video) written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago as i mentioned late last night, a lot of us who do this technology punditry for a living are searching for answers on what exactly this mess on wall street and inside the beltway means for us in the tech sector. all americans are in the same boat, ha... entertainment dna on sale: familybuilder introduces low cost testing written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago new york-based network familybuilder has been growing quite handily over the past year and a half since it first launched as a facebook application. as of late june this year, it had grown to encompass users on myspace, bebo, hi5 and orkut, and had r... entertainment 7 desktop applications for friendfeed written by palin ningthoujam over 11 years ago after having done two friendfeed lists - the top 10 web applications for friendfeed and 7 essential greasemonkey scripts for friendfeed - we thought we'd do one more to round out the collection. here are 7 popular desktop applications for friendfeed ... entertainment google blog search deals technorati a knockout punch with new homepage written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago blog search engine technorati recently tried to re-invent itself as a memetracker of sorts, changing its homepage to reflect the most popular blog posts at a given point in time. today, google blog search – long just a blog-focused version of the com... entertainment mobatalk is like hd video twitter (screencast) written by doriano "paisano" carta over 11 years ago mobatalk is an experiment from michael baily that he calls "video twitter." here's the alpha testing page where you can see all of the video tweets being recorded right now. the cool thing is that you don't even have to sign up or join his service an... entertainment alana taylor versus heritage media written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago the buzz has more or less died down, at least in the pages of gawker, mediashift, techdirt and romenesko. but our very own alana taylor did a feature for pbs blog mediashift, a commentary really, on the lack of new media savvy amongst the students an... entertainment create geotagged slideshows of your outings with everytrail for iphone written by doriano "paisano" carta over 11 years ago everytrail is an iphone app that lets you record your journey with geotagged photos that are automatically added to a slideshow at their website. these trips can be hikes, runs, bike rides, walks or whatever you want. the app's interface is simple an... entertainment google prepares for ebooks with book search api written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago i've made no big secret of the fact that i've been eagerly awaiting the coming of the plasticlogic reader, the device shown at demofall 08 that's due out early next year. since we talked about the device a couple weeks ago on mashable conversations, ... entertainment microsoft's windows cloud smells funny written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago i'm not a big fan of reaching for conclusions and unjustified criticism when it comes to tech journalism, because i see it way too often. but although i have no solid data to confirm it, i can't help the feeling that steve ballmer's announcement of a... entertainment hi5 leverages user translations to launch in 10 new languages written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago hi5, a social network that already enjoys much of its success abroad, is continuing its international expansion, launching in 10 new languages today. similar to facebook, hi5 has been asking its users to translate the site into localized versions aro... entertainment exclusive: utterli releases desktop client (video) written by doriano "paisano" carta over 11 years ago watch out, twhirl. there's a new sheriff in town. utterli (formerly utterz) has just released an adobe air application that delivers their audio, video and text micro-blogging messages to your desktop. the app is small, but don't be fooled because it... entertainment youtube dips its toe into post-roll video advertising written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago youtube has been experimenting with various ways to make its voluminous business a very profitable one. it’s been months since the company first introduced graphical and text-based advertisements within the bottom third of video screens. and several ... entertainment 10 resources for voter registration written by sean p. aune over 11 years ago the 2008 general election is almost upon us, but there is still time in most parts of the country to get yourself registered to vote. luckily there are more and more online resources that can assist you with filling out your forms, provide you with l... entertainment pitfalls of a non-traditional ad network written by mark davis over 11 years ago mark davis is an nyc-based tech vc that blogs on technology and the venture world at get venture. i recently wrote a post about the ways in which ad networks can differentiate themselves. one of the three key considerations is type of inventory. with... entertainment obama iphone app provides platform for supporters written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago i don’t know how accurate it is to say senator barack obama is a mac to senator john mccain’s pc, but those convinced of this premise will either delight in or scorn the fact that the obama for america campaign has presented a free iphone and ipod to... entertainment dipity 2.0's social timeline opens to the public written by doriano "paisano" carta over 11 years ago dipity 2.0, which began private beta testing a few weeks ago, goes live today with their social timeline service. their goal is to provide more hooks into social networking sites such as flickr, youtube and twitter so you and your friends can keep up... entertainment myyearbook finds success in casual gaming written by leslie poston over 11 years ago myyearbook has been steadily climbing the charts as a social network for the younger set for the last couple of years. we've talked about the company on mashable a few times as it has grown, gotten funding and reached other milestones. the latest in ... entertainment liveworld helps global corporations be "social" (video) written by alana taylor over 11 years ago of all the companies and social platforms that showcased at web 2.0 expo ny, liveworld was definitely one of my favorites. why? because they were the only service that could explain that they understand how social media functioned and actually prove ... entertainment mashable monthly was a smashing success! written by karen hartline over 11 years ago mashable monthly was another huge success! it was great seeing everyone at roe lounge for an evening of making new friends and seeing old ones. we kept the drinks flowing and had yummy vegan cupcakes (yep--i said vegan) to celebrate pete cashmore hea... entertainment clivir's tutorial community lets you be the student and the teacher (the startup review) written by doriano "paisano" carta over 11 years ago company clivir 20-word description clivir is a free tutorial-based learning community where you can be both the teacher and the student. 100 word description come hither to clivir. clivir features tutorial style lessons that can be created by combini... entertainment muhammad saleem at startonomics (live) written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago today the startonomics workshop is underway, and mashable friend and occasional contributor muhammad saleem is presenting a session on social media and word of mouth marketing for startups: digg, delicious, twitter. word of mouth has never been sexie... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 14 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.