we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for november 2012 entertainment facebook: we're like a swimming pool written by chris taylor over 7 years ago remember when facebook was like chairs? well, no more. today, facebook is like a swimming pool. that's according to the social network itself, which just posted the above (rather unseasonal) picture in its timeline. "swimming pools are filled with pe... culture sad french kitty says boo to halloween [video] written by stephanie haberman over 7 years ago the star of the best cat video on the internet is back for a dose of ghoulish wisdom. henri's take on halloween is pretty standard for his take on life -- altogether, not impressed. "how do frightening ghouls have anything to do with a squash?," he a... u.s. hurricane sandy is 2012's no. 2 topic on facebook written by neha prakash over 7 years ago hurricane sandy has been dominating facebook chatter over the past week, making it the second most talked about event on the social network in 2012. facebook's "talk meter" rated sandy an 8.34, cnn reports. data also showed that men and women are equ... entertainment robot makes your salad and cleans the table written by amanda wills over 7 years ago why go out to a restaurant and order a $15 salad when this robot can make one right in your own kitchen? the ciros robot has free movement of both arms and hands, allowing it to chop vegetables and add dressing to your salad. but the home-service bot... world facebook profile pics could go on display at louvre, met museum [video] written by neha prakash over 7 years ago da vinci, monet, van gogh and picasso: they've created some of the world's most remarkable and memorable paintings, but do they really have anything on your facebook pictures? a group of londoners thinks its time for these artists to make some room o... culture you should fear a zombie apocalypse -- it's science written by amanda wills over 7 years ago should you be stocking up on brains to feed the undead that will rise on halloween night? well, not quite. but according to this highly scientific whiteboard drawing, a zombie apocalypse is technically possible. no, you won't see rotten corpse hands ... culture 10 clever cats that learned to open doors [videos] written by amy-mae elliott over 7 years ago cats are cunning. we assume our human inventions -- such as doors -- can foil them, but this is not always the case. we have found youtube video evidence of at least 10 kitties clever enough to open doors. see also: forbidden love: 10 youtube clips o... entertainment shoppers to retailers: focus on cyber monday [infographic] written by kate freeman over 7 years ago fancy parties, presents, home cooked meals -- there's a lot to look forward to as the holiday season approaches. but the american public has a message for retailers: not so fast with the christmas decor; focus on preparing for cyber monday instead. a... tech shadowme app lets you pretend to be someone else on twitter written by sam laird over 7 years ago ever wonder how your friends stay up on the coolest viral videos? ever wonder how your favorite reporters and pundits stay in the know? enter shadowme. entertainment pipsqueek: the first bluetooth smartphone for kids [video] written by kate freeman over 7 years ago do your little ones constantly ask to play with your cellphone? maybe it's time for them to have their own -- one made especially for kids. a company called yip yap developed a cellphone called pipsqueek for children, ages three and older. the cellph... culture human wikipedia remembers birth, death dates of any famous person in history written by anita li over 7 years ago quick -- who was born in 1926 and died in 1962? unless you're a superfan, chances are you wouldn't have known offhand that the answer is marilyn monroe. steve ellison, on the other hand, can answer in seconds. also known as the "human wikipedia," ell... u.s. police chief could lose job after spam filter fail written by sam laird over 7 years ago oakland's police chief could lose his job after he missed a slew of important emails after setting his spam filter to reject messages with terms including "occupy oakland" and "police brutality." police chief howard jordan had city staff put the emai... entertainment the knot uses facebook to salvage 2,300 weddings disrupted by hurricane sandy written by joann pan over 7 years ago hurricane sandy's path of destruction has put life on hold for millions of residents in states along the eastern seaboard. the knot estimates the weather disrupted wedding plans for more than 2,300 brides-to-be this week. the knot created a facebook ... world olympic badminton star invites facebook fans to his wedding [video] written by zoe fox over 7 years ago weddings are generally intimate gatherings of friends and family. but that's not the case for malaysian badminton player lee chong wei, who is offering his top 10 facebook fans invitations to his wedding. if you like chong wei's facebook page and com... entertainment new star wars film will be 'original story' [report] written by anita li over 7 years ago forget all the rumors. the upcoming star wars film won’t be based on any existing plot — it’ll be entirely original. tech iphone app teaches exotic dancers their rights [video] written by zoe fox over 7 years ago exotic dancers are some of the most exploited professionals by their managers -- and they're not equipped to advocate for their own rights. researchers from the sociology department at the university of leeds found that dancers at uk clubs don't know... tech waze now lets you know when your friends will arrive written by emily price over 7 years ago now when you head out to meet friends, you can see real-time etas for everyone you’re meeting as well as see who has already arrived and parked at your destination using waze. the social gps and live traffic app released a new version for ios and and... entertainment google launches voter information tool written by kenneth rosen over 7 years ago the presidential election is less than a week away and voters are searching for last-minute information. google and its politics & elections team have launched a tool to help voters get the important information they need ahead of november 6. the too... entertainment facebook testing new timeline format with single column of posts [updated] written by anita li over 7 years ago update: facebook spokeswoman meg sinclair told mashable , "we are running a small test of this new design globally. it's currently testing for a very small percentage of users. timeline will not look different until you scroll down past the recent ac... social good movember app turns your mustache growth into an animated gif [video] written by zoe fox over 7 years ago november is here, and that means it's time for men across the world to put down their razors to raise awareness and funds for men's health. that's right, it's movember. the annual month of mustaches has a new mobile twist this year -- an app, movembe... tech kim dotcom announces mega, a cloud-based online storage service written by stan schroeder over 7 years ago kim dotcom, best known as the founder of (now defunct) file sharing service megaupload, has announced a new project called mega. the service, previously referred to as "megabox," will enable users to store their data in the cloud, with support for en... world itunes accepts red cross donations for hurricane sandy victims written by todd wasserman over 7 years ago apple on wednesday made it a bit easier for concerned citizens to help victims of hurricane sandy by providing a link for donations on itunes via the american red cross. the option, on itunes' homepage, lets users donate in increments ranging from $5... business linkedin adds discovery tools for influencers network written by seth fiegerman over 7 years ago linkedin is rolling out a couple new tools to make it easier for users to find celebrities, business leaders and personalities to follow from the social network's roster of about 150 "thought leaders." last month, linkedin announced a new follow feat... world nbc to air and live stream sandy relief telethon written by lance ulanoff over 7 years ago hurricane sandy blew a wave of devastation across the east coast, with millions affected, and huge portions of new york and new jersey facing months of cleanup and rebuilding. now nbcuniversal is taking an active role in the relief effort with a spec... entertainment how to use your tablet as a second monitor written by matt petronzio over 7 years ago dual monitors are increasingly becoming the norm for today's hyper-connected workstations. whether you're trying to keep track of different browser tabs at work or you need more on-the-go workspace for your business trip, a tablet can act as a handy ... culture ghostbuster backflips over cop, gets arrested [video] written by christine erickson over 7 years ago note: the language in this video is nsfw. the day after halloween: when all the tricks gone wrong get uploaded to youtube. a daredevil, disguised as a member of ghostbusters, decided to backflip off the top of a police car. the cops immediately take ... business new tool visualizes facebook analytics in real time written by todd wasserman over 7 years ago pagelever, which provides analytics tools for brands with facebook pages, has introduced a new tool that lets you visualize user engagement on those pages in real time. such data is updated by facebook every 15 minutes or so, but only as raw data. pa... business apple added 12,400 full-time employees in the past year written by seth fiegerman over 7 years ago apple filed its annual 10-k report with the sec for the 2012 fiscal year on wednesday, which shows just how much the company has grown in the 12 months ending sept. 29. for starters, apple now has 72,800 full-time employees, up from 60,400 the year b... tech this handset turns your iphone into a cb radio — over and out! written by stephanie buck over 7 years ago honk honk! better flick on your turn signal and pull over for this sweet gadget. the cb radio iphone handset from thinkgeek is a great gift idea for the fun-loving prankster on your list. the handset plugs in to any smartphone with a 3.5 mm headphone... entertainment google+ hangouts rolls out new features written by samantha murphy kelly over 7 years ago google announced on thursday it is rolling out new features and updates to its video chat platform google+ hangouts, such as colorful notifications and a sidebar which consolidates key function tools. google developer amit fulay posted a note to his ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 56 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.