we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for october 2014 tracy morgan at siriusxm studios on may 5, 2014 in new york city. image: slaven vlasic entertainment tracy morgan: 'can't believe wal-mart is blaming me' written by josh dickey over 5 years ago my friends and i were doing nothing wrong, he said. the emir of bukhara, alim khan (1880-1944), poses solemnly for his portrait, taken in 1911 shortly after his accession. as ruler of an autonomous city-state in islamic central asia, the emir presided over the internal affairs of his emirate as absolute monarch, although since the mid-1800s bukhara had been a vassal state of the russian empire. with the establishment of soviet power in bukhara in 1920, the emir fled to afghanistan where he died in 1944. image: prokudin-gorskii / library of congress world 1907-1915: russia before the revolution, in color written by chris wild over 5 years ago sergey prokudin-gorsky (1863–1944) became photographically renowned in russia for a color portrait of leo tolstoy. it was this fame that, in 1909, brought him to the attention of tsar nicholas ii. image: matchstick tech mozilla fans are getting a firefox os streaming media stick written by adario strange over 5 years ago the chromecast streaming media stick just got a healthy bit of competition from a firefox os-powered device called matchstick. messages supporting occupy central sent in to a hong kong art collective's website are turned into a stream real-time, projected graffiti. image: add oil machine for oclp world messages supporting hong kong protesters stream from web to the streets written by adario strange over 5 years ago a group of artists have come up with a unique way to let the protesters in hong kong know that they have supporters from around the planet. image: hero images/getty creative business meet 15 of advertising's rising stars written by lauren drell over 5 years ago meet the young guns who are making an impression on their agency higher-ups. students protest against a jefferson county school board proposal to emphasize patriotism and downplay civil unrest in the teaching of u.s. history, in front of their school, jefferson high, in the denver suburb of edgewater, monday, sept. 29, 2014. image: brennan linsley/associated press world why denver public school students are protesting for ap history written by patrick kulp over 5 years ago hundreds of students and teachers at denver-area public schools are skipping classes to protest a school board proposal that could change the way ap u.s. history is taught in the district as well as board-mandated tweaks to teachers' pay. two denver ... kyle maclachlan at the disney abc television group all star party. image: matt sayles/associated press entertainment 'marvel's agents of s.h.i.e.l.d': flowers for agent cooper written by josh dickey over 5 years ago maclachlan -- who is presumably skye's father -- shows up at the very end of episode 2, "heavy is the head," and he is definitely weird. guy stares at boobs on hidden nestl&atilde;&copy; bra cam culture gotcha: hidden bra cam does its job, catches people staring at boobs written by eitan levine over 5 years ago smile, gawkers, you're on hidden-nestlé-boobie camera! nestlé is taking an unusual, yet on-topic approach to raising awareness for its #checkyourselfie breast cancer awareness campaign with this stunt. the jury is still out on whether this is an effe... culture rescuers spend hours saving a dog caked in tar written by brian koerber over 5 years ago that's one lucky pup. image: flickr, nasa goddard space flight center culture space time-lapse dazzles with nature's light shows written by brian koerber over 5 years ago sorry, no aliens. image: trae patton/nbc entertainment 'the voice' recap: a budding coachmance and a week of fierce competition written by lindsay rothfeld over 5 years ago this week finds the coaches more wary of turning their chairs too early, as they hope to diversify their teams. image: flickr, trey ratcliff entertainment 8 vines that show off upload and editing features written by annie park over 5 years ago our favorites from mashable's latest vine challenge. pro-russian rebels hold their guns as they patrol lenin square in donetsk, eastern ukraine, on august 28, 2014. image: mstislav chernov/associated press world ‘we will execute you’: the survival of one man held by pro-russian rebels in ukraine written by christopher miller over 5 years ago donetsk, ukraine – at a corner table inside donetsk’s ramada hotel, dmytro potekhin takes a long sip from a glass of jack daniels before huffing down a bowl of hot carbonara. his hair is unkempt and his face unshaven. dark bags encircle his eyes. he ... protestors fill connaught road on monday, october 1, 2014. image: amanda mustard/mashable world hong kong's umbrella revolution: a protest like no other written by jenni ryall over 5 years ago this is a protest like no other. it is one of calm, respect and politeness. there are no signs of hostility. a police car drives past the entrance to the texas health presbyterian hospital in dallas, tuesday, sept. 30, 2014. image: ap photo/lm otero/associated press world ebola case stokes concerns for liberians in texas written by the associated press over 5 years ago the first case of ebola diagnosed in the u.s. has been confirmed in a man who recently traveled from liberia to dallas, sending chills through the area's west african community. video: youtube, pogo culture this 'hermione remix' will cast a spell on you written by colin gorenstein over 5 years ago a song to conclude the month of emma watson. culture 13 painfully embarrassing mistakes made at work written by laura vitto over 5 years ago it's one thing to jam the copier your second day on the job. but falling asleep at your desk? that's just unforgivable. at work, when every potential mistake could mean an unwanted 9:00 a.m. meeting with human resources, it can be tough to laugh off ... image: mashable composite. getty creative business local search popularity means small businesses still need seo written by businessnewsdaily over 5 years ago 50% of people who make local searches on a smartphone visit a store within a day. image: christina ascani/mashable tech these 8 popular games totally kill your phone battery written by kyli singh over 5 years ago from angry birds to candy crush saga, many of the games we love are quietly eating up our batteries. here are eight popular games that will take a huge toll on your smartphone's battery. image: mashable composite palau83/getty creative world humanity has more mothers than fathers, dna reveals written by livescience over 5 years ago new methods of dna testing show that throughout history, far more women than men have had children. image: imgur, rocky_whore culture 36 elaborate halloween costumes to make everyone jealous written by brian koerber over 5 years ago so you think your halloween costume is good? image: mashable composite. getty creative. tech the 10 tech terms you're mixing up written by the daily muse over 5 years ago do you ever find yourself trying to hide your confusion at work meetings while the tech team is tossing around terms like ui and ux? or maybe you’re all about downloading the latest apps, but you’re not totally sure what “app” actually means. well, i... image: mashable composite tech 7 ways to preserve your battery life on ios 8 written by samantha murphy kelly over 5 years ago quick and easy ways to make your iphone and ipad batteries last longer with the new operating system. image: apple tech jony ive talks apple watch, design process in october vogue written by christina warren over 5 years ago jony ive shares design details of the apple watch in the october issue of vogue. image: microsoft tech microsoft adds to office line with sway storytelling app written by karissa bell over 5 years ago microsoft rolled out a preview version of sway, its new storytelling app, which will be added to the microsoft office family. image: mashable composite. apple tech apple to add gold to ipad lineup, report says written by jason abbruzzese over 5 years ago apple's love affair with gold is about to extend to the ipad. world the 25 most romantic cities in the world written by kyli singh over 5 years ago whether you're searching for "the one" or just looking for a romantic getaway, you'll want to consider exploring one of these destinations to get the love flowing. here are the 25 most romantic cities in the world. tech how developers should adapt to apple watch written by mashable video over 5 years ago is the reward worth the wrist? here's how developers should be adapting to apple watch. hong kong on wednesday image: amanda mustard/mashable world hong kong protesters: we'll occupy buildings if demands not met written by jenni ryall over 5 years ago scholarism, the student group that initiated the hong kong protests, said it will escalate the demonstration if demands are not met. image: flickr, samchills business new york times to cut 100 jobs, shuts down nyt opinion app written by seth fiegerman over 5 years ago it's déjà vu all over again. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 74 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.