we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for december 2006 entertainment stickam and warner bros. records hosting "broadcast event" written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago when youtube commercialized, it was through a series of "brand channels" like the paris hilton channel, diddytv and cbs. for the remixing sites, meanwhile (jumpcut, eyespot, yourspins), it's all about getting users to remix new music and movies. the ... entertainment myspace china: what we know written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago we've known for many months now that myspace china is set to launch in 2007. in fact, with all the focus on the chinese roll-out, the launch of myspace japan came as a complete surprise. now the focus is back on the chinese site, with the wsj reporti... entertainment breaking: myspace debuts google search written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago we knew this was coming - last week i spotted the google logo appearing occasionally next to myspace search results, while the results themselves were still the old overture links. today, i spotted that the long awaited $900 million search deal has g... entertainment zoodango launches: social networking at starbucks?! written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago seattle-based zoodango, which launches today, is a social networking site that helps you to connect with other professionals through local events and meetings at venues like starbucks. the setup is your standard friendster-style network: you can crea... entertainment rupture - napster founder's world of warcraft social network written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago not content with building some very successful myspace music players through his company snocap, napster founder shawn fanning is about to launch another new project in the social networking space: rupture is a social site for online gamers that has ... entertainment meez redesigns, goes interactive written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago meez, a service for creating 3d avatars and posting them to social networks, blogs and more, is announcing a set of changes today. first up, they've completely redesigned the site to appeal more to their core demographic of 13-22 year-olds - that mea... entertainment bigulo launches hot or not for bebo written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago long before wink debuted their bebo, linkedin and myspace search engine, irish site bigulo was offering a bebo search tool for those too lazy to type "site:bebo.com" into google. actually, that's unfair, since bigulo adds a lot of value: you can sear... entertainment demand media launches deals.com - digg for deals written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago deals.com, a social site created by demand media, has launched in beta (in fact, the site went live on thanksgiving, but they've kept it on the down low while they build up activity on the site). deals.com is, quite simply, digg for deals - it lets u... entertainment cnet launches atlarge - social site for airport wi-fi written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago atlarge, a new cnet site that launched this week, might not look like much. the idea, however, is a good one: to help you stay connected at the airport. if you're traveling and need to find wifi hotspots, the availability of a 3g/gprs signal or a pla... entertainment zingfu growth explodes into myspace comments written by kelvin over 13 years ago pete's note: i got seriously ill over the weekend, hence the lack of posts. i seem to be on the mend, so look out for some new stuff on wednesday. zingfu was reviewed here on mashable in late august; about the time they rolled out changes to allow qu... entertainment protopage v3 launches written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago protopage, one of the most popular online startpages along with netvibes and pageflakes, is announcing version 3 to its users today. they're claiming 30 new features, including instant collaboration (share your pages with others), color coded tabs an... entertainment iran bans youtube written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago perhaps this broke while i was off sick, but i'm surprised (or perhaps unsurprised) to learn today that iran has blocked youtube - anyone accessing the site from that country sees an explanation that "on the basis of the islamic republic of iran laws... entertainment oz to make myspace, youtube, bebo mobile written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago social networks are moving into the mobile space so fast that it's hard to keep up. montreal-based wireless messaging company oz is announcing today that they're taking a range of social networks mobile - flickr, bebo, myspace, youtube, blogger and o... entertainment zwinky launches written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago if you've been following the myspace layouts trend, you might already be familiar with zwinky, a brand that seems to appear frequently on those sites. yesterday, zwinky launched officially and claimed more than 2 million unique users - not bad going ... entertainment myspace mobile, sex offenders, quicktime worm written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago there are so many myspace stories today that i thought i'd tackle them all at once. first up, myspace will soon be available on cingular phones. the news got out yesterday, with the press following up today. while the deal with helio was a good first... entertainment aim share launches - bookmarking meets im written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago aol launched a neat service for aim users today: aim share allows you to share a url or message with all your buddies at once by entering it on the site. the message appears in the buddy updates section of their im client (presumably they need to be ... entertainment users unhappy as warped tour shuts down written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago warped tour, a social network for the music and extreme sports festival of the same name, is set for imminent shutdown, and the users aren't happy. a user discovered the shutdown plans earlier this week, and started a lengthy thread where users compl... entertainment bskyb creating youtube rival using youtube's technology written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago google is partnering with british broadcaster bskyb, licensing youtube's video-sharing tools, as well as other google technology like email and internet telephony, according to reports. the youtube technology will be added to bskyb's recently launche... entertainment metacafe acquisition: $200 million is a steal written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago ynet news has the exclusive that tel aviv-based video sharing site metacafe may be sold for $200 million. there were a few rumors involving yahoo, but now ynet says talks with an unnamed company are in the "advanced stages". the site was founded in j... entertainment youtube: another redesign, quick capture, verizon is live written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago youtube dropped in yet another redesign last night - check out the new tabs, category pages, organizational structure, a contests section, multiple pages of comments, comment highlighting for the submitter and many more tweaks, including yet another ... entertainment uplayme - social music matching written by kristen nicole over 13 years ago social music service uplayme was among the presenters at this week's ny tech meetup. mashable contributor kristen nicole caught up with founder david fishman in an interview. when warner's senior vp dan pelson and long-time business partner bo peabod... entertainment social news blitz: zoodango, searchles, pluggd, wallop, innertee, yourminis and more written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago it's been a busy day for social networking news, but unfortunately mashable hq is totally offline due to a less-than-reliable isp. the stories i would have covered... myspace predator law proposed: you can expect to see this in the newspapers tomorro... entertainment schoolfizz launches - digg meets facebook written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago columbus, ohio-based schoolfizz, which launched today, is easily summarized - it's facebook plus digg. users create profile pages with a picture, and entering your school means that you can share stories with the whole world or just your fellow stude... entertainment top 10 myspace add-on sites of 2006 written by kelvin over 13 years ago kelvin beecroft is the head of mashable labs, which conducts unique research into social networks, particularly widgets and other social networking add-ons. you can request research through the consulting form. as the end of 2006 approaches, it’s cle... entertainment youtube and coca-cola launch holiday wishcast written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago you know you're on a roll when you strike up a partnership with one of the world's biggest brands. today, youtube and coca cola are launching holiday wishcast, a promotion that lets users send video greetings to their friends and family, and also fea... entertainment urbis - a myspace for wordsmiths written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago another presenter at this week's nytech meetup (along with uplayme): urbis is a new site that aims to combine social networking and creative writing like poetry and non-fiction. later, they'll add art, music and film. the site was founded by steve sp... entertainment the social networking awards 2006 - call for sponsors and suggestions written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago update (december 18th): the nominations for the social networking awards are now open - click here to visit the nominations page. just a quick intro to say that mashable is hosting a web-based "social networking awards" competition over the coming we... entertainment takkle relaunches for the youtube crowd written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago takkle is one my favorite social networks for sport, having appeared on the radar back in august following its $1.12 million series a funding round from greycroft partners (this was finally announced at the end of november). when sid reviewed it, tak... entertainment videocodezone: yours for $800,000 written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago a number of social networking services are up for sale at the moment. two in particular - videocodezone and mojungle, are myspace add-ons that have been covered extensively on mashable. i think both of these startups are wise to get out of the market... entertainment dare junkies: jackass plus youtube written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago dare junkies is another new video sharing site that launches in limited beta on tuesday and "full beta" on january 1st. to give them their due, however, they're trying to put a unique spin on the concept: users submit challenges and dares along the l... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.