we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for february 2010 entertainment drew barrymore announces engagement on facebook (or not?) [updated] written by stan schroeder about 10 years ago update: according to other sources, drew barrymore is not engaged. the facebook status update still seems to be real, but as we've said, it doesn't always reflect the true state of affairs. -- well, why not? social networks such as facebook and twitt... entertainment steve jobs is not happy with google, adobe written by stan schroeder about 10 years ago what a time we're living in. you can't even make fun of your competitors at your own company meeting without your words leaking out to the internet. apparently, this has happened to steve jobs, who lashed out at google and adobe at apple's town hall ... entertainment social networks are becoming a security risk [survey] written by stan schroeder about 10 years ago according to a report by sophos, malware and spam are on the rise on social networks such as twitter, myspace, facebook and linkedin. in the last year, 57% of users report they have been spammed via social networking sites, an increase of 70.6% compa... entertainment microsoft's tag links the physical world to the internet written by stan schroeder about 10 years ago paper publications have a problem: they want to link to the internet, but in order to reach the destination, the reader must type the link into his browser manually, which is slow and awkward. microsoft now offers a solution, called tag. it's essenti... entertainment turbotax to help you through tax season with major twitter effort written by adam ostrow about 10 years ago turbotax is launching a major twitter initiative today that looks to help customers of its popular online tax software get through the process of paying taxes. the company has enlisted 14 people to answer both tax and software questions through the @... entertainment netflix gets a huge influx of indie and foreign films written by samuel axon about 10 years ago netflix just formally announced that it has signed non-exclusive deals to stream online content from independent and foreign film companies like the criterion collection, gravitas ventures, kino lorber, music box films, oscilloscope laboratories and ... entertainment taylor swift’s grammy performance inspired by viral cover version [video] written by brenna ehrlich about 10 years ago musician and producer butch walker scored the awesome opportunity to perform live at the grammys with taylor swift last night -- all because of a viral video that he posted to youtube months ago. back in november, walker -- formerly of rock band marv... entertainment target's facebook campaign combines the super bowl and valentine's day written by christina warren about 10 years ago it's the first day of february and that means two things: valentine's day is just two weeks away and the super bowl is next sunday! retail store target has decided to embrace both of these upcoming events, while also giving money to charity, with its... entertainment obama answers questions live on youtube today written by samuel axon about 10 years ago united states president barack obama will answer user-submitted questions on youtube's citizentube channel this afternoon at 1:45 p.m. est. youtube is so excited about this webcast that it's advertising it with a strip at the top of the site regardle... entertainment 5 essential tools for the mobile journalist written by greg ferenstein about 10 years ago the multi-function playground that is the smartphone has shrunk the capabilities of a van-sized 1970’s news team into the pocket of a single reporter. today, front-page news can stream from any individual with a cell phone camera and a twitter accoun... entertainment mashable's weekly guide to social media & digital events written by tamar weinberg about 10 years ago it's a brand new week, which means it's time for mashable’s guide to upcoming social media and web events, parties, and conferences. for more upcoming event listings, check out mashable's events section. is your event not on this list? contact us at ... entertainment pepsi and focus on the family most buzzed-about super bowl advertisers written by jennifer van grove about 10 years ago while the saints and the colts get ready to flex their football muscle on the field, big brands are already battling for primetime social media attention. as it stands now, pepsi and focus on the family are the most buzzed-about super bowl advertiser... entertainment iphone app that saved life in haiti sees sales surge written by barb dybwad about 10 years ago we wrote recently about how dan woolley used a medical app on his iphone to help save his life after being trapped in the rubble after the haiti earthquake. that program, the american heart association's pocket first aid & cpr app , saw its sales sky... entertainment amazing, extraordinary, tremendous: the 3-minute ipad keynote [video] written by jennifer van grove about 10 years ago steve jobs's stage presence and speech delivery are second to none. so what's his secret? adjectives! the folks at neilcurtis.com decided to condense the ipad keynote into a much more digestible format while keeping the most important sound bites int... entertainment how web video seo is finally coming of age written by shane snow about 10 years ago though publishing videos on the web has been child's play for years now, the process of getting them to rank high in search remains enigmatic at best, frustrating at worst. the pace of video publication is accelerating faster than ever, and though vi... entertainment free music monday: 10 free downloads for your ears written by barb dybwad about 10 years ago in this week's free music monday we'll be offering you 10 free downloadable tracks or albums for your eclectic listening pleasure. if you haven't been with us for free music monday before, we're giving you some auditory enjoyment in honor of the #mus... entertainment why apple could have etched "ipad" into some rocks and sold millions written by ben parr about 10 years ago the social analyst is a weekly column by mashable co-editor ben parr, where he digs into social media trends and how they are affecting companies in the space. it's been five days since apple introduced the ipad to the world, and everybody is still r... entertainment mom gets tat in exchange for daughter's justin bieber tickets [video] written by brenna ehrlich about 10 years ago oh, man, we haven't seen a video of a poorly thought-out tattoo since this guy was shilling for ray-ban (although there's talk that the ink was fake). thank heavens for this lady, who got a tat of a dj's face on her lower back so that her daughter co... entertainment mashable's social media week san francisco closing party: this friday written by ben parr about 10 years ago mashable and social media club are proud to present the social media week san francisco closing party! join us on february 5th as we support social media for social good and raise money (and our glasses) for netsquared to expand its support of non-pr... entertainment mashable is hiring experienced journalists written by sharon feder about 10 years ago interested in joining mashable's editorial team? mashable is expanding and we have a number of full- and part-time opportunities for professional journalists. read on to learn more about the positions and how to apply. senior editor location: west co... entertainment grammy ratings surge; did social media play a role? written by christina warren about 10 years ago update: we've added some social media statistics related to the grammys at the end of this post. the 52nd annual grammy awards aired last night and the ratings were up. big time. maybe it was stephen colbert's ipad presentation, maybe it was taylor s... entertainment browser usage stats: chrome grows while ie and firefox shrink written by samuel axon about 10 years ago an analytics company called net applications has determined that google's chrome web browser is stealing market share from both microsoft internet explorer and mozilla firefox. in january, chrome grew by 0.57% to 5.20% of the browser market. meanwhil... entertainment ap and yahoo ink content deal, leave google in limbo written by ben parr about 10 years ago yahoo and the associated press have announced that they have inked a deal to keep the ap's content appearing on yahoo's properties. the financial terms of the deal were not disclosed. we've known for a while that the non-profit associated press has b... entertainment zune phone and windows 7 mobile to debut this month [rumor] written by barb dybwad about 10 years ago it's still officially rumor at this point, but spanish-language blog muycomputer reports that it's confirmed with nvidia that the company will be on hand at this months' mobile world congress in barcelona with microsoft to announce the new zune phone... entertainment google chrome gets greasemonkey support written by christina warren about 10 years ago since debuting in december, more than 2,000 extensions have been created for google chrome. now, chrome users have access to about 40,000 more, thanks to support for greasemonkey scripts in chrome 4.0 for windows and the chrome developer builds for m... entertainment free reality tv show debuts on your playstation 3 this month written by barb dybwad about 10 years ago sony computer entertainment america is making good on its promise to expand original content offerings on its playstation network distribution service. it will be bringing an original reality television series, the tester, to playstation 3 and playst... entertainment oscar nominations to be broadcast live to the web on tuesday written by jennifer van grove about 10 years ago as awards season nears its climatic finale with the oscars in march, the academy is doing something it's never done before: broadcasting the oscar nominee announcements live to the web. it may not seem like a big deal, but this is oscar we're talking... entertainment google to launch app store for google apps [report] written by ben parr about 10 years ago app stores are all the rage these days, it seems. now the wall street journal is reporting that google's about to launch a new one for businesses, focused around creating software for google apps. according to the report, google's plan is to sell sof... entertainment gtalk crushes aim and facebook chat in reader vote written by ben parr about 10 years ago last week, we asked you to vote on which instant messaging (im) tool was best: aim, gtalk or fbchat. aol instant messenger has been around since 1997, giving it the edge in users and brand recognition. however, while google talk and facebook chat mad... entertainment ipad hardware reveals potential slot for camera written by ben parr about 10 years ago perhaps we haven't learned everything about the ipad just yet. could an ipad with a camera be in the near future? mission repair, a company that fixes broken apple products, apparently got their hands on some ipad parts. their pictures showed off the... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 19 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.