we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for february 2007 entertainment super bowl ads from meebo, meez, multiply, plaxo, technorati and rockyou written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago we've already covered youtube's super bowl event, and the fact that ifilm will also be posting the ads after the big game. but now a number of startups - meebo, meez, multiply, plaxo, technorati and rockyou have launched their own "super bowl ads" an... entertainment zoodango, tagging, attendio, digger-cnet, ziggs, vizu, blerts, vringo, jaman, jaxtr written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago zoodango - we covered the professional social network zoodango back when it was in preview mode: it launches officially today. tagging popular? tagging is taking off, it seems - pew says that "28% of internet users have tagged or categorized content ... entertainment lisa nova - youtube to madtv written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago lisanova, one of the top youtubers, has followed barats and bereta and brookers by scoring a tv contract: she's moving to the sketch show madtv. lisanova, aka lisa donovan, will start on the show on saturday, february 17th. donovan moved to la to sta... entertainment online photo editing is now a picnik written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago the online photo editors just keep getting better and better. we covered fauxto, picture2life, snipshot, preloadr and more in the past, but i think picnik may be one of the best. picnik is simpler and more intuitive than most desktop apps, and thanks... entertainment myspace notifier sends profile updates written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago myspace notifier, which is yet to launch, is a desktop application for myspace users who want to stay updated without visiting the site repeatedly. the windows application sits in your system tray and alerts you to new messages, new friend requests, ... entertainment fannation acquired by sports illustrated written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago the sports business journal reported in december that sports illustrated/time inc had a “deal in principle” to get a 40% stake in fannation for $25 million - making the sports social network worth a stunning $60 million. today, sports illustrated is ... entertainment orkut integrates youtube written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago a mashable reader spotted that google has added a video section to orkut today, giving users the ability to add videos from youtube and google video straight into their profiles without copying and pasting code - instead, you just enter the url of th... entertainment payperpost video ads written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago payperpost, the service that pays bloggers to write about certain products, is rolling out a series of new features on monday. most interesting: they're going to pay video bloggers for creating videos about certain products. in short: paid product pl... entertainment widgipedia, dimdim, superpages, digg payola, turboflix, iqzone, traineo, startup school, boorah, getabuz, reinvigorate written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago widgipedia launches - widgipedia, the widget gallery we wrote about at the start of the month, has launched officially today. it overlaps with widgetbox, musestorm, spring widgets and many more. digg payola, no more top diggers - two digg stories are... entertainment mydesignin launches social home design written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago mydesignin, which is launching at demo, is a social service for those remodeling their homes - a niche that hasn't really been targeted by the 2.0 crowd yet. it's based around social bookmarking: find beds, baths, sinks and more as you browse around ... entertainment myspace hacker, meosphere, yahoo sports, linkedcampus, youtube-viacom, stikkit api, ebeebo, more written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago i've been off sick (again!), but here are some of the stories that are filling up the mashable inbox today... myspace hacker - samy kamkar, aged 19 at the time, has been sentenced to three years of probation and given 90 days of community service by ... entertainment blogwerx sentinel hunts down sploggers written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago blogwerx sentinel is an application i've been following for at least six months - it finally debuted at demo this week. perhaps due to the demo rush, the site seems incomplete - the interface doesn't work yet, and all you can really do is sign up. no... entertainment bear vs colt myspace widget written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago the widget world hasn't escaped the super bowl frenzy, it seems: marketing company mediasauce has created a flash widget and viral video campaign called bear vs colt, which seems to be an experiment into how powerful social media marketing can be. th... entertainment youtube launches valentines day promo written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago predictably, perhaps, youtube is launching a valentine's day promotion that follows the same pattern as the coke-youtube ecards at christmas, and similar holiday promos by stupidvideos and motionbox. the sponsor this time around is procter & gamble's... entertainment youtube japan, gamegum, diarised, mytripyourmoney, wehanghere written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago youtube japan - as promised, chad hurley and steve chen are headed to japan to talk with jasrac on tuesday regarding the japanese media group's copyright complaints. jasrac originally ordered that 30,000 videos be pulled from the site, but they conti... entertainment webwag launches widget on demand written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago webwag, the web-based startpage, is announcing a new feature on monday: the widget on demand (wod) allows you to create a module for your startpage from any site, regardless of whether the site provides an rss feed. you just enter the url of the site... entertainment celebrity videos at hollywoodupclose written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago purevideo networks, owner of stupidvideos, purevideo and grindtv, is set to go live with a fourth video site on monday: hollywoodupclose is a portal for celebrity videos. the purevideo team noticed that over a third of purevideo.com's 1.8 million mon... entertainment panama, krillion, skype 3.0, dylan, cafe.com, ventbox, box.net-zoho, linkedin, istockvideo contest written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago skype 3.0 - skype just notified users of the release of skype 3.0. the feature set was already known, and a mac version is still being worked on. krillion - krillion, which launches officially today, is a new search engine for household appliances (y... entertainment imified - control apps via im written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago imified, which just launched, is a service for operating websites - basecamp, google calendar, salesforce, blogger, rememberthemilk, backpack, 30boxes, wordpress, movabletype and typepad - from your im client. to start, you just add the user "imified... entertainment gigya puts myspace layouts in email, gets $4m written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago you'll remember we're big fans of gigya, the new webmail service that allows users to add myspace layouts and other decorative elements to email. you can, for instance, add rockyou slideshows, myspace music players, youtube videos, photos from photob... entertainment superbowl ads make myspace written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago the youtube superbowl site we mentioned in january went live last night, and it seems to follow a digg-like system, but with a unique twist: users drag and drop items on the list to move them up and down, and hit "submit" when they're done. there's a... entertainment vodpod launches video player for myspace written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago there was a flood of video widgets at demo, and soon we'll have one more option for posting video clips to social networks - tomorrow, vodpod will launch the "pod player". vodpod, for those who aren't familiar with it, is a place to create your own v... entertainment zinglinks, bud.tv, redbubble, patientslikeme, heel press, myspace moviemashup written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago redbubble - aussie social network redbubble, which launched a preview site today, is targeting creative people. users can upload artwork and sell framed prints - there's some really nice artwork here, and it's a shame it's limited to australia right ... entertainment anywebcam, twango put webcams on myspace written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago the widget invasion will kill us all. two more new video widgets - this time offering the ability to post webcam videos to social networks, were submitted to mashable today. with flixn and flikzor (to some extent) playing this game already, it looks ... entertainment wetpaint launches widgets, new features written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago on tuesday (today, for many of you), the wiki service wetpaint is announcing a series of new features - they're already live on the site. the non-widget stuff includes custom url domain mapping to your personal or business website and autolinking (it... entertainment last.fm partners with warner written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago great news for fans of the social music recommendation service last.fm - they're announcing a partnership today with warner music group. wmg is the world's fourth biggest label, and warner's entire catalog from the us and europe will now be streamed ... entertainment flip.com launches - social networking perfection written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago flip.com, conde nast's new social network for girls that could rival piczo, is now open to everyone following the "girls-only" launch we covered in december. as we suspected, it's an awesome site. as mentioned previously, flip.com is based around "fl... entertainment facebook launching "facebook diaries" tv series written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago facebook and comcast are set to launch a tv series called "facebook diaries", made entirely from user-generated videos. the show will consist of ten half-hour episodes and appear on comcast's video on demand service, the ziddio website (ziddio is com... entertainment putfile acquired, bebo safety, zooof, mywaves, webshots, smart digg, lala, disney.com, metacafe, youtube japan written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago bebo safety - bebo hosted a series of workshops today as part of "european safer internet day". as usual, this gives the impression that bebo is concerned about safety, and gives them some positive press coverage. zooof- zooof is launching its new "f... entertainment cliproller searches metacafe, youtube, google video, more written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago we're quickly losing track of these video meta-search and aggregation tools. the latest to debut is cliproller, a site founded by web dev company clipro that searches across the video sites we're all familiar with: youtube, metacafe, revver, brightco... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.