we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for september 2014 entertainment 'once upon a time' teases an icy welcome for elsa of 'frozen' written by laura vitto over 5 years ago 'frozen' mania has slowed in real life, but it's just beginning for the town of storybrooke. ibm's cognitive computer, watson, is helping cops do their jobs, but it could have an even greater impact in the way law enforcement itself is carried out. image: mashable, amanda wills tech how big data could help prevent the next ferguson written by pete pachal over 5 years ago ibm's cognitive computer, watson, is helping cops do their jobs, but it could have an even greater impact in the way law enforcement itself is carried out. sprint cup series driver tony stewart talks to crew members during practice for sunday's nascar sprint cup series race at atlanta motor speedway on aug. 30 in hampton, ga. image: david tulis/associated press entertainment tony stewart returns to racing after crash that killed fellow driver written by colin daileda over 5 years ago stewart has missed or canceled races in new york, indiana, michigan and tennessee since the incident, two of which were part of the sprint cup. image: apple tech after celebrity photo hack, how safe is the cloud? written by christina warren over 5 years ago can you trust your photos and data with icloud? kirsten dunst is one of the alleged victims. image: fred duval, getty images entertainment social media goes wild over massive celebrity nude photo leak written by jenni ryall over 5 years ago a massive leak of what appears to be celebrities in compromising positions has the internet going into overdrive. this is how the world reacted. tech drone reveals the first stages of apple's new spaceship campus written by adario strange over 5 years ago the first stages of apple's new spaceship campus taking shape have been revealed by one curious drone user. video: youtube, wearable intelligence business google glass is getting a second look from businesses written by seth fiegerman over 5 years ago google glass is gaining attention for its potential business uses, but that's not the kind of success google was hoping for at first. texas governor rick perry delivers remarks about immigration and the need for more aggressive enforcement along the texas-mexico border at the conservative think tank the heritage foundation august 21, 2014 in washington, dc. image: chip somodevilla/getty images world rick perry's twitter account sends out 'unauthorized' meme written by jenni ryall over 5 years ago texas governor rick perry's twitter official account sent out a meme mocking the drunk-driving attorney who was behind his recent indictment. image: flickr, diarmuid (ispachi designs) business how to be a highly competitive mobile developer written by ritika trikha over 5 years ago the demand for mobile software developers is red hot, and the demand for android developers is even hotter. image: emily blincoe culture photographer's perfect 'arrangements' series highlights color and simplicity written by laura vitto over 5 years ago for photographer emily blincoe, there's beauty in precise organization. internet blogger perez hilton attends out magazine hot list party on tuesday, june 24, 2014, in new york. image: photo by andy kropa/invision/ap/associated press entertainment perez hilton apologizes and removes nude images of jennifer lawrence written by stan schroeder over 5 years ago celebrity blogger perez hilton has apologized on his twitter account and removed the nude images of jennifer lawrence and victoria justice from his website. the 7 series high security by bmw. image: bmw world australia government buys bombproof bmw fleet for g20 summit written by jenni ryall over 5 years ago the australia prime minister has ordered a fleet of bombproof bmws to protect leaders during the g20 summit in brisbane this year. an igloo in the arctic image: de agostini picture library/getty images world there are no descendants left from the first eskimos written by livescience over 5 years ago ancient human dna is shedding light on the peopling of the arctic region of the americas, revealing that the first people there did not leave any genetic descendants in the new world, unlike previously thought. the study's researchers suggest the fir... a ukrainian girl waves the national flag sitting on her father's shoulders during celebration of ukraine's 23rd independence day in kiev, ukraine, sunday, aug. 24, 2014. image: ap photo/efrem lukatsky/associated press world ukrainian forces retreat from luhansk airport written by the associated press over 5 years ago with a new round of talks on easing the crisis in ukraine about to start, russian foreign minister sergey lavrov has called on the participants to push for a cease-fire between ukrainian government troops and separatist forces. a technician uses a smartphone to scan a woman's eye in kianjokoma village, near kenya's lakeside town of naivasha. the tool detects eye diseases including cataracts and glaucoma. image: tony karumba/afp/getty images world implanted sensor could monitor glaucoma and prevent blindness written by the conversation over 5 years ago scientists have proposed a way to monitor glaucoma using a tiny device implanted in the eye. readings from the device could be monitored by a smartphone. the technology could help prevent some people from going blind. glaucoma describes a group of ey... image: getty creative erhui1979 business most businesses still don't budget for mobile technology written by businessnewsdaily over 5 years ago the use of mobile technology has likely helped to improve your business in many ways, but are you saving room in your budget for it? probably not, according to a new study from accounting solutions provider sage north america. businesses in the const... mathew miller, an american detained in north korea, spoke to the associated press on monday in pyongyang. image: wong maye-e/associated press world americans held in north korea ask u.s. for assistance written by the associated press over 5 years ago "the only hope that i have is to have someone from the u.s. come," one detainee said. business apple partners with visa, mastercard, amex for iphone 6 payments: reports written by stan schroeder over 5 years ago a new report claims apple has partnered with american express to create a mobile payment platform, allowing users to pay with their phones in brick and mortar stores. entertainment 15 captivating autobiographical books that mix fact and fiction written by madeline raynor over 5 years ago why might an author choose to fictionalize his or her life? ebikweminomo welson of nigeria (in red) takes on amit kumar amit of india at the 2014 commonwealth games in glasgow, scotland on july 29. seven nigerian wrestlers will not be able to attend the world wrestling championships in uzbekistan. image: andy buchanan/afp/getty images world 9 african wrestlers will miss world championships because of ebola travel restrictions written by jessica plautz over 5 years ago uzbekistan, where the championships are being held, has recommended wrestlers from affected west african countries not be invited. culture the definitive ranking of school supplies written by andrea romano over 5 years ago all hail the trapper keeper. world what your tv weather forecast may look like in 2050 written by andrew freedman over 5 years ago the world meteorological organization is releasing a series of videos made with prominent tv weathercasters from around the world, each showing how the daily weather forecast may change drastically by the middle of the century, due to in large part to global warming. the dome of the rock is visible over the israeli separation wall dividing occupied palestinian territory in the community of abu dis, east of jerusalem. image: istockphoto, rrodrickbeiler world uk government 'deplores' israeli move to claim palestinian land written by the associated press over 5 years ago israel's decision to expropriate almost 1,000 acres in the west bank, first announced on sunday, is the biggest such claim in 30 years. culture 24 musical tattoos that strike the right chord written by brian koerber over 5 years ago no treble clef or f-hole tattoos here. participants in the 2012 west indian day parade. image: flickr, francisco daum world west indian day parade kicks off in new york written by jessica plautz over 5 years ago mayor bill de blasio joined festivities early monday. image: mashable/christina ascani tech how to protect your photos (nude or otherwise) from hackers on icloud written by samantha murphy kelly over 5 years ago jennifer lawrence, kate upton and ariana grande are among the high-profile celebrities who apparently fell victim to a massive alleged icloud hack late sunday night, when someone exposed collections of nude photos that they had purportedly saved on t... hotels in atlantic city, photographed on march 9, 2014. image: flickr, andrewboris87 business atlantic city's revel casino set to close written by the associated press over 5 years ago it is the second of three casinos closing within two weeks. celebrity hacker christopher chaney arrives at the u.s. courthouse in downtown jacksonville on october 14, 2011. image: rick wilson, getty images entertainment entertainment what happened to the last hacker of celebrity photos written by colin daileda over 5 years ago the last hacker to steal nude images from celebrities wound up with a 10-year prison term. a gecko hangs in a glass box, before a vet examination at the bioparco zoo on december 14, 2011 in rome, italy. image: giorgio cosulich world space sex geckos dead on reentry, russia reveals written by andrew freedman over 5 years ago the geckos were part of a crew of creatures that were launched into space on july 19 in order to study reproduction in zero gravity. fruit flies successfully reproduced and survived the trip, russian officials said, but the geckos weren't so lucky. pharrell williams performs aug. 31 at made in america at benjamin franklin parkway in philadelphia. image: kevin mazur/getty images for anheuser-busch entertainment 7 standout moments from made in america music festival in philly written by brian anthony hernandez over 5 years ago kanye, jay z, pharrell, steve aoki, kings of leon, j. cole and spoon did what? here's how they stood out at the made in america music festival. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 65 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.