we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for november 2006 entertainment hivelive gets $1.15m for blog-like social network written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago hivelive, a social startup based in colorado, has raised $1.15 million in series a funding led by aeneas ventures, according to regulatory filings that are coming to light today (i haven't seen an announcement yet). i tested hivelive way back in july... entertainment last.fm to announce free mp3s, events and more written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago last.fm will announce four new features in a press release tomorrow, although a few observant users will notice them going live today. last.fm, you may recall, is a neat social network that lets you get music recommendations based on what people like... entertainment comedy central comes back to youtube written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago at the end of last week, clips from comedy central's shows, including the daily show, south park and the colbert report, were pulled from youtube due to copyright violations. i suggested that this was perhaps a negotiating tactic by owners viacom: yo... entertainment myspace, snocap strike deal with the orchard, cd baby and more written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago a few months back, snocap partnered with myspace with the intention of offering paid downloads through myspace music. snocap, you'll remember, had a myspace music player and backend technology that sold music via paypal: the deal meant that snocap's ... entertainment youme.us - yahoo answers for dating advice written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago youme.us, which launches in public beta today, is a relationship advice site where people post questions and others respond with advice. just as maya's mom is trying to do for parenting, youme.us think that the yahoo answers model could be successful... entertainment breaking: utube sues youtube written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago remember that company universal tube that owns the domain utube.com? a release on one of the press wires says that utube is now suing the video sharing site, demanding that youtube stop using their name. universal tube & rollform equipment corporatio... entertainment neoows - another digg-like social network written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago another personalized news site appears on the scene. neoows is a new service that gathers feeds from around the web and lets you read them in a social environment. you have your own feed reader called "myneoows" that can be populated by feeds from th... entertainment social networking ads: $2 billion by 2010 written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago social networks are on course to make a killing from ads, according to a report coming out of emarketer today. u.s. marketers are expected to spend $350 million in 2006, an increase of 25% over previous estimates. estimates for 2010 are also up 16 pe... entertainment yourminis - goowy to launch slick netvibes alternative written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago yourminis, which will launch officially on november 6th, is a brand new widget-based startpage from the makers of goowy. goowy, you'll remember, is a web desktop that includes free email and im capabilities - in many ways, yourminis is a more accessi... entertainment yahoo food launches written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago yahoo is launching another new site this morning, complete with social features. yahoo! food has been developed by the company's lifestyles group in santa monica, and focuses on professional content like recipes from celebrity chefs. these partners i... entertainment top 10 photo sites on myspace - photobucket crushes the competition written by kelvin over 13 years ago certainly the most popular way to decorate a myspace page is to add a photo - these are typically used for backgrounds, direct placement, contact tables, and comments. myspace makes it easy to upload photos yet many users turn to external photo shari... entertainment youtube mobile launches in 2007 written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago youtube co-founder chad hurley said at a conference yesterday that youtube will launch a service for mobile phones in 2007. speaking at the ogilvyone digital summit, hurley said that mobile video is "going to be a huge market", and that the move will... entertainment mypicklist beta 2 launches, now with more myspace written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago mypicklist are launching a brand new version their social shopping site today. the site, you may remember, is a social shopping service like kaboodle that lets you create a list of items you'd recommend to friends, post that list to blogs and social ... entertainment plugoo and geesee launch new chat services written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago two new chat services are launching this week: geesee and plugoo. the former allows you to embed a chatroom for visitors to your blog or website, while the latter is more like meebome, a widget from the makers of meebo that lets you use your existing... entertainment myspace founder sues news corp over censorship written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago brad greenspan, the guy who started the company that created myspace before it was sold to news corp in july 2005, just notified me that he's suing news corp today over alleged censorship. he's also launched censorspace, a blog that aims to shed ligh... entertainment zune.net goes live, wants to make music social written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago microsoft just informed all the users who signed up a few weeks back (including me) that the site zune.net has gone live. zune, in case you haven't been following it, is microsoft's "ipod killer", and they claim to be making music more social and sha... entertainment bayern munich threatens to sue youtube written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago could everybody who isn't threatening to sue youtube please put your hands up? today the german soccer team bayern munich threatened legal action against the site over the use of game footage. what's interesting here is that bayern president karl-hei... entertainment eefoof gets funding for youtube clone that pays written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago eefoof, a san diego-based video and photo-sharing site that shares advertising revenue with users who upload clips, has been funded. the $225k in angel funding comes from the tech coast angels, and they plan to spend it on improving the site and laun... entertainment indian youtube doesn't deserve $1.5 million written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago it's being widely reported in indian blogs and news sources this week (the latest one is a story in sda asia today) that the indian youtube clone meravideo is "close" to getting $1.5 million venture capital funding. the source, of course, is the site... entertainment why the myspace music player can't be beaten written by kelvin over 13 years ago submitted by kelvin beecroft of mashable labs, edited by pete cashmore this week on mashable we've covered three major markets for social networking add-ons: video-sharing, photo hosting and slideshows. we looked at myspace specifically, because fran... entertainment google talks getting frantic: youtube payouts worth tens of millions written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago google knew when they acquired youtube last month that they were not only snapping up the future of tv, but also a massive amount of legal baggage. so it's not surprising to see a story in the ft last night stating that google is frantically making p... entertainment evoca launches voice comments for myspace, blogs written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago evoca, the service that lets you share voice recordings, announced a new voice comments widget yesterday for myspace and blogs. they already had a tool that allowed you to post your own audio clips to myspace, hi5, multiply, piczo and the rest via a ... entertainment travelhiker launches the travelhiker project written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago travelhiker is a new social network for travel that went under the radar when it launched in august. based in harrogate, uk, they're getting by on less than £50k ($95k) in funding so far, and report a few hundred members. today they'll announce a rev... entertainment planypus to launch social site for event planning written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago chicago-based planypus will officially launch their site on november 6th, but all the features appear to be live now. intended as a place to share event plans, planypus provides a broadly similar service to heyletsgo, ilcu, eventful and minglenow's "... entertainment flixster claims 5 million users...i believe them written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago flixster is a san francisco-based social startup that's been running for 10 months, and they've been trying to stay off the radar for most of that time while they improve the service. this week they mailed me to say they're starting to promote the si... entertainment meebo im launches 1.0 version written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago meebo, the popular web-based im client, came out of alpha last night and skipped to a 1.0 release. the improvements include a new look that's much cleaner - if you liked the old design, however, you can revert to "classic". in fact, "skins" are a who... entertainment google talk comes to orkut next week written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago there have been murmurings over the past few months than google will integrate their google talk im and voice client with their social networking site orkut. this week those rumors have been confirmed, with google set to announce the integration next... entertainment pixilis to launch flickr-youtube blend written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago pixilis, which is currently in private beta, is an upcoming site from codency, the montreal-based creators of the file storage site gigasize. it's a fairly straightforward photo and video-sharing site, with features like batch uploading of images, ta... entertainment soundstation takes on snocap and myspace music written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago soundloud is a new service, launched in the past two weeks, that aims to help artists sell their music through social networking widgets. built by a two-man team and based in new york, the site's core service is the soundstation music store, a music ... entertainment gigya brings myspace layouts to email written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago israel-based gigya, which launches tomorrow, is positioning itself as email for the myspace generation. the recently-funded startup provides a web-interface that lets you embed widgets in your mail: videos from youtube and metacafe, photos from photo... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.