we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for december 2007 entertainment microsoft acquires photo sharing site webfives written by stan schroeder over 12 years ago ah, microsoft. always late to the game. maybe it's a part of their strategy: wait until google (picasa web albums) and yahoo (flickr) establish solid market positions, and then develop or buy an (usually inferior) product of their own and try to corn... entertainment aol and amazon join up for video sales written by sean p. aune over 12 years ago it was announced on friday that aol, formerly america online, has stopped selling online videos, and, instead, have teamed up with amazon's unbox service. just over a year old, it seems that aol wants to shift all of its focus to the advertising busi... entertainment did facebook lie about beacon to gain advertisers? written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago a report from the new york times implies that facebook misled advertisers who signed on to be “landmark partners” when the company announced its beacon platform on november 6th. according to coca-cola’s vice president of global interactive marketing:... entertainment silverlight powered t5m covers world aids day written by sean p. aune over 12 years ago the staff of the new silverlight-powered media site, t5m, is off in johannesburg, south africa to cover the world aids day concert. sadly, they didn't think to put any effort in to their site before leaving. while it's commendable that any site bring... entertainment imdb launching a database and social network for music? written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago amazon-owned internet movie database (imdb) has filed a trademark application for the term “soundunwound.” according to the filing, the trademark would cover: “providing information regarding, and in the nature of, social networking services; online ... entertainment plagiarize mashable stories and make money with associated content written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago this afternoon one of our readers alerted us to some plagiarism of mashable content. while seeing mashable stories re-printed word-for-word on splogs is nothing new, the source here was somewhat surprising: associated content. the company has raised ... entertainment security experts expose costly vulnerability in second life written by sean p. aune over 12 years ago second life users need to be cautious with quicktime embedded videos in the game as it may be used to pick your pocket of linden dollars. charles miller and dino dai zovi, of independent security evaluators, have found that by using a flaw in quickti... entertainment facebook's zuckerburg loses court case over documents written by sean p. aune over 12 years ago as we discussed the other day, facebook's ceo, mark zuckerberg, was going after 02138mag.com for publishing documents from his time at harvard. the social network founder was requesting the documents be pulled due to them violating his privacy. accor... entertainment sixapart unloads livejournal on russian media company sup written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago six apart, the blogging software and services company, has sold its network of topic-based blogging communities livejournal, inc. to sup, an international media company based in russia. the financial details of the acquisition were not disclosed. hav... entertainment the united nations goes green--streams climate summit online written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago the united nations is going green in an appropriate manner for its climate summit, which is being nicknamed the virtual bali conference due to its green efforts--the organization will be streaming the climate summit live, beginning tomorrow and throu... entertainment wikipedia now uses creative commons written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago all you wikipedia users out there will be happy to know that you can now legally mix your wikipedia content with creative commons content. the two have penned a deal with the free software foundation in order to extend a common manner in which the th... entertainment can nasa attract a younger crowd with social networking tools? written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago nasa is the latest to take on additional social networking tools for the purpose of attracting more users. with about 1 million unique views per month, nasa is catering directly towards the facebook crowd, in so many words--the 18 to 25 year olds. th... entertainment universal music test drm-free music with subsidiary written by sean p. aune over 12 years ago universal music is going to test out the concept of drm-free music, but not with their big gun artists... yet. now available through the dg web shop, universal is using their classical music division deutsche grammophon to test out how sales of a drm... entertainment rockyou gets top facebook application. slide going down? written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago rockyou has pushed ahead with a top facebook app yet again with a 112% increase in the last three months, coming out on top, over slide and all the others. thanks to its chart-topping super wall application, rockyou has maintained its reign over face... entertainment sony buys into virtual movie theaters; invests in gaia written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago gaia, the avatar-filled virtual world, has received an undisclosed amount of funding from sony pictures. you may be wondering why. it appears to be, in part, for building out gaia theaters, where users can congregate in virtual rooms for the purpose ... entertainment best of mashable: gmail written by sean p. aune over 12 years ago yes, there are tons of email options out there beyond gmail; some are even bigger in terms of user numbers, but let's be honest: gmail is the leader here, and everyone else just follows suit. this is our coverage of some important gmail milestones, a... entertainment beautiful digg tool provides wealth of interesting data written by stan schroeder over 12 years ago digg explorer is not a completely new tool - it's recently reached version 1.1 - but it has somehow slipped under the radar. it offers a visual representation of various digg-related statistics: most popular digg sections and subsections, often used ... entertainment asterpix hypervideos officially launch written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago asterpix is officially launching its site to the public today. though already live, the site has been operating in public beta for the past three months. we first checked out asterpix's video hyperlinking tools back in september, and immediately noti... entertainment federated media partners with facebook apps written by stan schroeder over 12 years ago despite the recent beacon controversy, federated media publishing has joined the facebook bandwagon. they have signed partnership with the owners of facebook app graffiti and watercooler inc., a company that's responsible for all those addicted to th... entertainment photobucket and picasa on your tv with tivo written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago tivo is really aiming to become more web integrated, this time bringing photo-sharing tools to its dvr service. photobucket and google's picasa can now be accessed and shared through tivo, in hd. access to these photo-sharing tools are available at n... entertainment web 2.0 marketplace listings for december 2nd, 2007 written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago the web 2.0 marketplace is a place to list web 2.0 and “new media” websites for sale, job offers, consulting services, facebook development services and more. new listings sxp.com website and domain for sale sxp.com, also socialxperience.com, is a ne... entertainment foodiebytes helps you fill your cravings written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago have you ever said to yourself “i’m in the mood for a chicken souvlaki sandwich but not sure where i can get one”? that’s the problem foodiebytes tries to solve through a new restaurant search engine launching a public beta today in 5 different metro... entertainment nbc officially breaks up with itunes written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago nbc and apple have officially broken up. the single largest partner for digital video, with more than 1,500 hours of programming making up nearly 40% of itunes video content, has officially pulled all of its content from the itunes store. the contrac... entertainment facebook beacon loses retailers. lying doesn't pay. written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago moveon.org made quite a fuss about facebook's project beacon, and facebook seemed to listen. could it be because of participating retailers pulling out of beacon as a result of all that ruckus? overstock.com and travelocity both removed their compani... entertainment universal says "no more full length songs on myspace" written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago in an odd turn of events, universal artist colbie calliat has sent an email to her fans explaining why myspace users can no longer post full versions of her songs to their social networking profile pages. this is apparently a new rule being institute... entertainment open web awards: one day left to nominate your favorite sites written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago as a reminder, the nomination phase of the open web awards ends tomorrow night at 11:59pm pst. here on mashable there are 13 different categories for which you can make nominations, while there are dozens of additional posts on our blog partners. a c... entertainment report: fox close to major deal with itunes written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago what a day for apple. after officially losing the contract with universal for television and film content, the company is closing in on a deal with news corp's twentieth century fox for offering new releases and other movie titles on itunes. the movi... entertainment internet video producers: have a plan written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 12 years ago tvweek downplays the ability for independent producers to come online and make money with their independent online ventures. that's understandable. i won't ascribe to them an unspoken bias against new media, since only the absolutely most informed we... entertainment golark is digg for events written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago golark is an upcoming event promotions tool that follows two distinct measures for organizing its site: posting and searching events. in order to better find events in your city, golark has instituted a voting feature that lets popular events rise to... entertainment facebook application courses gets $500k in funding written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago another milestone for facebook applications. inigral, the company that created the courses app that lets you find others in your college classes to share notes and thoughts, has raised a round from the founders fund totaling $500,000. angel investors... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 21 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.