we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for december 2012 entertainment facebook cover photos are disappearing written by pete pachal over 7 years ago in the scope of a couple of days, several people -- including mashable staffers -- have seen their facebook cover photos disappear without explanation. the issue appears to be a move by facebook to aggressively crack down on images that are considere... social good teenager's search for lost hat touches hearts, goes viral on facebook written by eric larson over 7 years ago bridget hughes' quest for her lost hat -- which belonged to her mother before she passed away from cancer -- has the internet searching with her. culture santa uses windows phone to track who's been naughty or nice written by emily price over 7 years ago every wonder how santa keeps track of who’s been naughty or nice? according to a new windows phone ad, there’s an app for that. in the video above, the naughty or nice live app helps santa watch out for who’s been bad or good, delivering that informa... business the 20 most-shared ads of 2012 written by todd wasserman over 7 years ago is kony 2012 an ad? if so, it was the most-viral ad of the year. if not, it was just an extremely effective advocacy video and a belgian video for cable network tnt was actually the most-viral ad of 2012. unruly, which keeps tabs on viral video activ... tech chameleon clock app blends your ipad in with its surroundings written by emily price over 7 years ago ever have trouble finding your iphone or ipad? now there’s an app that hides your idevice on purpose. meet chameleon clock, which uses the rear-facing camera on your device to blend it in to its surroundings. the clock displays what’s behind it on th... entertainment tackle pet obesity with this dog pedometer written by psfk over 7 years ago the wandant dog pedometer, developed by electronics maker fujitsu, is a specialized pedometer made to keep track of your pet’s health. u.s. bask in gift-giving glory with sincerely's sesame app written by joann pan over 7 years ago this year, holiday shopping can be as easy as scrolling through an app and clicking "gift it." the best part: you won't have to worry about shipping. sesame is a gift-giving app launched this week by sincerely -- the makers of postagram. the gift set... tech are amphibious homes the solution to flooding? written by eric larson over 7 years ago a uk architecture firm is constructing an "amphibious" home near the river thames to better prevent damage from flooding. entertainment the 7 best tablets for kids written by andrea smith over 7 years ago if you've been spending way too little time with your tablet because it's usually in the hands of your kids, it may be time to think about getting them one of their own. plus, like it or not, a portable tablet is a great way to keep kids entertained ... tech griffin debuts its lightning connector cables written by appadvice over 7 years ago griffin technology‘s first lightning connector accessories are expected to launch at retail locations beginning on dec. 3. business unison takes the pain out of conference calls written by seth fiegerman over 7 years ago unison lets employees communicate through virtual rooms organized around specific projects to help boost collaboration and productivity. business 5 ways to make a seasonal job permanent written by chelsea gladden over 7 years ago for the unemployed, the holidays are not only a fantastic opportunity to earn money, but also a chance to get a foot in the door with companies. entertainment 11 hot news stories you may have missed written by emily banks over 7 years ago if you even blinked this week you might have missed one of mashable's top news stories, opinion pieces or reviews -- including the biggest fake news on facebook (and how to protect yourself from it), interviews with nasa and neil patrick harris, and ... entertainment are we living better with the jawbone 'up' electronic bracelet? written by andrea smith over 7 years ago you've probably read all the stories about how sitting for too long can kill you. how prolonged sitting causes discomfort, numbness and spine misalignment. i have a new magic weapon -- the newly relaunched jawbone up. if i've been sitting for too lon... entertainment hukkster alerts you when your most-wanted items are discounted written by joann pan over 7 years ago hukkster is a new online shopping tool that tracks your most coveted fashion finds and alerts you by email about sudden price drops. world fugitive antivirus founder mcafee interviewed in secret location [updated] written by charlie white over 7 years ago the bizarre story of mcafee antivirus software company founder john mcafee keeps getting weirder, and now cnn has caught up with the 67-year-old tech titan at his hideout in belize. culture comic: this is why your email was hacked written by amanda wills over 7 years ago even google's two-step authentication can't protect you from naiveté. tech opinion: what would steve jobs think about windows 8? written by tabtimes over 7 years ago over the last week, i've found myself wondering what steve jobs would make of windows 8 if he were alive today. it's likely he would be entirely dismissive or unwilling to comment on the new os at all. even so, i'm betting he would consider the new w... business the most-tweeted words on black friday were ... [infographic] written by brian anthony hernandez over 7 years ago what was on the minds of black friday shoppers? this infographic details the top-tweeted words on black friday. culture deck the fails: 15 weird and wacky christmas tree ornaments written by annie colbert over 7 years ago if the traditional hall decking and tree decorating gives you a case of the scrooges, electrify your christmas decor with offbeat ornaments. nothing spreads holiday cheer quite like festive poop on a rope or santa hat-clad boogers. tech your most mobile friend deserves the wallee smartphone mount written by stephanie buck over 7 years ago you bring your phone everywhere -- your desk, the kitchen, your car and, dare we say, the bathroom. wouldn't it be handy if you could secure that valuable device in each of the places you use it most? created by studio proper, the wallee m smartphone... world teens react to chilling cyberbullying video written by brian anthony hernandez over 7 years ago an emotional reaction video to the viral cyberbullying clip uploaded to youtube by amanda todd, a student later found dead, showcases a range of emotions. tech top 10 tech this week written by lorenzo franceschi-bicchierai over 7 years ago it was another exciting week in technology and gadgetry. check out our gallery and read the full stories right here on top 10 tech. world after nfl player jovan belcher kills girlfriend and self, league rallies on twitter written by brian anthony hernandez over 7 years ago kansas city chiefs player jovan belcher killed his girlfriend and committed suicide saturday. here's how nfl players and teams reacted on twitter. entertainment 68 digital media resources you may have missed written by fran berkman over 7 years ago it's been another busy week in the digital world. catch up on the latest digital media resources with our weekly features roundup. tech 7 apps you don't want to miss written by emily price over 7 years ago it can be tough to keep up with all the new apps released every week. but you're in luck -- here's our app roundup. entertainment 6 futuristic fireplaces to keep you warm this winter written by kate freeman over 7 years ago who would have guessed -- the futuristic-looking luxury fireplace industry is booming. surprisingly, if you can dream it, it can be built. but, most of the time, it'll cost you. it seems we're no longer just content to view the crackling yule log on ... business how valuable is a social media audience, really? written by spencer richardson over 7 years ago there are key market principles driving a social media audience's value. here's how digital marketers can tap into them. entertainment apple ceo tim cook walks through grand central, hardly anyone notices written by brian anthony hernandez over 7 years ago tim cook gave his first tv interview as apple ceo to nbc, and the segment will show cook stroll through grand central in new york virtually unnoticed. culture shark jumped: 'glee' covers gangnam style [video] written by charlie white over 7 years ago on glee's thanksgiving show, this hyper-produced version of "gangnam style" happened, with lots of well-tuned singing and wooden dancing. ouch. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 48 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.