we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for april 2007 entertainment youtube on youtube's updates written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago these startups that put up explanations on youtube are making our jobs far too easy. the latest to do so is youtube itself, which has posted a clip to explain the round of updates we spoke about on wednesday night. while not as extensive as beet.tv r... entertainment yahoo underground launches...for some reason written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago update: andy in the comments notes that yahoo spoke about a similar idea to yahoo underground back in october 2006, which might be fodder against the "april fools" theory. -- we got a tip off a few minutes ago about the appearance yahoo underground, ... entertainment gmail paper, google tisp written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago update: we just found another one - google tisp. actually, this one is semi-plausible. now we gotta beware of the double bluff. ;) -- it's only just turned april fools, but already the gags are piling into our inbox. google is out the door running, l... entertainment twitter interface for eventful: fact of fool? written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago since there are so many potential "fool" announcements today, you might as well play along at home. eventful, for instance, is announcing that it is switching to an "all twitter" interface to bypass issues like uptime, instant responses, clean markup... entertainment mashable is hiring writers written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago updated, may 12th 2007: new writers are still being accepted. -- as more and more social startups and stories pile into the mashable inbox, we risk being overwhelmed by the volume. kristen is doing an amazing job of keeping us on top of things, but t... entertainment had enough google april fools? written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago google writer is said to be a new application that will basically write blog posts for you automatically. do we smell another google-related april fools? most definitely. but the concept is certainly something that google could pull off. "google writ... entertainment zoominfo launches semantic search engine written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago zoominfo, the business market search engine, will be announcing tomorrow a set of new features, including a patented semantic search that tags, aggregates and organizes the information for people, companies, products and services, and industries. zoo... entertainment facebook launches live poke written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago in a similar idea to the launch of gmail paper (email on printed paper), facebook is rolling out live poke today, a service in which facebook will dispatch a real person to poke your friend. a "mark zuckerberg" production, the message in the footer, ... entertainment myspace bugs month written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago momby, the blog that gained a lot of attention (at least from the digg crowd) for providing a month of apple bugs, is launching a "month of myspace bugs" today. every day, they'll be posting a new exploit to take advantage of myspace's numerous secur... entertainment slashdottit: slashdot clones digg written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago in an obvious attempt at digg bait, slashdot launched "slashdottit" today, which turns the slashdot interface into a digg clone. the number of votes being counted is ridiculously huge - as much as 6*10^23 for some stories. that's significantly more v... entertainment slideroll av lets you create photo and video galleries offline written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago slideroll is known for its easy-to-use slideshow creation tools for images and video, and sploder, the flash game creator. now they're launching a new product, slideroll gallery av, which is a desktop application that makes it even easier to create p... entertainment emi first label to go without drm? written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago update: emi has now confirmed that it will be selling drm free tracks. the release is here. emi announced on sunday that it has an "exciting new digital offering," for the media event to be held in london on monday with steve jobs as a special guest,... entertainment crispads sold written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago the blog ads network crispads has been sold for an undisclosed price. the company originally attempted an ebayquisition with a starting bid of $90k, but they don't seem to have received much interest. at that time - september 2006 - they said they ha... entertainment magnify.net goes feature crazy written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago magnify.net, the company that lets you create your own niche video channel, will announce a plethora of new features this week - they're expected to go live on tuesday. first up, they've improved their drag-and-drop function to include your members o... entertainment ebayquisition: synapse life sells for $60k written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago the latest ebayquisition: synapselife, a suite of web-based applications that are available on your mobile phone, sold for $60k on ebay in the last few hours. the founders are now switching their focus to down2night, a much sexier social app that wil... entertainment topix.com does the obvious thing written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago topix.net, the news aggregator, will make the jump to the topix.com domain tonight. we reported previously on the risks involved with a switch of domain when the site is so established, but topix feels that the .com has more brand power and will avoi... entertainment compete now measures time and velocity written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago compete is releasing two new kinds of analytics for its free site metrics service today, both focusing on attention-based site activity. much like nielsen ratings, compete's attention metric will now measure the amount of time a visitor spends on a s... entertainment lonelyplanet.tv - lonely planet goes the youtube route written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago lonely planet, the company that produces travel guides and programming for channels such as the discovery network, has launched lonelyplanet.tv (lp.tv). taking a cue from other traditional media companies, lonely planet is enlarging its online presen... entertainment grooveshark private beta sneak peek written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago grooveshark is a peer-to-peer music sharing site, currently still in private beta, but we got a sneak peek today so we'll share it with you. grooveshark has created a community similar in sharing capabilities to the original napster, and bittorrent. ... entertainment hook.tv epitomizes the niche video network written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago hook.tv, a niche video-sharing site for fishing enthusiasts, will announce its launch later this week. hook.tv, though niche, offers the makings of a successful video-sharing site. subscribe to a user's channel, add any content to your own channel, u... entertainment motionbox to power japanese video travel site written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago motionbox is an online video-sharing site, based in new york. they've just announced their partnership with arukikata, a prominent japanese travel site, to power their video-sharing service. travel is big business, and the entire industry has taken w... entertainment picli is digg for photos...yawn written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago picli, another newcomer cloning the digg interface, is an online photo gallery sustained by a community that shares content and votes on images. it's along the lines of a bare bones flickr or morguefile where images can be taken and used for other pu... entertainment mymuv - a social network for trends written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago mymuv is a social network for trends and lifestyle choices that came back on the mashable radar today. at mymuv, you can see trends and lifestyle choices posted by others, or start your own muv (pronounced "move"). chinese food versus italian food, f... entertainment comscore files for $86 million ipo written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago likely to be big news in the stat-tracking sector: comscore has filed for a $86.25 million ipo today. the company will trade on the nasdaq with the ticker symbol scor, and credit suisse and deutsche bank securities will serve as underwriters. comscor... entertainment culturecloud is a lightweight gather written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago culturecloud, which is launching on april 9th, claims to be a mature myspace, when in fact its approach is much closer to gather, the writing community. this social network for a slightly older demographic has a simplistic, vertical style that would ... entertainment rawsugar still breathing? written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago interesting development over at rawsugar: the site, which failed to gain traction and was pronounced dead by us in december after it shut its offices and laid off its employees, is going through a revamp of sorts. we spotted a post on the company blo... entertainment girlsense lives up to its name written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago girlsense, created by the microsoft-owned esupport company gteko, is re-launching as an ad-based community for girls to design and "sell" their fashion creations. the site is targeted towards teen and pre-teen girls, and has incorporated fun as well ... entertainment thrift: facebook gets thrifty written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago facebook announced last night that it will give away thrift, a core part of its software infrastructure, as open source. thrift is a software framework that takes one programming language and performs code generation to "create programs that communic... entertainment facebook diaries is live written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago facebook diaries, the partnership between comcast's ziddio video sharing site and facebook, is now live. you can see it in the facebook group, on ziddio.com and in the embedded clip below. the series will also be aired on tv. the partnership should p... entertainment 30boxes twitter mashup written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago 30boxes, the online calendar management tool, released twapper 2.0b today - this is a new version of the tool that lets you integrate 30boxes with twitter. now you can post updates to your twitter account directly from 30boxes and with their mobile t... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 16 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.