we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for december 2009 entertainment move over bsod, black screen of death is here written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago it seems that the latest security patches from microsoft, deployed over the last patch tuesday, are causing serious problems for some users of windows, including windows 7. in a nutshell, the affected windows machines simply stop working and start di... entertainment twitter, facebook, google go red for world aids day written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago today, december 1, is world aids day, and companies such as google, facebook and twitter are joining the (red) campaign, raising awareness about aids in africa. you may have noticed that the twitter homepage has turned red in honor of the occasion, b... entertainment the king of pop is the king of google search 2009 written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago bing and yahoo have already released their lists of the most popular search terms of 2009, and now it's time for the undisputed, heavyweight champion of search -- google, in the red trunks -- to announce its rundown. in their annual zeitgeist report,... entertainment cyber monday deals ignite sales for online retailers [stats] written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago by midday yesterday it looked like we might be in for a big cyber monday, and today, final stats show that it was definitely a strong showing for online retailers. according to numbers provided by coremetrics, sales for this year’s cyber monday beat ... entertainment fring brings video calls to the iphone written by christina warren over 10 years ago we've always been impressed with fring, the voip and chat client for your mobile phone. the service works with a ton of different networks, including skype, aim, msn messenger and twitter. plus, you can make calls to landlines from your skypeout/skyp... entertainment redux creates unique visualizations of what your friends are sharing written by christina warren over 10 years ago we first wrote about redux back in july. redux is a web site that turns status updates and real-time feeds into an entertainment destination. it's basically a friendfeed/twitter/youtube mashup. in october, the service added support for your twitter a... entertainment facebook and myspace booting sex offenders in droves written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago social networks have been in the precarious position of having to deal with sex offenders since their early days, but as a result of new laws being passed around the country, several local governments now also play a role in keeping predators off the... entertainment kick off the holidays with an advent calendar for techies written by christina warren over 10 years ago even if you don't celebrate christmas, advent calendars can be a lot of fun. and while web-based advents don't evoke quite the same thrill as opening up a tangible paper door on every day in december, they can still be full of nice surprises. 24ways ... entertainment would you pay to watch new tv shows for $1.99 on youtube? [rumor] written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago if you’re among the growing number of people abandoning their cable and satellite tv packages in favor of alternatives like itunes, hulu, and netflix, here’s something interesting to consider: youtube may soon offer streaming tv shows the day after t... entertainment twitter creator offers sneak peek of iphone payment system written by ben parr over 10 years ago several months ago, we learned that twitter's inventor and chairman, jack dorsey, was working on a brand new project, his first after stepping down as twitter's ceo. soon his new project was revealed to be the square iphone payment system, which inte... entertainment url shortener cli.gs acquired by social bookmarking company written by ben parr over 10 years ago while url shorteners such as bit.ly have been growing rapidly due to the rise of twitter, others have been left in the dust. tr.im has gone open source after shutting down in dramatic fashion. more recently, cli.gs announced that it was shutting down... entertainment youtube + movies = marriage made in marketing heaven [stats] written by christina warren over 10 years ago warner bros. recently released the highly anticipated film where the wild things are, in which acclaimed director spike jonze brought maurice sendak's classic children's book to life, injecting it with his unique style. to promote the film, warner br... entertainment google wants to see your town in 3d written by christina warren over 10 years ago google introduced building maker, a tool to allow users to make accurate 3d models of buildings, in october. the service provides users with aerial photographs that can be superimposed on 3d shapes in order to construct accurate models of a given pla... entertainment comcast to buy nbc universal written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago cnbc is reporting that that the deal for ge to sell nbc universal to comcast is done. while we've been anticipating a possible deal since rumors started circulating in late september, yesterday's move by ge (the parent company of nbc) to buy vivendi'... entertainment google caves to murdoch, adds new options for publishers written by ben parr over 10 years ago as newspapers and old media companies have seen their revenues shrink, they have essentially done one of two things: found ways to embrace the web or blamed google for their problems. now with the heat being turned up on google by news corp and ruper... entertainment steve jobs gives his blessing to streaming video iphone app written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago as soon as news spread that the iphone 3gs would support video recording, anticipation started to build for the day when users could stream video live from their phones without having to jailbreak them. unfortunately, apple has refused to permit stre... entertainment google to retire gears in favor of html5 written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago the next big revision of html, html5, is on the horizon, promising a whole host of new conveniences, including offline support for popular web applications--something you're already familiar with if you're using the google gears browser add-on. in a ... entertainment just married: groom changes facebook relationship status at the altar [video] written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago we've seen plenty of twittered marriage proposals, but a recent video posted to youtube takes the cake for the most unconventional twitter and facebook update. during his wedding ceremony, dana hanna whipped out his mobile device and not only changed... entertainment at&t dead last in customer satisfaction [report] written by barb dybwad over 10 years ago from the "this might not come as much of a surprise" department comes the latest wireless customer satisfaction survey from consumer reports. the annual results from over 50,000 readers surveyed in 26 u.s. cities found at&t to have the lowest custome... entertainment amazon cyber monday traffic jumps by 44 percent written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago cyber monday traffic data has officially arrived, and it should come as no surprise that amazon was the top visited retail web site, according to experian hitwise. in fact, amazon accounted for 15.53 percent of all cyber monday traffic to the top 500... entertainment what will comcast-nbc mean for hulu? written by ben parr over 10 years ago it's taken several months, but it looks like the deal is done: comcast is buying nbc universal from ge. well, at least 51 percent of it. while the deal still has to pass regulatory hurdles, it seems likely that the tonight show and the office are goi... entertainment facebook ceo: prepare for some big privacy changes written by ben parr over 10 years ago in a rare open letter, facebook founder and ceo mark zuckerberg has announced a series of privacy changes, starting with the removal of regional networks. since its inception, facebook has been based on networks. first, it was your college and univer... entertainment top 10 video sharing sites judged by mashable readers written by barb dybwad over 10 years ago if you've played along in our lunchtime poll series thus far, you'll know we throw out a typically open-ended poll question and let you lovely readers have at it in the comments. recently, we learned your top 10 news readers, and in our last poll we ... entertainment microsoft launches its own twitter... in china written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago microsoft has decided to capitalize on the popularity of windows live messenger in china, launching a new service called msn juku, which they call a "local innovation developed by msn china." the service, however, is a lot like twitter: it lets users... entertainment facebook's road to 350 million users written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago mark zuckerberg's note detailing facebook's latest privacy changes also contained an announcement about another important milestone for facebook: 350 million users. it's a flabbergasting number, but even more amazing is the speed with which facebook ... entertainment acer plans to launch a chrome os netbook in late 2010 written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago can't wait to try out google's chrome os on an actual netbook? you might have to contain yourself until the second half of 2010, as that's when acer -- the first company to announce the development of a chrome-based netbook -- plans to release theirs... entertainment mog launches all you can eat music service [free invites] written by barb dybwad over 10 years ago we wrote last week about the impending launch of the mog music subscription service, and now that day is here. to recap, mog will be taking on napster and rhapsody in the all-you-can-eat, on-demand listening experience for $5 per month. with an exten... entertainment yahoo’s newest strategy: lots and lots of facebook written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago with more than 350 million users, facebook is winning the social networking race by a landslide. but another area they’re winning big (in large part due to that growth) is in portable identity, where their facebook connect platform competes with offe... entertainment sony pictures bringing online video to boxee written by christina warren over 10 years ago boxee, the media center with a social twist, will be launching its public beta on december 7 -- which is great news for those of us who have been using the service since the very early alpha days on our apple tvs or macs. even before boxee enters its... entertainment tiger woods and the destruction of personal privacy written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago for the past six days, much of the world has been riveted by the fallout from the thanksgiving car accident of tiger woods. the story has been driven in large part by the online tabloid media and the all-knowing eyes of tmz, who has speculated about ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 21 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.