we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for april 2016 image: bmw tech bmw's new app wants to be your personal assistant for driving written by karissa bell almost 4 years ago while we're still several years away from truly autonomous cars, that doesn't mean your car can't be a little smarter about how you get from point a to point b. image: image: john c. hillery/ap/associated press world when a kidnapper held a press conference with a gun to a man's head written by alex arbuckle almost 4 years ago in 1977, tony kiritsis held richard o. hall's life in his hands, with the cameras rolling. entertainment katy perry, christina aguilera sign letter calling for changes to copyright law written by emily blake almost 4 years ago bon jovi and fifth harmony are also among 57 artists and songwriters who signed the letter. image: google tech april fools' prank turns google maps into an epic disco dance party written by karissa bell almost 4 years ago google doesn't mess around when it comes to april fools' day. culture 8 snapchat pranks you can pull off from the comfort of your phone written by chloe bryan almost 4 years ago nail the perfect prank from the comfort of your own phone. the new t-shirt logo that's making one local musician some extra cash. image: colin dussault/cleveland plain-dealer world t-shirt predicts a riot of a time at gop convention written by marcus gilmer almost 4 years ago one cleveland man is taking advantage of the hoopla surrounding the upcoming gop convention and talk of unrest. kanye west's 'saint pablo' leaked on thursday. image: getty images entertainment kanye west's 'saint pablo' leaks, revealing why he chose tidal written by emily blake almost 4 years ago on the six-minute track, kanye also addresses his apparent debt and armchair diagnoses. image: in memoriam culture canadian man writes his own hilarious obituary written by brian koerber almost 4 years ago 'a funeral is a waste of harrrrrrd earned and harrrrrrd saved money that my family can use now.' tesla's new store in brooklyn, ny. image: tyler essary/mashable tech how to watch the tesla model 3 unveiling written by kellen beck almost 4 years ago tesla is unveiling the model 3 at 8:30 p.m. pst culture content squirrel takes a victory nap immediately after feast written by brian koerber almost 4 years ago this is squirrel heaven. culture 10 bathroom pranks for april fools' day morning written by laura vitto almost 4 years ago disgusting. tech tesla unveils the model 3, its mass-market electric car written by nick jaynes almost 4 years ago tesla ceo elon musk has unveiled the model 3, the company's first "affordable" electric vehicle. culture april fools' prank asks you to mail in your used condoms for good of the planet written by johnny lieu almost 4 years ago in the heat of the moment, many of us forget that used condoms are actually not too great for the environment. image: university of california, irvine entertainment california university builds esports arena, recruits 'league of legends' team written by olivia niland almost 4 years ago the university of california, irvine will be the first public research university to offer such scholarships. culture 10 very harmless pranks that won't make you feel guilty written by chloe bryan almost 4 years ago keep your conscience clear this april fools' day. a statue of ronald mcdonald on display outside a mcdonald's restaurant in beijing. image: andy wong/ap business mcdonald's adding 1,500 outlets in china, hong kong and south korea written by alicia tan almost 4 years ago there are already 2,800 mcdonald's restaurants in these three territories. the tesla model 3 in red. image: tesla tech tesla model 3 gets 134,000 pre-orders in 24 hours written by victoria ho almost 4 years ago much of that was before the car was even unveiled to the public. tesla ceo elon musk announces expansion plans for the company's retail and supercharger networks at the unveiling of the model 3. image: nick jaynes/mashable tech tesla plans massive expansion of supercharger network written by pete pachal almost 4 years ago tesla is planning to double the size of its retail and supercharger networks by the end of 2017. image: tesla motors tech what it's like to ride in the tesla model 3 written by nick jaynes almost 4 years ago it's quiet, smooth and quick-ish. image: aaron davidson/getty images entertainment redfoo only sold 144 copies of his debut album in australia written by johnny lieu almost 4 years ago looks like the party is over for the excitable 40-year-old american rapper redfoo, whose debut solo album has flopped hard in australia. so immersive. image: google tech google cardboard plastic lets you experience actual reality written by stan schroeder almost 4 years ago realer than real. cara delevingne shared a series of very honest tweets on friday morning. image: domine-poree-wyters/sipa usa/twitter/mashable composite culture cara delevingne opens up about her depression in a series of emotional tweets written by sam haysom almost 4 years ago "i am focusing on filming and trying to learn how not to pick apart my every flaw." a view of the giant sinkhole in a nearly dried-up fish pond after all the fish were sucked into the hole in baisha town. image: hai ou/imaginechina/ap world giant sinkhole appears overnight, swallows 25 tonnes of fish written by alicia tan almost 4 years ago "it's as if the fish grew wings and flew away." entertainment this south korean vlogger wants you to know it's okay to play with your food written by armand valdes almost 4 years ago take feminism and smother it in fries and ketchup. image: remedy entertainment entertainment 'quantum break' feels trapped in a time travel paradox written by chelsea stark almost 4 years ago time travel does not generally end well. there are usually insectoid monsters or morlocks or super hitlers waiting for you on the other end. quantum break doesn't stray from these ideas, even as one of the most ambitious aaa releases in recent memory... nifty lookin' suit, right? image: lexus tech lexus' velcro seats keep the driver hopelessly stuck to the car written by stan schroeder almost 4 years ago help me bro, i'm stuck to my seat! this is just perfect image: markforhm tech mark zuckerberg's h&m collection is just gray t-shirts and blue jeans written by stan schroeder almost 4 years ago because your life doesn't need to be complicated. image: roccothepug/instagram culture rocco the pugtender is the ultimate cocktail connoisseur written by diana shi almost 4 years ago wow, that bartender is really cute! image: brittany herbert/mashable tech instagram was down for a while, and everyone thought it was the worst april fools' prank ever written by stan schroeder almost 4 years ago oops. pope francis poses with south korean president park geun-hye in seoul, south korea on august 14, 2014. image: korea pool/sipa usa world north korea's 'catholic church' blasts south's president park as 'satanic' written by victoria ho almost 4 years ago it has described her and her supporters as “satanic hordes” and “villains worse than worms." ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 106 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.