we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for august 2009 entertainment marissa mayer: twitter is complementary to google [video] written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago marissa mayer, google's vp search products & user experience, took fairly direct questions in the most recent edition of digg dialogg, the interviews series from social news site digg. topics include the upcoming launch of google wave, how google fee... entertainment at&t and apple ban google voice app: is it illegal? written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago apple's rejection of applications from the iphone app store is at times baffling, and at others, potentially anti-competitive. dow jones reports tonight that the fcc is looking into one such ban - the recent rejection of the google voice app from the... entertainment "twitter rape case": mc hammer's cousin arrested written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago marvin turrell grant, the cousin of mc hammer who makes frequent appearances on a&e's "hammertime" tv show, was arrested on thursday on suspicion of raping a woman he met through twitter. a 40-year old woman claims that the star, known on the show as... entertainment youtube redesign: becoming the google of video? written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago youtube may be testing changes to its navigation design, according to reader eric calouro. while visiting the site's homepage today, he grabbed a screenshot of a previously unseen design that puts a large search box at the top of the page, removes th... entertainment when do you use twitter versus facebook? written by soren gordhamer over 10 years ago soren gordhamer is the author of wisdom 2.0: ancient secrets for the creative and constantly connected (harperone, 2009). his homepage is: www.sorengordhamer.com. you can follow him on twitter. there is growing body of people who actively use more th... tech at&t: app store rejections are all apple's fault written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago well, that clears up some of the confusion: at&t sent us an extremely brief statement today in response to yesterday's reports that the fcc is investigating apple's app store rejections policy. the short of it: at&t is claiming no direct involvement ... entertainment youtube hidden features: asparagus and add a scream [parody video] written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago it's a little-known fact that adding a timestamp to the end of a youtube url jumps you to that point in the video. but did you know this is one of many hidden url tricks available on the video sharing site? according to comedy video site college humo... entertainment maybe the riaa should just charge $22,500 per song written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago the riaa has been awarded $675,000 in the case of joel tenenbaum, a student who illegally downloaded 30 songs. if the award stands, tenenbaum will be filing for bankruptcy. since tenenbaum had already admitted to infringement, the jury's instructions... entertainment sarah palin divorce rumor debunked on facebook written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago sarah palin is divorcing husband todd, according to a single source: the alaska report blog. the somewhat sketchy story spread quickly on twitter, but other news sites did not pick it up. now the palin camp has moved to debunk the rumor, choosing an ... tech forget the apple tablet, try the macbook cake [pics] written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago can't wait another month for the rumored apple tablet? perhaps we can interest you in the macbook cake, an intricate, 100% edible rendering of a macbook pro created by new york's bcakeny. the astoundingly detailed cake includes a wireless mouse, suga... entertainment myspace launches myspace graveyard [parody video] written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago it's no secret that myspace, once the undisputed leader in the social networking realm, has been losing users at an alarming rate. hitwise recently reported that the site is sliding in the music and entertainment category, while one proposed comeback... entertainment twitter bloodbath: world of blood games move to twitter written by ben parr over 10 years ago at their peak, the world of blood series had a dominant presence on facebook. the series consisted of four primary time-consuming online rpgs: blood lust, skies of blood, city of blood, and elven blood. combined, they have hundreds of thousands of ac... entertainment facebook leads to suicide, warns uk head of roman catholic church written by ben parr over 10 years ago are facebook, myspace, and cell phones creating a suicide-prone generation of children? archbishop vincent nichols, the head of the catholic church in england and wales, strongly believes so. he also points the finger at sms and football players (soc... entertainment quote 5 words from the associated press? that'll be $12.50 written by ben parr over 10 years ago we've known that the associated press has some odd policies in regards to social media and the web for a while. the ap social media policy says that employees need to control not only what they said on facebook, but what their friends said as well. w... entertainment how to: customize your youtube channel written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago youtube recently redesigned channel pages to make them more dynamic and easier to customize. the beta channels are now a hodgepodge of your uploads, favorites, playlists, and numerous in-channel editing options. should you upgrade to the new design, ... entertainment #freemediave: venezuelans using twitter to protest media crackdown written by ben parr over 10 years ago over the last few days, venezuela has been closing down radio and media stations that are denouncing the government and its actions. this is not going down quietly, though, as protesters are fighting back against what critics consider the infringemen... entertainment going google: the apple switch ads for the web app era written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago more than 7 years after the launch of the apple switch ads, microsoft once again finds itself the target of an ad campaign that attempts to chip away at its dominant market share. this week google is launching the "going google" campaign, reports cne... entertainment geeks unite: global geek week launches today #geeks4good written by adam hirsch over 10 years ago the society for geek advancement and the summer of social good charity fund are proud to announce global geek week, including a week-long youtube video competition. submit your geek inspired video to the global geek week youtube group for the chance ... entertainment lost, grey’s, and other abc shows coming to netflix written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago last month, abc shows like lost and grey’s anatomy started appearing on hulu, thanks to disney’s deal earlier this year to take a stake in the online video site. now, abc shows are heading to netflix, where they’ll be available to subscribers via liv... entertainment the journalist's guide to facebook written by leah betancourt over 10 years ago leah betancourt is the digital community manager at the star tribune in minneapolis, minn. she is @l3ahb3tan on twitter. celebrities like martha stewart and bill gates might find facebook high maintenance, but the world's largest social networking si... entertainment facebook on nintendo dsi: a small glimpse of the future written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago at e3, both microsoft and nintendo announced plans to utilize facebook connect on their console gaming platforms. starting later today, the first such integration goes live, as nintendo dsi owners will get the ability to upload photos from their devi... entertainment social cord: charge for content via twitter written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago new service social cord has devised a way to charge your twitter followers to access premium content: just sign up on the site, authenticate your twitter account and promote your subscription service to your followers. whenever you want to send out s... entertainment are you happy? your iphone wants to know written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago how happy are you right now? a new iphone-based research project aims to find out...and in doing so, help find out what makes you and others happy. track your happiness, a program started by harvard university doctoral candidate matt killingsworth, i... entertainment sponsored tweets launches: the end of twitter as we know it? written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago we heard rumblings that izea's sponsored tweets was about to debut back in june. today, izea's platform launched, and it is what we all expected: a pay per tweet service. sponsored tweets, now live, is like a seasoned twitter advertising platform, ta... entertainment bing still growing, steals market share from google written by ben parr over 10 years ago we already knew that microsoft's bing got off to a good start by gaining about 3% market share in june, according to comscore. now, analytics and research firm statcounter has released their july numbers for search, and they're telling the same story... tech breaking: google ceo eric schmidt resigns from apple's board of directors written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago google ceo eric schmidt stepped down today from apple's board of directors, a role that many said created conflicts of interest as apple and google rival each other in multiple market sectors. in particular, google android is a direct competitor to a... entertainment twitter is top social media platform at fortune 100 companies written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago lots of big brands are embracing social media, but which platform is most popular? at least as far as fortune 100 companies go, twitter easily takes the top spot, according to a recent study from pr firm burson-marsteller. according to their findings... entertainment #hyatt4good mashable tweetups this week in chicago, denver and la written by adam hirsch over 10 years ago this week we continue our #hyatt4good tweetup tour in chicago, denver and los angeles. following this week, we'll be in dc and then boston. please rsvp if you plan on attending. each event is free or 100% donation to our summer of social good charity... entertainment associated press: we are not targeting bloggers written by ben parr over 10 years ago yesterday, we brought to light that the associated press had begun charging for the republishing of its articles, starting at $2.50 per word. the news was heavily shared and came to as a shock to many, if the 80+ comments in our last article is any i... entertainment tony hsieh, ceo of @zappos: live interview on #mashchat at 4:00pm pt written by ben parr over 10 years ago zappos, the online apparel retailer, is lauded for its unprecedented level of customer service and social media engagement. its unique brand of customer relations, its extensive twitter outreach, and initiatives like zappos tv are big parts of why am... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 20 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.