we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for december 2005 entertainment podzinger and blinkx - creating searchable podcasts written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago it's pretty clear we need better tools to make podcasts searchable and indexable. i'd also like auto-tagging (riya for podcasts?), but that's another story. there's no shortage of startups rapidly filling this space, but a company called podzinger is... entertainment skype 2.0 with video (mac users need not apply) written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago as you've no doubt already heard, skype 2.0 beta supports video and (finally) grouping of your contacts. but just like google, the skypers seem to be forgetting that many of the best beta testers aren't using windows - they're on macs (or linux). whe... entertainment glide effortless - desktop sharing written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago glide effortless is the new service that everyone is talking about, but no-one is actually using.* what's more, it's fairly difficult to even understand what it does. i've managed to piece together some facts from this slashdot post, but the best exp... entertainment jookster - people-powered search (again!) written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago jookster is a community-driven search engine. yup - another one, folks! like filangy, outfoxed (a firefox extension), collaborative rank and wink, jookster adds social bookmarking to the mix to generate more relevant search results. mike arrington wr... entertainment fluxiom - ajax asset management written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago here's an app that's generating a lot of interest from both ruby on rails and ajax fans. fluxiom is an asset management app for enterprises with a cool ajaxy interface - it reminds me of some of the work the 37signals guys are doing. thomas fuchs, on... entertainment congoo - premium content search engine written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago i think it's fair to say i'm not overly impressed with congoo beta. quite frankly, i don't get it. here's the blurb: congoo is a new type of search engine that uses unique, patented technology to improve upon today’s typical search experience. congoo... entertainment gcast - free podcast hosting written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago from the creators of garageband.com comes gcast, a free podcast hosting service. the catch? they want to make it back with ads - perhaps even placing audio ads in the podcasts themselves. but it seems the service is really designed to attract current... entertainment boltfolio - online portfolio (for the cool kids) written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago so what's boltfolio? it's a media-sharing site in the style of ourmedia, or perhaps "the flickr of everything". now normally being called the "flickr of something" is a bad sign, but this attempt is extremely well executed - the ui is pretty slick, t... entertainment last.fm and pandora - music discovery services written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago i'm loving the current crop of music discovery services. i've been using last.fm and pandora pretty solidily for the past week - they're both picking amazing tracks! what's more, they're both free! this rocks!... entertainment ninjam - online music collaboration written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago this is really cool - real-time jamming over the interweb! ninjam is a downloadable app that lets you jam with musicians all over the world. i've been busting out some riffs on my electric guitar and i can't believe how smooth the whole experience is... entertainment digg gets bigg! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago digg.com, the popular tech news site with ultra-fast distributed editing, is set to expand. from mediapost: digg.com, a collaboratively edited technology news site that some on the web are touting as the next slashdot, intends to branch out from tech... entertainment shoutwire - distributed news editing (a digg clone?) written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago it looks like the digg community is applying the justice of crowds* once more, this time to attack a potential competitor called shoutwire. flackos writes: a small war has been started between digg users and shoutwire users. curiously, this “war” has... entertainment imvu beta - 3d instant messaging written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago i'm not sure how new this is (the history of the wikipedia article suggests it's pretty new), but clickable culture points to a beta release of imvu, a 3d instant-messaging client. at first glance, i'm not sure whether this is a useful new tool, an u... entertainment zoominfo people search - scary stuff written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago zoominfo, a search engine that helps you find information on individuals, is back in the news after the release of some new features. paul kedrosky writes: the evolving people search tool zoominfo has taken people search up a level, with the folks th... entertainment abuser-generated content - froogle getting spammed written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago last month i mentioned google base was full of spam - and to be fair, google has made genuine efforts to remove some of the junk. but now comparison engines is reporting that froogle, google's shopping comparison engine, has the same problem: because... entertainment kanoodle to pay publishers for cookies - but is it wise? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago marketing vox reports that the search service kanoodle plans to pay publishers for distributing its cookies. niall kennedy explains: advertising network kanoodle will now pay webmasters for planting a cookie on a visitor's computer without ever showi... entertainment newsalloy - ajax rss reader written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago it's that old proverb again: you can never have enough hats, bags or rss readers. i've been testing yet another one today by the name of newsalloy, and it's not too shabby. the service has a fairly standard set of features like archiving, grouping an... entertainment jotspot tracker - spreadsheet sharing written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago goodbye numsum. hello jotspot tracker! you can always trust the jotspot guys to come up with great products, and it looks like they've done it again. jotspot tracker lets you copy and paste your excel spreadsheets into the app, then work on them in a... entertainment extra! extra! squidoo beta now public! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago squidoo, a new service i've been testing for the last few weeks, has now gone into public beta. (there hasn't been an announcement yet, but i've got the green light to go ahead and tell you about it.) the site is really a more long-tail version of ab... entertainment multiverse - mmog as a platform? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago is this mmog 2.0? could be! a new service called multiverse claims to facilitate the creation of diy virtual worlds - you could think of it as the ning of mmogs. richard bartle writes: i heard of multiverse, launching today. it's a complete, end-to-e... entertainment clipmarks - clip and save webpages written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago eric goldstein pinged me about some updates to his service clipmarks, which lets you clip and tag snippets of web pages. from the glowing pcmag review: ever wish you could "tear out" a piece of a web site like you would a magazine or newspaper articl... entertainment yahoo! answers - yahoo building communities again? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago yahoo!'s strength has always been its ability to build communities, and it looks like they're back on form with the release of yahoo! answers beta. launched a few hours ago, yahoo! answers is a question and answer service that anyone can use. unlike ... entertainment google video to become a content marketplace? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago fast company now has a post about google's plan for google video - it looks like they're trying to build a marketplace where user-generated videos can be bought, sold and licensed. and since revenue sharing is becoming one of my favorite topics, i co... entertainment on business models for web 2.0 written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago dion hinchcliffe recently wrote about the need for new business models for web 2.0, presenting us with this great diagram of the current solutions: personally, i think the same business models hold true whether it's web 1.0, 2.0 or anything else. i c... entertainment jots - more social bookmarking! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago steve rubel points to yet another social bookmarking site today - jots. he also rounds up the current contenders for the social bookmarking throne: spurl, furl, simpy, blinklist, connotea, my web 2.0, de.lirio.us, and del.icio.us. jots appears to be ... entertainment yahoo.icio.us - yahoo acquires del.icio.us! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago it's official - yahoo has acquired del.icio.us! from the del.icio.us blog: we’re proud to announce that del.icio.us has joined the yahoo! family. together we’ll continue to improve how people discover, remember and share on the internet, with a big e... entertainment exclusive - yahoo.icio.us reveals new logo! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago so the news just broke on yahoo's acquisition of del.icio.us. could this be the new logo? do my mad skillz need more work? you decide! :)... entertainment microsoft will pay users to search, says bill gates written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago is this for real? infoworld is reporting that bill gates wants to pay users a percentage of the ad revenues from search. from the infoworld article: microsoft corp. will share a part of its advertising revenues from its search engine with users, the ... entertainment myvideokaraoke - social sing alongs written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago robin good just pinged me about a wacky project of his: myvideokaraoke. he describes it as "my little effort at having fun while applying what i have learned from the web". robin is a grand master of blogging - is he a musical genius too? umm...no co... entertainment favoor and eskobo - more ajax desktops. really. no kidding. i'm not making this up. it's like they're breeding or something... written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago now this is just getting silly. a few days back techcrunch posted about eskobo, another ajax desktop with the standard modules for news, weather and feeds. and then came word of yet another customizable web desktop by the name of favoor. both apps ar... ← previous 1 2 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.