we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for july 2012 entertainment brazilian prisoners bike to reduce sentence, charge batteries written by geekosystem over 7 years ago apparently, prison can be pretty boring. that's on top of it being, well, prison. plus you've got all that potential labor just sitting around doing nothing terribly productive. why not utilize it? that's what santa rita do sapucai prison in brazil i... entertainment overly attached girlfriend returns with medley of stalker songs written by brian anthony hernandez over 7 years ago she's back! the face of the overly attached girlfriend meme has resurfaced with a lip-dubbed medley of popular songs that have lyrics sometimes deemed creepy. new youtube sensation laina walker, however, makes the tunes even more frightening with wit... entertainment top 10 pinterest pins this week written by jeremy cabalona over 7 years ago our 10 favorite pinterest pins this week are truly a visual feast for the eyes. pinterest is a hub for some of the most striking images and useful tips on the web. this week, we came across beautiful and surreal locations -- including a gorgeous purp... tech with nexus 7, google finally gets android tablets right [review] written by pete pachal over 7 years ago this, android fans, is the tablet you've been waiting for. google's nexus 7 finally nails it for android tablets. it has an inviting design, excellent software, and the right components inside to keep it all running. even better, it has the right pri... entertainment photobooth proposal becomes adorable youtube video written by christine erickson over 7 years ago an adorable photobooth proposal between a couple received an additional unexpected surprise -- the photobooth owner posted it on youtube. according to reddit user nazzerdawk, who shared the video after proposing to his girlfriend, the couple was cont... tech happy birthday walkman: 10 cassette cases for your iphone written by amy-mae elliott over 7 years ago to mark the anniversary of the sony walkman, launched in japan on july 1, 1979, we have collated a retro selection of cassette-themed cases for the walkman of today: the iphone. while audio cassettes may have had their downsides (remember trying to r... entertainment cory booker, internet's favorite mayor, creates media site for teens written by alex fitzpatrick over 7 years ago cory booker, the socially savvy mayor of newark, n.j., who has used twitter to help residents burrow out of foot-deep snow and whose other heroics have spawned the "super mayor" meme, is co-founding a media startup aimed at the millennial generation ... entertainment 13 questions to ask during your next interview written by jayne mattson over 7 years ago jayne mattson is senior vice president at keystone associates, a leading career management and transition services consulting firm in boston. mattson specializes in helping mid-to-senior level individuals in new career exploration, networking strateg... entertainment turn any tv into a smart one with this gadget written by samantha murphy kelly over 7 years ago wish you could turn any tv into a smart one? a new gadget called the pocket tv will convert your television into a giant android tablet. the device is a small microcomputer that plugs into your screen's hdmi sport. pocket tv runs on android 4.0 and a... entertainment space station astronauts return to earth aboard soyuz capsule written by space.com over 7 years ago after half a year living on the international space station, three astronauts safely returned to earth sunday (july 1) aboard a russian-built space capsule. the soyuz spacecraft landed on central asian steppes of kazakhstan at 4:14 a.m. edt (0414 gmt... tech apple bids farewell to paid cloud service mobileme written by samantha murphy kelly over 7 years ago apple retired on sunday its paid cloud service mobileme, following a several year process led by former ceo steve jobs to pack up the product for good. the company announced last year that it would be closing mobileme and urged users to move their ac... entertainment 8 reasons why summer is a great time to job hunt written by patty coffey over 7 years ago patty coffey is a partner in the information technology permanent division at at winter, wyman, the largest and one of the most recognized staffing organizations in the northeast. find out more on the winter, wyman blog or follow @winterwyman on twit... world 'leap second bug' causes glitches for linkedin, reddit, more written by samantha murphy kelly over 7 years ago after an extra second was added to the clock on saturday to better align it with the earth's rotation schedule, a whole slew of websites from linkedin, foursquare and reddit to mozlila, yelp and gawker sites experienced technical issues. known as a "... entertainment stanford's most popular major is now computer science written by the atlantic over 7 years ago if you want to get a good sense of an era's history and culture, one good place to start is that era's most popular college majors. take, for example, the subjects students studied at stanford university between 1955 and today. in the muscular years ... entertainment top 10 twitter pics this week written by jeremy cabalona over 7 years ago we looked at more than 54 million twitter pics this week, and these gorgeous and wacky photos were the 10 most popular. each week we round up the top 10 twitter pics by statistical popularity to see what tweeters were sharing over the past week. this... entertainment 24 tumblrs to make you laugh out loud written by christine erickson over 7 years ago tumblr is a goldmine for niche blogs, normally involving creative uses of photoshop, topical memes and just plain silliness. though the micro-blogging platform has ways to discover content, with more than 62 million blogs, it's nearly impossible to f... entertainment top 10 tech this week [pics] written by christina warren over 7 years ago who says summer is a slow time for tech? the past week provided us with a cavalcade of products and accessories for us to drool over on top 10 tech this week. seriously, this was a big week for consumer tech. google unveiled a mountain of swag on att... culture hilarious 'youtube complaints' video stars internet celebrities written by samantha murphy kelly over 7 years ago what happens when you create a youtube video that features some of the most popular viral characters to ever hit the web? it goes viral, of course. online parody group barely political posted a video on saturday that pokes fun at the biggest complain... entertainment silicon valley investor's tv special looks for next mark zuckerberg written by samantha murphy kelly over 7 years ago tech investor peter thiel is looking for 20 of the biggest innovators in silicon valley under the age of 20, offering $100,000 to contestants so they can further develop their projects. in a cnbc special called "20 under 20: transforming tomorrow," t... entertainment 8 top comments on mashable this week written by nina frazier hansen over 7 years ago this week, our readers told haters of oreo's new campaign to stuff it, gawked (and geeked-out) over the google i/o keynote and fretted about facebook’s privacy terms -- again. clearly, there was much for our mashable audience to discuss this week. th... entertainment remembering nora ephron: 5 classic movie moments written by allegra tepper over 7 years ago celebrated screenwriter nora ephron passed away on tuesday night in manhattan after a battle with leukemia. she was 71. hollywood colleagues and devoted audiences have taken to the web this week, posting remembrances and tributes to the scribe who pa... entertainment augmented reality shopping coming soon written by clickz over 7 years ago ibm research announced the prototype of a mobile app that can act as a personal shopping assistant in stores. the mobile app could be branded and provided by retailers. consumers would download the app and then input products they're shopping for and... culture how we'll really use google glass [sunday comics] written by lauren indvik over 7 years ago it's fun to imagine what life would be like with google glass over our eyes: how differently our environments would appear when perpetually augmented by a digital overlay, how seamlessly we would be able to receive, modify and transmit information wi... entertainment apple pays chinese company $60 million for 'ipad' name written by stan schroeder over 7 years ago apple has agreed to pay chinese company shenzhen proview technology $60 million for the name "ipad," the new york times reports. apple has bought the ipad name in various countries from a proview affiliate in taiwan for $55,000 in 2009. however, a ch... entertainment media player vlc now available for android as beta written by stan schroeder over 7 years ago videolan's popular media player vlc, known for being able to crunch almost any media file without the need for external codecs, has made its way to android in beta form. vlc plays "most multimedia files as well as discs, devices, and network streamin... entertainment mashable weekend recap: 18 stories you might have missed written by stan schroeder over 7 years ago just in case you missed our weekend full of fun, frolic and serious reporting, we've gathered it all together for you all in one handy place. it's the weekend recap, giving you all the news, features and helpful hints -- presented in the form of a co... entertainment watch these hot wheels cars do a double loop in real life [video] written by todd wasserman over 7 years ago for every kid who has ever played with hot wheels, this video is like a crazy dream come true. drivers tanner foust and greg tracy conquered the 60-foot double loop over the weekend at the x games in los angeles. as this video explains, to achieve th... entertainment older americans love new tech but hate to admit it [study] written by zoe fox over 7 years ago older americans love new technology. they just might not be admitting it to you -- or themselves. though 88.5% of americans over 45 consider themselves slow to adopt new technologies, 89% will embrace something new when it's better than what they cur... entertainment uk hotel swaps bibles for kindles written by todd wasserman over 7 years ago and on the second day in july, the hotel indigo newcastle replaced its paper bibles with amazon kindles... the uk-based hotel hasn't yet decided this is good, though. that determination will take a fortnight. in the meantime, visitors who check in wi... entertainment esquire pitches new issue with movie-style trailer [video] written by lauren indvik over 7 years ago no new film nor tv show is released without a trailer and soon, the same may be said about everything from books and games to fashion shows and magazine installments. esquire is among the latest to try its hand at promotional trailers, having release... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 55 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.