we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for october 2013 u.s. scientists discover how to turn off hunger -- with lasers written by geekosystem over 6 years ago if you’re interested in losing weight and aren’t afraid of having your brain controlled by a laser beam through your eyeballs, then science has the perfect solution for you. in a recent study involving mice, scientists think they have discovered the ... entertainment coach answers reporter's iphone after awkward interruption written by sam laird over 6 years ago an awkward moment turns funny at this college football press conference. entertainment shazam partners with jimmy kimmel to give fans freebies written by adam popescu over 6 years ago the music identification and discovery service shazam announced a partnership with jimmy kimmel live on monday, connecting fans of the late-night show with additional content, including some free, exclusive audio downloads. on monday's episode, when ... culture yogurt the pirate dog is your newest instagram obsession written by annie colbert over 6 years ago ahoy, instagram mateys -- shake the paw of yogurt the pirate dog. the rest of your filtered feed can walk the plank because this 5-year-old chihuahua doesn't need two eyes to recognize her cuteness. yogurt's human friend posted the first photo of thi... world nasa won't leave astronauts stranded in space if shutdown occurs written by adario strange over 6 years ago in the midst of a possible government shutdown tuesday, u.s. president barack obama delivered a speech on monday filled with warnings about the possible consequences -- one of which would be the furlough of most of nasa’s 18,000 employees. fuelled by... world social media spam increased 355% in first half of 2013 written by lorenzo franceschi-bicchierai over 6 years ago as email clients get better at detecting and filtering spam, spammers are moving to social networks, where they have better chances of going undetected. that's why, on a typical social media account, spam has risen 355% in the first half of 2013, acc... u.s. u.s. government shutdown: who to follow on twitter written by sam laird over 6 years ago as americans consider the ominous specter of a government shutdown, here's a list of twitter accounts that will keep you informed. tech wattpad is the most active social site you've never heard of written by adam popescu over 6 years ago eighteen million readers and writers around the world spend 4.5-billion minutes a month publishing, collaborating and skimming text on wattpad, the biggest under-the-radar e-literature community on the web. the toronto-based startup is a free publish... business shyp raises $2.1 million to take the pain out of shipping written by seth fiegerman over 6 years ago name: shyp one-liner pitch: shyp borrows from the uber playbook to make it easier for customers to ship random items. why it's taking off: users can scan an item they want to ship using shyp's app; then the startup sends over a driver to pick up the ... entertainment entire football team hugs local anchor after daughter's death written by sam laird over 6 years ago dom tiberi is a longtime sports anchor at columbus, ohio, station 10tv. his 21-year-old daughter maria was killed in an auto accident after her car hit a tractor trailer on sept. 17. world nasa goes low-tech: sends balloon to study comet ison written by eva recinos over 6 years ago as stargazers keep their hopes up for an awesome show from ison, dubbed the "comet of the century," a balloon nasa sent into space is intended to bring back more information about the celestial event. but this is not your average balloon. at 671 feet... tech delta pilots will use surface 2 tablets instead of flight bags written by skift over 6 years ago delta air lines announced monday that it would purchase up to 11,000 microsoft surface 2 tablets to replace pilots’ flight bags. starting with boeing 757 and boeing 767 aircraft, pilots on 700 planes will leave behind their 35-pound flight kit in fav... entertainment youtube announces the 'youtube music awards' show written by colin daileda over 6 years ago lady gaga, eminem and arcade fire are among the artists who will perform at the first youtube music awards, a new global event that will air live on youtube on nov. 3. google's 8-year-old video sharing service announced the 90-minute awards show mond... tech brewbot uses your iphone to help you brew beer written by emily price over 6 years ago brewing your own beer is a complicated and scientific process that requires patience and a bit of training. one company, however, is attempting to simplify the process with an appliance that automates home brewing. called brewbot, the device turns yo... world monitoring planet earth's 'heartbeat' written by livescience over 6 years ago the national ecological observatory is a network of more than 100 sensors located across the country that will give scientists an 'ekg' for planet earth, a crucial tool for monitoring environmental health in a changing global climate. image: kevin gi... culture viral video recap: must-watch memes of the week written by eva recinos over 6 years ago what's your daily commute like? probably nothing like it was for folks in a couple of the videos in this week's viral video recap. new york commuters probably didn't expect the orchestra that set up camp on the sidewalk behind an empty conductor's st... world can your iphone double as a cutting-edge earthquake detector? written by the atlantic over 6 years ago when you grow up in california, "earthquake drills" are as common as fire drills. a teacher announces the presence of a quake. she may simulate, unconvincingly, the shaking of walls and windows and shelves. at that point, and as quickly as possible, ... tech bittorrent is building a server-free, secure messaging client written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago bittorrent, the company that brought us the bittorrent peer-to-peer data transfer protocol, is building a server-less messaging client. it's based on distributed technology -- messages are never stored on a server, meaning they're safe from data brea... tech 30 shades of pink iphone 5 cases written by amy-mae elliott over 6 years ago while the iphone itself has now gone from black to white to multicolor, one color remains a massively popular choice for cases -- good, old-fashioned pink. whether you fancy fuchsia, are mad for magenta, go crazy over cerise or think rose is rad, wit... culture 'drunk mailman' wreaks havoc to prank passersby written by sam laird over 6 years ago the internet's latest hit prank video involves a boozy "mailman" brawling with his boss in front of astonished bystanders. tech 7 data viz sites to inspire your creative eye written by denise lu over 6 years ago in the age of data overload, "big data" and "data visualization" are major buzzwords, and they'll likely grow even bigger as we gather more information on a daily basis. with data visualization on the rise, we rounded up seven sites to help you find ... culture 10 ways vegetables can satisfy your sweet tooth written by laura vitto over 6 years ago when it comes to the internet's favorite drool-worthy foods, the rule of thumb is typically the meatier, the better. it's impossible to surf imgur for more than a minute without crossing a picture of bacon-wrapped anything. in honor of world vegetari... entertainment 10 extravagant accessories for techie fashionistas written by rebecca hiscott over 6 years ago in case you haven't heard, the iphone 5s and the samsung galaxy s4 now come in gold. ooh la la! in the spirit of all things bling, we've rounded up a few more ways to exhaust your wallet. whether you're looking to glam up your tech arsenal or you jus... entertainment marching band fail leads to hilarious six-tuba crash written by sam laird over 6 years ago six tuba players go over like a line of dominoes in this comical video. culture 14 ways 'cool runnings' is still relevant to your life written by molly horan over 6 years ago cool runnings released 20 years ago on tuesday, but the jamaican bobsled saga's anniversary can remind you of more than your ever-increasing age. the movie's lessons (and catchphrases) relate to you more than you might expect. if you don't see the co... culture 11 animated children's films more devastating than any disney movie written by molly horan over 6 years ago disney movies are often cited for their dark, childhood-shattering moments. some people are still recovering from the death of bambi's mother. but watching a deer, a lion, or baby gorilla meet their untimely ends is just not as troubling as having to... business 10 predictions about the future of ecommerce written by scott gerber over 6 years ago personalized shopping is changing the way we find, buy and recommend products to our friends already. but from a business point of view, what's going to capture shoppers' attention next? we asked 10 founders to share what they think the future of per... tech samsung galaxy note 3: so much phone, so much power written by pete pachal over 6 years ago the samsung galaxy note 3 is the best samsung phone i've ever used. it's big, it's powerful and it finally turns the s pen -- the small stylus that goes hand-in-hand with the galaxy note line -- into something useful. it's even better than the galaxy... world obamacare explained: how to use the internet for health care written by fran berkman over 6 years ago if it's for sale, you can probably get in on the internet. health care is the newest commodity to become widely available to united states residents for purchase online -- but you won't find it on amazon or ebay. as a part of the affordable care act,... tech facebook updates graph search and other news you need to know written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of "first to know," a series in which we keep you in the know on what's happening in the digital world. today, we're looking at three particularly interesting stories. google has installed its first android app vendi... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 56 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.