we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for april 2006 entertainment email harvester launches, turns down $750 million offer written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago it's been almost 4 months since i first proposed my idea for email harvester (tm). after literally minutes of hard labor and over $100 million in vc funding, i'm happy to confirm that email harvester (tm) is now in private beta. using advanced web 2.... entertainment mypicklist - product recommendations 2.0 written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago mypicklist is a pretty smart idea. as modern consumers, we tend to trust recommendations from our peers more than company propaganda (aka: advertising). as a result, we're increasingly embracing new forms of social commerce. the first wave was led by... entertainment everystockphoto and yotophoto - creative commons photo galleries written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago everystockphoto and yotophoto are both aiming to solve the same problem: finding creative commons licensed images on the web. the filler: everystockphoto.com is a privately owned search engine for creative commons photos, located in vancouver, bc. we... entertainment wikio - social news hybrid written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago i'm going to infuriate you again and write about a company that hasn't launched yet. wikio is a news site combining features from google news, digg and technorati. the french version is in private beta, and expansion is on the cards. from the site: w... entertainment zimbio - people powered portals written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago update (may 2nd 2006): zimbio plans to launch publicly tomorrow. zoozio, which looked for a while to be another lame ajax start page, has rebranded itself as zimbio, and is currently testing its latest concept: user-generated portals. we're talking s... entertainment jumpcut - more video mashups written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago mike points to another impressive video-remixing service today: jumpcut. as i said in my review of eyespot, video remixing is likely to be a huge trend among members of gen c. two unreleased services - dabble and motionbox - are also making moves in ... entertainment inform.com - still failing written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago inform.com launched back in october 2005, accompanied by a hype-laden ny times article and the revelation that it employs 55 people (!). mike called it like he saw it, then followed up with some damage control - frankly, he was right the first time. ... entertainment wikihow - community-powered how-to manual written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago looks like i missed this one back in january - wikihow is a collaborative how-to manual from the people behind ehow. but while ehow only allows staff members to write articles, wikihow takes more web 2.0 approach. in the new-school wiki way, they're ... entertainment zlio gets revenue sharing just right written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago social commerce is hot - and french company zlio (aff) is doing everything right in this space. like mypicklist (reviewed last week), zlio allows users to choose a set of products they like and create their own personal page. users can promote this p... entertainment dabbling with dabble written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago looks like they're letting some of the cool people into dabble. (luckily, someone mistook me for one of the cool people again!) the service is taking a shot at video-bookmarking, as i mentioned a few months back. from the site: dabble is a video sear... entertainment google calendar impresses written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago google has released some half-baked products recently, but in the case of the long-awaited google calendar, i think they've done a decent job. it's a well-rounded, fully-featured product, and the usability is actually very good for a change. the onli... entertainment social search heats up: microsoft and eurekster in talks written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago interesting news in the social space - businessweek reports that microsoft is in talks to buy or partner with two-year old startup eurekster, creators of the social search tool swicki. they're also interested in creating a social question and answer ... entertainment interactive voices - voice over marketplace written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago interactive voices isn't quite what i hoped it would be, but it's interesting nonetheless. the service is trying to be a "voice over marketplace" - a place where you can find voice talents for your radio commercials, radio ads, audiobooks, cartoons a... entertainment zunafish - the return of online swaps written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago zunafish is bringing back an old idea: online swaps. the trades are limited to certain types of items and each trade costs $1. from the nytimes article: the site...trades only one-for-one items within the same category — cd's, dvd's, vhs tapes, video... entertainment podcastready - easy podcast downloads written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago podcastready is a new service that could provide an alternative to itunes - but not in the way you'd expect. instead of providing another desktop app, the "mypodder" service installs directly on your mp3 player and syncs with the portal at podcastrea... entertainment the definitive directory of web 2.0 companies? written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago over the last few months there's been a feeling that we need a centralized database of web 2.0 apps. i've always intended to try this out with my weblist blog, but other projects have a habit of getting in the way. luckily, lots of enterprising folks... entertainment sabifoo - im to rss written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago here's another crazy (but interesting) idea. sabifoo allows you to send instant messages to an rss feed - just add the sabifoo user to your buddy list and ping him(?) whenever you want to create a new entry. from the site: sabifoo makes it easier tha... entertainment feeding the myspace beast written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago believe me: you can't build the next myspace. you may think you can, but you can't. and don't go thinking you can win by having more features: social software doesn't work like that. in the same way that you can't beat ebay by charging lower fees, my... entertainment ziki - your digital life in a box written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago ziki is a new social site that will - among other things - aggregate all your digital content in one place. this week they released the first part of their grand plan - ziki people. the blurb: if you publish content on the web (and you’re a person!),... entertainment shopwiki - shopping search, the wiki way written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago shopwiki, which launched today, is a shopping search engine crossed with a wiki. the service crawls the web for product listings, then allows users to write reviews in a collaborative wiki format. from the site: shopwiki is a shopping search engine d... entertainment yuku - social network and forums written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago here's another test of the everythingitis theory: yuku. if you remember, i'm hypothesizing that the "everything under one roof" idea (aka the portal strategy) won't be too successful for startups - specialized services that weave their way into the f... entertainment socialpicks - social stock picks written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago socialpicks allows you to pick stocks and share stock information with others. it's like stockdigg (now called digstock, seemingly), but taken to the next level. from my inbox: socialpicks is social stock picks & research. socialpicks enables stock i... entertainment fluxiom - digital asset management written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago not social, but still sweet - fluxiom is an asset management system for businesses. it's hard to make "managing your digital assets" fun, but the fluxiom guys just about get away with it. the blurb: fluxiom makes it easy to organize and share your di... entertainment plum - a mild case of everythingitis written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago mr crunch had at look at plum a few days ago, a soon-to-launch bookmarking service with approximately a gazillion features. from the site: plum lets you put all the stuff you care about, stumble across or need in one place. collect and save from the ... entertainment rapleaf - the return of portable reputations written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago silicon beat reports on rapleaf, a new portable reputation service. of course it hasn't launched yet, but i thought it would be fun (or if not fun, at least tolerable) to revisit this increasingly important idea. from the post: wants to give people a... entertainment new memedigger: blogmemes written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago blogmemes is a new memedigger with a sweet design: this project is a community space, similar to digg.com and based on our own engine: akarru. blogmemes is oriented towards news in the english-speaking community. spanish, portugese and french version... entertainment sphere blog search engine goes live - at last! written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago update (2nd may 2006): sphere has finally launched publicly today. test it out at sphere.com, or read mike's review. after riding the hype curve for many months, it's great to see that sphere will soon be alive and kicking (launches in a few hours, i... entertainment gliffy is spiffy! written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago gliffy is a new web-based app for creating sharable diagrams. it's very nicely done. even as a personal mindmapping tool, it's far superior to anything else out there (mayomi, for instance), but the addition of near real-time collaboration puts gliff... entertainment project opus - indie music community written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago here's another good reason to stop buying useless, drm-laden music from the labels. projectopus is a music community along the lines of the excellent purevolume, connecting fans and artists at a local level. the service seems to be free for everyone ... entertainment ebay express - ebay made easy! written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago ebay express launched this week. as i mentioned previously, the idea is to simplify the buying process by offering new products at a fixed price. from the site: with ebay express it's faster and easier than ever to breeze through all your shopping. f... ← previous 1 2 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.