we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for june 2007 entertainment sporkk, warner's youtube, google checkout mobile, bbc second life, joost deals, revolution health written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago sporkk - sporkk is another web 2.0 parody. choice quote: "traditional sporking is obviously dead. sporkk is the purple cow that will tell you when to sporkk when everyone else is zagging. in other words, sporkk is the new big." (via) warner's youtube... entertainment spyjax: your browser history is not private! written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago this is a scary use of ajax: to view the browser history of all your site's visitors. spyjax exploits a simple feature of all browsers: changing the color of links for sites you've visited. a piece of javascript on a webpage can view the color of the... entertainment mobicious is a mobile directory written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago mobicious is an online directory for all things mobile. search for videos, photos, ringtones, games and other applications that can be used on your mobile phone, including websites, google maps, a mini opera browser, and more. images and videos can b... entertainment keibi technologies raises $6m in series b written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago keibi technologies, the company that assists businesses with the management of online user-generated content, has raised $6 million in its second round of funding led by catamount ventures and hunt ventures. keibi was launched by paul remer, the form... entertainment new look for bebo written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago a new look for bebo today: the red interface is gone and replaced by a minimalist light blue design. the content and profiles are mostly unchanged. it's probably a smart move: content is king, and the less distracting interface elements there are, th... entertainment feedburner officially acquired by google written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago it's official. feedburner has been acquired by google. the rss management and advertising service is no longer a target for acquisition, but is part of the google family, much to everyone's delight. it only made sense for google to buy feedburner, as... entertainment soapbox reopens with audible magic protection for user content written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago msn's soapbox is set to reopen to the public today, after being closed to new users back in march in order to implement and test out proactive filtering, utilizing audible magic for digital fingerprinting. once microsoft announced its willingness to ... entertainment best buy and blockbuster looking to enter movie download service written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago best buy and blockbuster are both reportedly looking to enter the movie download business, and are working on a deal with lionsgate films, though there has been no official word on best buy's plans. both best buy and blockbuster have been reportedly ... entertainment stumbleporn - stumbleupon for porn written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago a new toolbar is now available for firefox users, and it will help you find porn. stumbleporn is a new service that will let you "stumble upon" the best, user-rated porn sites on the web. i'll admit i didn't install this one to try it out, but it app... entertainment travelpod launches its facebook application written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago travelpod, the travel blogging service, has created a facebook application. this is the first travel blog to create an application for facebook. the application has not yet been added to the facebook directory, but you can find it here. you can now s... entertainment yigg.de, the german digg clone, gets funded written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago yigg.de, the german clone of digg, claims to have raised a round of funding led by baytech venture capital and angel investor rolan metzger, for an undisclosed amount. yigg launched in march of 2006, and is among the first of the digg clones in germa... entertainment 7 ways to stick it to the riaa written by stan schroeder almost 13 years ago -- see also: my soul, and 10 other things that google owns -- now that emi's catalog is finally available drm-free on itunes and the whole world is talking about how cool drm-free music is, the riaa must be feeling mighty stupid. after all, they've a... entertainment goodstorm widgets to power modern-day "we are the world" campaign written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago amnesty international is starting a campaign called instant karma to raise money for darfur, the war-torn area of sudan, using goodstorm music widgets to sell re-recorded john lennon songs. the widget will be used on social networking sites like mysp... entertainment latino aim pages beta launched written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago aol latino has launched latino aim pages, the social network built on its instant messaging platform. the customization options that have been created specifically for the latino market is in hopes that a unique online space can be carved for hispani... entertainment lg15 brings viewers into live episode written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago the creators of lonelygirl15 have organized an in-person event for the popular video blogger, creating a multi-platform approach for fans to solve puzzles, chat with characters in a chat room at lg15's website, and inviting fans to a seminar location... entertainment slacker raises another $40m in series b funding written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago slacker, the digital music service that has executives from iriver, musicmatch and rio, has reportedly raised $40 million in series b funding, which comes on the heels of a series a round that closed with $14.5 million in funding earlier this year. t... entertainment mahalo and friends: 10 people powered search engines written by ben gold almost 13 years ago sure, google is great. i use it everyday and there is a good chance you do too, but their algorithms are not perfect, and sometimes your results are not quite what you were looking for. well, that's were people-powered search comes in. search results... entertainment tribute community raises $250k in funding written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago respectance, the site looking to create a new tradition for honoring those that have passed, has reportedly raised $250 thousand in venture capital, and is expected to announce another round of funding next month. the company has been backed by a pro... entertainment banned venezuelan channel turns to youtube written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago an opposition-aligned, venezuelan television channel rctv, creator of the news show "the observer", has been banned from broadcasting over the airwaves by president hugo chavez, and has taken its show to the internet, on youtube. about a week ago, "t... entertainment my soul, and 10 other things that google owns written by adam ostrow almost 13 years ago the headlines just don’t stop for google. but with the now complete acquisition of feedburner, are there any parts of our online lives that don’t reside somewhere within the googleplex? through acquisitions and a few thousands of the world’s best eng... entertainment kevin rose: digg expanding to images, restaurant and product reviews written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago see also: my soul, and 10 other things that google owns -- on friday, kevin rose spoke via video link at thenextweb conference in amsterdam, outlining digg's plans for expansion (update: see video below). the good news is that they plan to add images... entertainment thembid is lendingtree for classifieds written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago thembid is a new classifieds system that lets businesses bid over the services you request. with thembid, you can search requests, or post some of your own. when a business comes across a request that it might be interested in, it can post a bid and ... entertainment zooomr mark iii launches...again written by ben gold almost 13 years ago update: and....it's down. --- well, it took a lot longer than zooomr founder kristopher tate expected, but the little photo-sharing site that could has finally launched its version iii. after a much hyped launch, the site went down with server troubl... entertainment google earth releases updated imagery & resolution written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago google earth has just released new imagery, meaning the images we see from google earth's satellite shots are clearer and have better mapping techniques. included in the improvements are special color mapping techniques and the addition of high resol... entertainment x me creates the first native facebook application written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago x me is the first native facebook application built specifically for the facebook platform, and it's had quite a ride in its still-short existence. x me lets you replace the "poke" option for other facebook members with the word of your choice. so no... entertainment google launches directions api written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago google has launched a directions api at its developer day, allowing third-party sites to offer directions directly on their site. the api features include the ability to request directions between a pair of points or a longer sequence of points, and ... entertainment love 2.0 (video) written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago featured today on youtube: love 2.0, a tale of unrequited love told through the medium of web 2.0 services (embedded below). look out for references to digg, myspace, facebook, youtube, del.icio.us and the digg key. a full understanding of the lyrics... entertainment street view: these panties have been removed due to a privacy violation written by stan schroeder almost 13 years ago most web services let you decide what information to publish...not so with google maps street view, which can capture embarrassing or incriminating events with no chance of having the images removed. you'd better hope your butt cheeks don't get expos... entertainment bliin is gps-based live blogging written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago bliin is a live community that lets you share images, audio, text and video from wherever you are, and it's shared with the world on the bliin google map. you'll have to install the bliin software in order to be a fully active member, and bliin requi... entertainment apple's iphone to hit stores june 29th? written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago apple has made a type of an announcement regarding the release date for its iphone, setting the date as june 29th. during a commercial on cbs's 60 minutes, apple indicated that the iphone will be available for purchase on june 29th. this hasn't been ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 16 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.