we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for march 2015 apple&acirc; image: james pikover, mashable tech the latest mac mini is low-priced, but doesn't skimp on power written by james pikover about 5 years ago apple's cheapest mac is actually a very capable little computer with plenty of power. strong thunderstorms prompted flooding throughout the miami metropolitan area. image: @noelle_thear world miami under water: severe thunderstorms flood streets written by brittany levine about 5 years ago slow-moving thunderstorms dumped up to 8 inches of rain in the miami metropolitan area saturday. image: corbis sebastian pfuetze business regain your dignity after these embarrassing new job blunders written by the daily muse about 5 years ago gaffes and blunders at a new job can catch you off guard if you're not prepared. jackie and remy made big moves in episodes 10 and 11, but a fuzzy ball of joy trumped them all. image: david giesbrecht for netflix entertainment 'house of cards' season 3 delivers the moment you've been waiting for written by sandra gonzalez about 5 years ago hint: we're going a little nutty over this. and beware, major spoilers ahead. image: flickr, paul rysz business 6 predictions about the future of video and job interviewing written by josh tolan about 5 years ago in 2025 video interviews and job offers might be the norm. world these buddhist warrior monks excel at kung fu written by elizabeth pierson about 5 years ago shaolin monks show off their skills in london a bio-diesel bus takes yahoo workers from yahoo headquarters in sunnyvale, calif., jan. 28, 2008. image: paul sakuma/associated press business tired of being underpaid, apple, yahoo bus drivers vote to unionize written by brittany levine about 5 years ago facebook's drivers did the same thing in november. image: silver screen collection/hulton archive/getty images retronaut a young marilyn monroe with her mother at the beach written by chris wild about 5 years ago three-year-old marilyn monroe (born norma jean) plays in the sand. image: mashable, luke leonard tech hp's spectre x360 is the sexiest 2-in-1 ultrabook convertible ever written by raymond wong about 5 years ago hp's new thin and light spectre x360 is one stunning and powerful ultrabook/tablet convertible. lg watch urbane image: william sands/mashable tech lg watch urbane comes in two, vastly different flavors written by stan schroeder about 5 years ago at the mobile world congress, lg launched two smartwatches, which sound similar but are actually quite different. author j.k. rowling image: dan hallman/invision/ap/associated press entertainment a brief history of female authors with male pen names written by yohana desta about 5 years ago from the brontë sisters to j.k. rowling, numerous female authors have used ambiguous pen names. people carry a banner of opposition leader boris nemtsov, who was killed friday, feb. 27, 2015 near the kremlin, with words reading &quot;heroes never die!&quot; in moscow, russia, sunday, march 1, 2015. image: evgeny feldman, mashable world thousands mourn boris nemtsov in march to murder scene in moscow written by christopher miller about 5 years ago thousands of people are gathering in central moscow on sunday to remember boris nemtsov. image: mashable, william sands tech the new huawei watch looks less like a computer and more like a watch written by samantha murphy kelly about 5 years ago the huawei watch is a gorgeous smartwatch you'd be proud to wear. image: mashable, william sands tech the huawei device keeping a low profile: a razor-thin mediapad x2 phablet written by samantha murphy kelly about 5 years ago huawei calls the mediapad x2 the world's slimmed 7-inch tablet. image: mashable, williams sands tech huawei's talkband b2 is a fitness tracker that you can wear to the office written by samantha murphy kelly about 5 years ago huawei's talkband b2 is a wearable for business professionals who don't want to wear a sporty wristband in the board room. image: ifttt tech how to get started with ifttt's do camera app written by amy-mae elliott about 5 years ago the do camera app works with your iphone or android phone's camera to run recipes and share imagery straight from the app. image: mashable/vicky leta entertainment ramp up your tumblr skills with these 21 keyboard shortcuts written by amy-mae elliott about 5 years ago these keyboard shortcuts will make the time you spend on tumblr more efficient. video: youtube, saturday night live entertainment dakota johnson literally can't even with her coworkers right now in 'snl' sketch written by laura vitto about 5 years ago on 'snl,' a group of obnoxious office mates literally can't even with their co-worker margo, who has two broken arms. video: youtube, saturday night live entertainment the ladies of 'snl' think you should 'say what you wanna say' written by laura vitto about 5 years ago they took sara bareilles' advice to be honest to heart in this musical digital short. entertainment 15 spectacular views of argentina's diverse landscape written by brian koerber about 5 years ago argentina is as diverse as it is large. zte grand s3 image: zte tech zte grand s3 smartphone can be unlocked with an eye scan written by stan schroeder about 5 years ago zte grand s3 now comes with an interesting new feature: eye-based biometric authentication. image: hulu saturday night live entertainment 'snl' skewers internet celebrities who don't get net neutrality written by laura vitto about 5 years ago the sketch skewers internet celebrities who, for all their talk of freedom on the web, have no idea what net neutrality is or what it means for them. the htc re grip is the company's first wearable: a smart band aimed at runners and gym-goers. image: mashable, william sands tech htc targets fitness fanatics with its first wearable, the htc re grip written by pete pachal about 5 years ago the htc re grip is the company's first wearable: a smart band aimed at runners and gym-goers. the htc one m9 carries over the design principles of the previous model, although the camera has radically changed. image: mashable, william sands tech htc goes back to basics with its new flagship, the htc one m9 written by pete pachal about 5 years ago htc's new flagship, the htc one m9, ditches ultrapixels and depth sensors for a more traditional 20-megapixel camera, but it keeps the same winning design. alcatel idol 3 comes in two flavors: with a 5.5-inch and a 4.7-inch screen. image: alcatel tech alcatel's idol 3 lets you make calls while holding it upside down written by stan schroeder about 5 years ago alcatel's idol 3 offers a lot of bang for your buck, as well as a pretty unique feature: you can hold it upside down and still make calls. world 'heroes never die!': russians honor opposition leader boris nemtsov in massive rally written by anita li about 5 years ago tens of thousands of people turned out in central moscow on sunday to march in honor of opposition leader and democratic crusader boris nemtsov, who was killed by an unknown assailant friday night. video: youtube, joseph colangelo culture dad builds awesome backyard sledding track for his kids written by brian koerber about 5 years ago future olympians in training. htc re vive image: htc tech htc partners up with valve to unveil ambitious virtual reality headset written by stan schroeder about 5 years ago it's called the htc re vive. tech the samsung galaxy s6 is here and has a hot brother, the galaxy s6 edge written by pete pachal about 5 years ago samsung has unveiled its new flagship smartphone, the galaxy s6. but this time it's accompanied by a cooler, better-looking brother: the galaxy s6 edge. the samsung galaxy s6 edge (shown), along with the galaxy s6 will be the first smartphones to support samsung pay when it launches later this year. image: mashable, elizabeth pierson tech samsung pay takes on apple pay, but goes further written by lance ulanoff about 5 years ago the difference between the two mobile payment systems could be a game-changer. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 76 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.