we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for 2005 entertainment your digital memory: gmail drive extension written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago gmail, google's infinitely useful webmail service, currently has 2436 mb of storage - and counting. with all that storage available anywhere, anytime, people are increasingly emailing important information to themselves to keep it in one location. tr... entertainment machinima: video games meet cinema written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago here's a trend every early adopter should know about: machinima. this mashed-up genre uses video game engines to create movies, music videos and tv shows. examples? take a look at a few good g men (quicktime movie) - it's a recreation of the courtroo... entertainment iconize me: is digital content becoming more valuable? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago is this the end for street artists? probably not. nonetheless, tech crunch today profiles a site called iconize me!, which sells digital caricatures. from the site: "the concept behind iconize me! is pretty simple: after sending dv graphics an order ... entertainment paypal slashes fees for micropayments - still no sign of google wallet written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago red herring reports that paypal is slashing its fees for microtransactions, finally admitting that its charge for digital goods is just too high. "the digital content to be covered by the service would include video games, online greeting cards, news... entertainment restricted ownership: let's make lexmark ex-mark written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago when you buy something, you own it, right? wrong! recently we've seen drm and "copy protection" take over our music collections, putting ridiculous restrictions on what we can and can't do with the goods that we've already paid for. now lexmark has g... entertainment auto tagging, ojos and the rise of the participatory panopticon written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago the social software weblog points to an inspired new business idea - ojos (not yet in beta) will auto-tag your digital photos using face and text recognition: "i post only a subset of the digital photos i take to flickr...the rest of the shots… well,... entertainment yahoo! tech buzz game tests wisdom of crowds written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago i'm a big fan of the "wisdom of crowds". for those who haven't read it yet, the basic premise of the book is a large group of people makes better decisions than a small panel of experts. the author cites google's pagerank system as a prime example of... entertainment 7 things to do with your old ipod mini written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago goodbye ipod mini. hello ipod nano! but wait...what are you going to do with that old mini now that you've decided to fork out for an even cuter sliver of ipod goodness? chill, dude, i'm here to help you out... 1. use it as the world's most expensive... entertainment scoble lands channel 9 interview with bill gates! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago the headline says it all - robert scoble, grand master of the blogosphere, just posted an interview with billg. you can check out the entire 16 minute video at channel 9. no doubt this will be all around the blogosphere in a matter of hours. some int... entertainment million dollar homepage: the business idea i wish i'd had written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago the register reports that a uk student is trying to raise $1 million dollars by selling pixel-sized ads on his homepage. each pixel ad costs $1 and the minimum order is 100 pixels. the growth of this site is truly astounding - over 7,100 pixels have ... entertainment sergey and larry get a googlejet written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago i just love this graphic. from the raw feed: "google founders sergey brin and larry page are rumored to have bought a boeing 767 for their own personal and business use. when they use it for business, the company will reimburse them thousands of doll... entertainment is the ipod nano *too* thin? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago since its release on wednesday, internet users have been bombarded with images of the freakishly slim ipod nano, leading to a widespread delusion that other mp3 players are "too fat". concerned mothers were shocked to hear steve jobs proclaim "it's t... entertainment trendwatching updated: victorian children a bonus! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago trendwatching.com, arguably the best site in the world, has been updated. this month's consumer trend, minipreneurs, covers all my favorite topics: blogging, generation c, customer made, noveau niche, the long tail, personalisation, citizen journalis... entertainment fun things to do with google blog search beta written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago sergey, larry and their fellow googlers have done it again: google blog search beta is alive and kicking. and while the service is not without its quirks (like those irksome spam results) it's still a useful service. here are some fun things to do wi... entertainment is creative reporter insane? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago you might remember last week i posted about creative reporter, a service that pays you for a copy of your blog content, even if you keep it active on your own blog. i thought this sounded great, so i promised to test it out and report back to you. wh... entertainment i love qoop! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago if you've visited my linkedin profile since i put it up last week (and judging by the number of connections i have, no one has!), you'll know that i darned well can't get enough of on-demand printing and publishing. lulu.com is leading the way on thi... entertainment the mobile phone: the most important invention ever? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago so maybe that title is a tad hyperbolic (ok, so it's totally over the top), but i guarantee you'll find this idea as exciting as i do. see that grainy picture above? that's a nokia phone attached to a wireless keyboard. the benefit is only slight: it... entertainment flying spaghetti monster - the game! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago greetings, fellow pastafarians! the noodly master has done it again, delivering an amusement of such breathtaking magnitude that it surely must have been touched by his very own noodly appendage. that's right - flying spaghetti monster: the game has ... entertainment scoopt (finally) sells more citizen photos written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago scoopt, the uk company which pays citizens for (newsworthy) cameraphone snaps, wants everyone to know they've sold some more photos. moconews reports that they off-loaded a celebrity snap to the sun newspaper, while a tv station paid for videophone f... entertainment mashable to base! feeds not working! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago i have a suspicion that some of my feeds aren't working quite right. i have a feedburner feed, an rss feed and an atom feed. the rss2 feed is working, but the atom and feedburner feeds seem to be down. what's more, recent articles aren't showing up i... entertainment online storage: box.net rocks the kazbar! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago yesterday i had a chat via email with aaron levie from box.net. box provide 1gb of storage for $2.99 per month, which i think is pretty darned good! what's more, they don't charge a cent for bandwidth! there's a great podcast interview with aaron ove... entertainment netvibes - another funky ajax start page written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago ajax is infinitely cool, isn't it? tech crunch today has a review of netvibes, a personal homepage that features a really slick ajax interface. check it out! netvibes isn't alone as far as ajaxian start pages go: there's also microsoft's start.com, g... entertainment will gmail morph into an online storage service? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago yesterday i waxed lyrical about box.net, pointing out the importance of online storage to our mobile future. this reminded me of an article over on trendwatching.com called lifecaching, and this passage in particular: with google's gmail setting new ... entertainment creative reporter: not insane! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago i just got an email from torsten jacobi, who runs creative reporter, the site which pays you for your blog content. a few days ago i put up a post to say that the numbers on the creative reporter site didn't add up. luckily, these guys read blogs and... entertainment flickr, yahoo and the web's identity crisis written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago i'm sure you're aware of the problems with profiles over at flickr. in essence, yahoo wants to migrate all the flickr accounts over to the yahooid service. this is interesting because it seems to contradict common sense - wouldn't it be easier to hav... entertainment business week online covers web 2.0 written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago just a quick note to say that business week has an article up on web 2.0. there's nothing new here, but its good to see the big guys picking up on this stuff.... entertainment the blogger divide? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago i just read an insightful post over on this is going to be big!, discussing something you could call the "blogger divide". if you've been a blogger for any length of time, you've no doubt made countless friends in the blogosphere, learned a massive a... entertainment mashups page now on wikipedia! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago ivan pope of web api tracker just added a wikipedia entry on mashup (web application hybrid). now it's up to the web 2.0 community to fill this baby up! so what are you waiting for? go tell your friends!... entertainment slide - funky digital photo viewer written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago michael at techcrunch just posted about filmloop, a visual showcase for photos which is set for imminent launch. but here's something just as cool which showed up in the comments: slide is an application for "instantly sharing photos, videos, and oth... entertainment populicious and apis: is screenscraping a bad idea? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago dare obasanjo posted recently about populicio.us, the "popular links" service which was screenscraping data from del.icio.us. populicio.us has gone down (at least temporarily, it will probably relaunch soon) because del.icio.us changed the way it dis... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.