we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for november 2010 entertainment "def jam rapstar" raises the roof just short of greatness [review] written by samuel axon over 9 years ago singstar or guitar hero for hip hop and rap is an obvious idea, but nobody's done it right — or really at all — before today. now playstation 3, xbox 360 and nintendo wii gamers have def jam rapstar, an intriguing mash of hip hop sensibilities and so... entertainment turkey lifts youtube ban written by stan schroeder over 9 years ago turkey has lifted its ban on youtube after two years of blocking access to the popular video site. back in march 2007, a turkish court ordered youtube to be banned in that country because of offensive comments about the founding father of the turkish... entertainment samsung galaxy tab now available in the uk written by stan schroeder over 9 years ago as previously announced, the samsung galaxy tab is now available for purchase in the uk. the tablet is available at a variety of prices with various contracts attached, ranging from £99.99 and a £40 monthly plan with a two-year contract, to £499.99 a... entertainment open source software firm acquia raises another $8.5 million written by sarah kessler over 9 years ago acquia, a company that sells products and services for popular open source content management system drupal, has announced an $8.5 million round of funding led by by north bridge venture partners. although open source and capitalism may seem fundamen... entertainment mashable weekend recap: 13 stories you might have missed written by samuel axon over 9 years ago welcome to november, mashable readers. we hope you had a scary and candy-filled halloween weekend, but it's time to return to the land of the living. admittedly, mondays are pretty scary themselves, so to minimize the terror and help you catch up we'... entertainment apple patent promises scratch and impact-resistant devices written by stan schroeder over 9 years ago apple has filed a patent application for improving the physical characteristics of stainless steel with nitride coating, which may mean the company plans to release scratch and impact-resistant devices in the future. dubbed nitriding stainless steel ... entertainment mashable to honor fans with the world's largest real-life facebook wall written by vadim lavrusik over 9 years ago because we love our readers and want to honor you, mashable is going to decorate the walls of our headquarters in new york city with the faces of our hundreds of thousands of facebook fans. as far as we know, this will be the world's largest real-lif... entertainment 4 things small businesses should know about facebook's new groups written by samuel axon over 9 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. when facebook overhauled its groups this month, users responded with a hea... entertainment auto-tune the news does jon stewart's “the rally to restore sanity" [video] written by brenna ehrlich over 9 years ago here's a little taste of politics (or mock politics... depending on how you look at it) to get you amped for tomorrow: the gregory brothers, of auto-tune the news fame, recently released this remix of jon stewart's speech at this past weekend's "rall... entertainment "people" brings "sexiest man alive" to facebook written by adam ostrow over 9 years ago in an update to one of the more iconic “year-end” magazine editions, people has launched a “sexiest man alive on facebook” campaign to complement its “sexiest man alive” issue, which hits newsstands later this month. for the campaign, people has chos... entertainment make your iphone your personal shopping assistant written by christina warren over 9 years ago the holiday season is officially underway. and now, one of our favorite apps for grabbing price comparisons, big in japan's shopsavvy, has just been updated for the iphone. the free shopsavvy 4 for iphone is a pretty big overhaul of the app. in addit... entertainment 5 tips for marketing online to an international audience written by erica swallow over 9 years ago the international business series is brought to you by ups. discover the new logistics. it levels playing fields and lets you act locally or globally. it's for the individual entrepreneur, the small business, or the large company. put the new logisti... entertainment stumbleupon stumbles past 12 million members written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago stumbleupon has just signed up its 12 millionth member according to a tweet from ceo garrett camp. camp also indicated that the service is now seeing 500,000 new members join the site each month. the milestone metric and the accelerating signup rate ... entertainment the future of social media and politics written by matt silverman over 9 years ago the future of social media series is supported by gist. gist provides a full view of the contacts in your professional network by creating a rich business profile for each one that includes the most news, status updates, and work details. see how it ... entertainment android and apple battle for smartphone dominance [stats] written by christina warren over 9 years ago as the worldwide smartphone market continues to expand, the battle between the two primary players, ios and android, continues to sizzle. market research firm canalys has thrown some fuel on that fire by noting that apple is now the leading smartphon... entertainment xbox 360 dashboard update now available written by blake robinson over 9 years ago the annual xbox live fall update is rolling out now. it includes espn, netflix search and zune music. the release comes just before the microsoft kinect motion capture gaming controller hits stores on november 10. in addition to the above features, k... entertainment t-mobile debuts cheap android phones and cheaper data plans written by christina warren over 9 years ago if you're on a budget but still want to give a loved one the gift of android this holiday season, t-mobile has you covered. the wireless provider is offering a variety of android-powered smartphones priced at less than $100, plus some new data and te... entertainment drupal founder on why open source is good for business [interview] written by sarah kessler over 9 years ago fresh off of an $8.5 million round of funding that was announced earlier today, acquia co-founder dries buytaert is feeling pretty good about the open source business model. the company that he co-founded in 2007 sells software and products that leve... entertainment india decides not to ban rim written by christina warren over 9 years ago blackberry users in india, you're in the clear. india's ministry of home affairs confirmed in an announcement that discussions with blackberry maker rim have led to an interim agreement. under this agreement, blackberry messenger services can continu... entertainment twitter ads come to the stream written by ben parr over 9 years ago twitter will begin today expanding its ad platform, promoted tweets, to the individual streams of its users. the new ads, like their twitter search counterparts, will be targeted based primarily on keywords; it's designed to only serve ads that are r... entertainment facebook helps you find your polling place written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago facebook has once again teamed up with app developer involver to release the facebook polling place locator on the u.s. politics facebook page as part of the voting information project. application users can input their registered home address to fin... entertainment wordpress.com launches food blog aggregator written by christina warren over 9 years ago leveraging the continuing popularity of food blogging and its own vast content collection, wordpress.com has just launched foodpress, the service's first swipe at niche content aggregation. foodpress is a hand-curated collection of food-related posts... entertainment "michael jackson the experience" for wii includes a sequined glove written by christina warren over 9 years ago are you excited about the upcoming video game, michael jackson the experience? if you said no, you obviously haven't heard the latest news: users who pre-order the wii version of the game will get a free white sequined glove. the game will be availab... entertainment linkedin gives brands a platform to promote themselves written by ben parr over 9 years ago linkedin is looking to get brands more involved with the site's users through the launch of a suite of features designed to give them a stronger presence on the business social network. the new features add product and service recommendations to comp... entertainment stop cyberbullying and "find help" on facebook written by zachary sniderman over 9 years ago in response to increasing concerns about teenagers' safety on facebook, safetyweb.com, a web-based monitoring site, has introduced a new "find help" application on facebook. the app allows users to report any violation or cyberbullying to facebook of... entertainment the social future of xbox live and "halo" [interview] written by samuel axon over 9 years ago esteemed game development studio bungie concluded its direct involvement in the franchise this year with halo: reach, but the era ended with a bang — $200 million in sales in just one day, and 2,000 man years played in the first week. want to know th... entertainment iphone coming to target retail stores written by adam ostrow over 9 years ago target is set to become the latest big chain retailer to offer apple’s iphone, with both the iphone 4 and iphone 3gs arriving at the company’s stores on november 7. the company will handle activations in-store. in a statement, a target spokesperson s... entertainment 100+ upcoming social media & tech events written by brett petersel over 9 years ago every week, mashable puts together a calendar of upcoming social media and web events, parties and conferences. would you like to have your conference or event listed here? if so, please contact us at least one month before your event to establish a ... entertainment microsoft wants you to manage your gmail from your hotmail written by ben parr over 9 years ago hotmail has released a cool new feature today: the ability to receive and send e-mails from other addresses, including ones from gmail or yahoo mail. the new feature, announced by microsoft earlier today, is pretty straightforward. users just have to... entertainment facebook testing "popular places" module written by jolie o'dell over 9 years ago some folks are seeing a new, places-based, checkin-focused module on facebook. "popular places" shows locations at which friends in your network frequently check in. it appears for some users on the right column of the web interface, where you might ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 27 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.