we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for april 2014 a performer in a pink panther costume poses on the red carpet prior to the premiere of the movie 'the pink panther 2' by director harald zwart, and presented in competition at the 59th berlinale film festival in berlin on feb. 13, 2009. image: axel schmidt/staff entertainment 'the pink panther' returns with 'the simpsons movie' director helming written by josh dickey almost 6 years ago the pink panther has been rebooted more times than your aunt’s 1998 imac -- and yet, he returns again. franchise owner mgm is putting a modern, live-action/cgi-hybrid twist on the pink panther, making it into a family film that centers on the big pin... us assistant secretary of state victoria nuland speaks during a press statement at the permanent council of the organization for security and cooperation in europe, osce, at the hofburg palace in vienna, austria, monday, march 3, 2014. image: ronald zak/associated press world caught insulting allies, u.s. diplomat calls taped f-bomb 'tactical' written by brian ries almost 6 years ago some call the leak a "new low in russian tradecraft." others "a wake up call about the way you do business." but the state department official caught saying "fuck the eu" in a bugged phone conversation about the future of ukraine -- which was promptl... chicago white sox's alexei ramirez slides into home, trying to beat throw and tag by baltimore orioles catcher taylor teagarden during the sixth inning. ramirez was safe, giving the white sox a 1-0 lead in a baseball game in chicago on thursday, july 4, 2013. image: charles cherney/associated press entertainment 32 songs to celebrate mlb opening day written by connor finnegan almost 6 years ago with the super bowl long behind us and march madness winding down, major league baseball's opening day offers a fresh start for sports fans around the nation. the first day of mlb play signals the arrival of spring, a new hope for each city's fan bas... culture neil patrick harris and jason segel suit up for 'les mis' duet written by jessica catcher almost 6 years ago jason segel might want to look into joining co-star neil patrick harris on broadway now that how i met your mother has ended. when fielding questions from students during a recent visit to inside the actor's studio, the pair were asked to step into t... students clashed against tucson police officers on university avenue saturday march 29, 2014 in tucson, ariz. after arizona's loss to wisconsin 64-63 in the west region ncaa final. image: arizona daily star, carlos herrera/associated press world arizona police investigating video of officer attacking woman written by colin daileda almost 6 years ago an online video of a police officer knocking a woman over, apparently without provocation during the calm aftermath of a ncaa riot in tucson, has university of arizona students furious and the police department investigating the matter. a crowd had a... image: mashable composite. istockphoto, lhfgraphics tech microsoft office 365's new 'clutter' tool streamlines your inbox written by karissa bell almost 6 years ago microsoft unveiled a series of new features for office 365's outlook users, including an android web app, and tools for decluttering your inbox and collaborating on documents. jeff teper, the redmond, wash. company's corporate vice-president, reveale... russian president vladimir putin (right) and finnish president sauli niinisto speak during their meeting in nyagan, in the siberian khanty-mansiisk region, some 2000 kilometers (1250 miles) east of moscow, russia, tuesday, sept. 24, 2013. image: ria-novosti, alexei druzhinin, presidential press service/associated press world finland unhappy about russia conducting military drills on its border written by brian ries almost 6 years ago the finnish army has started a "24-7 live-monitoring" operation following a russian military air-force drill that is occurring just 150 miles from the border between the two countries. it has people asking: is finland the next crimea? after #crimea, ... world walmart unveils futuristic truck that is fuel-efficient written by melissa goldin almost 6 years ago walmart's logo may be blue, but the company is going green. the retail giant unveiled a prototype of a new truck at the mid-america trucking show wednesday that -- if it reaches the road -- could decrease the amount of emissions the company's enormou... image: flickr, nate steiner tech are landline phones becoming an endangered species? written by matt petronzio almost 6 years ago the declining relevance of landline phones might not be too surprising for the connected generation, but only 10 years ago, 92.7% of u.s. households had a working landline phone. now, that number has dropped to 58.1% of u.s. households, while the the... image: oju africa business african telecom proposes more diverse emoticons written by todd wasserman almost 6 years ago less than a week after apple pledged to make its emoticons more racially diverse, african telecom oju has stepped into the fray with an app that lets you send emoticons of color. the android app includes the gamut of basic emotions, including happy, ... tech drone ball brings real-life quidditch a step closer written by melissa goldin almost 6 years ago hoverball, a piece of drone-powered sports equipment under construction at the university of tokyo, has the potential to change the face of sports forever. for the first time, a ball that goes up doesn't have to come down. if their hoverball prototyp... culture louis c.k. and kenan thompson star in 'black jeopardy' on 'snl' written by andrea romano almost 6 years ago die-hard snl fans fondly remember "celebrity jeopardy", which starred a mustachioed will ferrell as alex trebek. now, kenan thompson has taken the helm as "alex treblack" in "black jeopardy". the mustache may be gone, but there's still plenty of laug... google's new auto awesome photobombs feature will add a little bit of hoff into your photos. image: google entertainment store photos on google+, get photobombed by david hasselhoff written by stan schroeder almost 6 years ago lacking a little hoff in your life? it's the perfect day, then, to upload your photos to google+, as google has just introduced a new feature: auto awesome photobombs. "upload a new self-portrait, or a group photo with friends, and leave some room fo... image: mashable composite. frank micelotta/associated press tech 12 things gmail's user base dwarfs in size written by yohana desta almost 6 years ago gmail is now a decade old. the email juggernaut, which turns 10 on april 1, grew quickly over the last few years, accruing more than 425 million global active users by 2012. google hasn't released any other metrics or data about its user base since t... culture spare your facebook friends from these 9 april fools' day pranks written by andrea romano almost 6 years ago everybody's a comedian -- at least they think they are on april fools' day. of course, planning an elaborate prank on your friends and family in real life takes a lot of time and energy. who wants to spend countless hours on a one-time event when you... image: mashable composite istock, edge69 tech the future of email: the internet's least exciting application written by max knoblauch almost 6 years ago email is not sexy. that is to say, the design and functionality of electronic mail, since its inception, have remained fundamentally consistent and relatively unexciting-- we type out messages, send them to our contacts and wait for a reply. in 10 ye... culture 50-year-old identical twins show how differently we age written by brian koerber almost 6 years ago take a second look -- these are all photographs of identical twins. in this photo series by beijing artist gao rongguo, identical twins over age 50 were photographed side by side to highlight the differences in aging. all of the twins in the series w... image: mashable, christina ascani entertainment new comedy central app is a bonanza of full episodes for free written by josh dickey almost 6 years ago no april fool’s joke: there’s a comedy cable network in your pocket, and you'll be happy to see it. further blurring the lines between tvs and mobile devices, comedy central launched an all-new app tuesday that will offer a generous helping of its fl... mark zuckerberg chairman and ceo of facebook pauses, during a conference at the mobile world congress, the world's largest mobile phone trade show in barcelona, feb. 24, 2014. image: manu fernandez/associated press business facebook ceo mark zuckerberg cut his salary to $1 written by todd wasserman almost 6 years ago in 2013, zuck only earned a buck. going by salary at least, facebook ceo mark zuckerberg earned just $1 for the year, according to a regulatory filing released on monday. in silicon valley, though, earning a token salary is a sure sign that you've ma... image: jonpaul douglass culture photographer slings pizzas into the wild for art written by christine erickson almost 6 years ago just when you think you've seen every form of food photography instagram has to offer, a game changer come along and tosses everything up in the air -- with pizza, of course. when commercial photographer jonpaul douglass isn't cruising los angeles fo... a shadow of a royal new zealand air force p3 orion aircraft is seen on low cloud cover while it searches for missing malaysia airlines flight mh370 in the southern indian ocean, monday, march 31, 2014. image: rob griffith, pool/associated press world last words from missing plane: 'good night malaysian three seven zero' written by amanda wills almost 6 years ago malaysian authorities on tuesday released the full transcript between the pilots of malaysia airlines flight 370 and air traffic control. the final words from the cockpit: “good night malaysian three seven zero.” although officials believe the plane ... tech the illustrated explanation of gmail written by bob al-greene almost 6 years ago here's a fact that will make you feel old: gmail is 10 years old today. on april 1, 2004, google introduced the beta version of its webmail feature, originally available by invitation only. ten years later, gmail boasts more than 425 million users. r... internet companies have enjoyed a price drop in essential services. image: mashable composite/istockphoto business everyone loves the cloud price wars -- for now written by jason abbruzzese almost 6 years ago for consumers, the recent price war over storage has been a pleasant surprise. for internet companies, though, it's been a cause for an extended wave of high fives. “one of my ceos declared to me the other day that last week's activity in the cloud m... culture espn makes sport of your dating woes written by jason abbruzzese almost 6 years ago the thrill of victory, the agony of defeat. with the world cup fast approaching, espn has rolled out another commercial whet the sporting appetite. while not quite in line with the gravitas of its first promo, this newest advertisements has a drama a... tom hiddelston stands with several fans dressed as loki at the &quot;thor: the dark world&quot; premiere image: dave m. benett entertainment katniss battles loki in mtv movie awards' new 'favorite character' category written by josh dickey almost 6 years ago who would win in a fight between loki, katniss everdeen, veronica mars, beatrice “tris” prior and khan? (the answer is loki. duh, he’s a god.) but this is a popularity contest, and the votes are all coming from social media. now who would win? we’ll ... vh1's new shows are freaking meowt. you've got to be kitten me right now. image: vh1 entertainment vh1's april 1 lineup includes 'mob cats' written by brian anthony hernandez almost 6 years ago vh1 unveiled four upcoming tv shows focusing on cats for a new programming day called feline fridays. these aren't just any cats, though. they're sassy cats. in a statement shared first with mashable, vh1 president tom calderone, explained how the ne... image: mashable composite. istock. sirup tech who is the average gmail user? written by yohana desta almost 6 years ago gmail, the popular email service hosted by google, turns 10 years old on tuesday. by 2012, it reached 425 million active global users, making it today's most in-demand email service. and it's only climbing upward, now estimated to have more than 500 ... tech google's april fools' jokes: gmail shelfie, chrome emojis and more written by neha prakash almost 6 years ago it's april fools' day, so for google employees, it's basically christmas morning. the tech giant spends an inordinate amount of time and resources every april 1 on pranking the internet -- because, they own half of it -- so why not? this year's prank... image: mashable, will fenstermaker business facebook still dominates on mobile, but its lead has declined written by seth fiegerman almost 6 years ago facebook continues to dominate on ios and android, by time spent, but its lead has slipped slightly. the average u.s. user spent an average of 2 hours and 42 minutes per day on mobile devices in the first three months of this year, according to new d... dallas morning news photographer luois deluca captured this photo from a helicopter high above rangers ballpark in arlington on monday ahead of the rangers' season opener against philadelphia. image: louis deluca/dallas morning news entertainment everything we love about baseball's opening day in one photo written by kurt wagner almost 6 years ago the crack of the bat. the smell of fresh cut grass. the...pain of opening your wallet for overpriced beers at the stadium concession stands. you betcha, baseball is back. monday was opening day for major league baseball and few things feel more ameri... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 59 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.