we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for july 2011 entertainment sneak preview: gmail has a new look, too written by charlie white over 8 years ago first google rolls out google+, then redesigns google calendar, and now it's fiddling around with gmail. hidden in the themes section of the interface and named "preview" and "preview (dense)," the clean look is more spread out than the classic gmail... entertainment how schema.org will change your search results & what it means for marketers written by jeff ente over 8 years ago jeff ente is the director of who's blogging what, a weekly e-newsletter that tracks over 1,100 social media, web marketing and user experience blogs to keep readers informed about key developments in their field and highlight useful but hard to find ... entertainment non-profits can now run their own exclusive group buying deals written by zachary sniderman over 8 years ago everybody loves group buying, right? a deal for a cause expects non-profits to jump on the trend with an emphasis on fundraising and loyalty to causes. where groupon, livingsocial and other group buying giants act as destination sites with a plethora... entertainment make google+ look more like facebook written by christina warren over 8 years ago already using google+? follow mashable's pete cashmore for the latest about the platform's new features, tips and tricks as well as social media and technology updates. a new userscript style makes google+ look even more like facebook. since its laun... entertainment there are now 100,000 apps for the ipad written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago the owners of apple's ipad now have 100,000 apps to choose from, macstories reports. this is quite an accomplishment given that the original ipad was launched less than a year and a half ago, in april 2010. in march 2011, there were 75,000 apps avail... entertainment gmail redesign, google+ games & more: this morning's top stories written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. we’re keeping our eyes on four particular stories of interest today. google redesigns gmail, google calendar goo... entertainment thanks to mashable’s socially savvy supporters written by mashable team over 8 years ago thanks to this week’s advertisers and partners for enabling us to bring you the latest social media news and resources. mashable's sponsors are as social media savvy as our readers! advertise with us and get noticed. mashable is seeking site sponsors... entertainment village voice reaches settlement ahead of strike [updated] written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago update: village voice staffers and managers have reached an agreement and thus avoided a strike, according to spokesperson and staff writer graham a. rayman. “we won on two essential points with respect to our health benefits in that employees will c... entertainment wikileaks spoofs mastercard commercial [video] written by sarah kessler over 8 years ago the latest spoof on a classic mastercard ad campaign comes from one of the credit card company's best known adversaries. "there are some people who don't like change," ends the short video that was recently posted to vimeo. "for everyone else, there'... entertainment how to: protect your company's passwords written by christina warren over 8 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. it’s almost impossible to understate the importance of having and using st... entertainment grooveshark gives indie artists a marketing boost written by brenna ehrlich over 8 years ago music subscription service grooveshark has really started to rally for indie artists of late. first, it launched a channel for emerging artists with indaba, and now it's partnering with label services company rocket science to help up-and-coming arti... entertainment twitter facing antitrust inquiry from ftc [report] written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago the federal trade commission is investigating twitter and at least one company that builds applications using its data, according to multiple reports. why twitter is under investigation is not yet clear, although the ftc's antitrust arm appears to be... entertainment top 25 most-shared mashable stories in june written by brian anthony hernandez over 8 years ago discussions about google+ dominated the online discourse on social sites as june came to a close, but a flurry of other hot topics got their fair share of attention throughout the month, including the les paul google doodle, the pope's first tweet an... entertainment watch the itunes festival across all apple devices written by brenna ehrlich over 8 years ago the fifth annual itunes festival kicks off on july 1 in london, but you can watch it from anywhere via itunes on your computer, or on your iphone, ipad or ipod touch with the app. the festival runs from july 1 through july 31 and will feature more th... entertainment breaking: zynga files for ipo written by ben parr over 8 years ago after months of speculation, social gaming juggernaut zynga has finally filed for an ipo that could raise $1 billion. zynga's s1 filing, which we are going through now, reveals that the company has 60 million daily active users, 232 million monthly a... entertainment facebook set to announce "something awesome" written by sarah kessler over 8 years ago mark zuckerberg told reporters who were visiting facebook's seattle office on wednesday that the company plans to announce "something awesome" next week. now it looks like the company is following through with its plans. mashable received an invitati... entertainment zynga: 232 million monthly players, $597 million in revenue [infographic] written by christina warren over 8 years ago in zynga's s-1 filing for its $1 billion potential ipo, the company opened its briefing with a visual representation of some of its most compelling statistics. see also: photos: zynga files for ipo | 11 interesting facts from zynga's filing the infog... entertainment adobe offers final cut users 50% discount on premiere pro cs5.5 written by christina warren over 8 years ago adobe is responding to the backlash against apple's new final cut pro x by offering final cut customers 50% off adobe premiere pro cs5.5. between july 1 and september 30, video professionals that have purchased any version of apple final cut pro or a... entertainment come listen & spin in the mashable turntable.fm room written by brenna ehrlich over 8 years ago a good number of us over at mashable have become thoroughly obsessed with new startup turntable.fm. therefore, we have decided to spread that obsession by launching our very own turntable.fm room, where you can join us in some friday spinning. if you... entertainment 15 fun products to geek up your 4th of july bbq [pics] written by amy-mae elliott over 8 years ago if you're planning on some bbq action this fourth of july weekend (and let's face it -- it's basically unpatriotic not to), then we have a host of super-fun accessories to bring some geeky goodness to your gathering. from prep to grilling, right thro... entertainment google in preliminary talks to buy hulu [report] written by sarah kessler over 8 years ago google already owns the most-viewed online video site, youtube. now it might be picking up the video site with the most ad views as well. the company is in preliminary talks to buy television streaming site hulu, the l.a. times reports. according to ... entertainment happy birthday sony walkman: 10 retro accessories for cassette connoisseurs [pics] written by amy-mae elliott over 8 years ago on this day in 1979, the tps-l2 went on sale in japan. it was a notable milestone for music and gadget lovers everywhere as the first affordable portable audio cassette player -- sony's first walkman. years after the "walkman" name was as synonymous ... entertainment future design: could this be the perfect multitool? [video] written by charlie white over 8 years ago the age-old screwdriver has met its match with this design concept called coral tools. the multicolored multi-tools look like tripods, but each leg is actually a cover that conceals a flat head screwdriver, a phillips-head screwdriver, a nail-steadyi... tech white house tech support [comic] written by matt silverman over 8 years ago mashable comics are illustrated every week by kiersten essenpreis, a new york-based artist who draws and blogs at youfail.com. more mashable comics: - online predators - first-generation gps - it was all just a huge misunderstanding - how to: parent ... entertainment now you can comment on & share hulu video moments on facebook written by brenna ehrlich over 8 years ago hulu has given users the ability to comment on specific moments of videos and share those moments on facebook. this is hardly hulu's first integration with facebook -- the video site launched hulu: watch now fall premieres apps in 2009. but now hulu ... entertainment guardian & observer to shut down international editions written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago the international print editions of the guardian and the observer are among the earliest casualties of the guardian news & media's (gnm) evolving "digital first" strategy. international copies, printed in new york, frankfurt, madrid, malta and cyprus... entertainment facebook to unveil skype-powered video chat next week [confirmed] written by ben parr over 8 years ago facebook's "awesome" announcement next week has been spoiled. the social network will reportedly be unveiling a skype-powered video chat platform. facebook's seattle team was behind the new feature, according to techcrunch. skype and facebook already... entertainment flat growth, booming revenue: 11 facts from the zynga ipo filing written by ben parr over 8 years ago above: zynga's s1 filing in word cloud form zynga has filed for a $1 billion ipo. if all goes according to plan, the social gaming juggernaut could be worth more than $15 billion. zynga's impressive stats are part of the reason for its sky-high valua... entertainment 6 tips for providing better online customer support written by mariusz cieply over 8 years ago mariusz cieply has been with livechat since its founding in 2002, first as software developer, later as project manager and now as its ceo. for more info on livechat, follow @livechat. customer satisfaction has long been the holy grail for retailers.... entertainment sony camcorder has a projector on board [pics] written by charlie white over 8 years ago now that projectors have gotten so small, sony's decided to shoehorn one into a camcorder. at first glance, the sony hdr-pj50 handycam looks like an ordinary camcorder, but the outside of that viewscreen holds a special secret: a tiny projector sony ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 30 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.