we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for november 2009 entertainment halloween 2009: google doodle goes click or treat [pics] written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago if you've hopped over to google.com this halloween, you might have spotted the world's favorite search engine has a special halloween logo. actually, it's not just one logo: clicking on the google image delivers a series of images related to hallowee... tech twitter lists: only you can help mashable beat barack obama :) written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago twitter opened up twitter lists this week, allowing users to create their own "follow lists" of their favorite twitter accounts. todd zeigler tallied the early stats this morning and found that - yowzers - our own humble @mashable account was the sec... entertainment tweet humor: 10 twitter users that crack us up written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago twitter can be a very educational place, whereby following the right individual or brand, you can learn from their tweets. in fact, we've already highlighted usability experts, entrepreneurs, authors (fiction and nonfiction), environmentalists, foodi... entertainment the top internet memes of 2009 written by christina warren over 10 years ago the instantaneous and shareable nature of the internet is one of the things that separates it from other mediums. viral videos and internet memes can take hold and spread quickly. thanks to social networking, the speed in which the latest phenomena c... entertainment google wave guide: user manual released for wave written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago confused about how to use google wave, the new google product that combines messaging, wiki-like features and group collaboration into a single app? you're not alone. to clear up the confusion, we recently published google wave: a complete guide, a f... entertainment youtube down: it's not just you written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago a social media service announcement: youtube is suffering some downtime today, with the site first becoming unresponsive over two hours ago, and now experiencing limited uptime for many users. we're seeing youtube embeds on mashable occasionally fail... entertainment what's the future of twitter? 30 tweeting predictions [video] written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago what's next for twitter? according to seesmic founder loic le meur, it'll be a hub of hyperlocal news, be used more by devices than humans (eg. cars that tweet their location) and replace chat applications for many people. le meur, answering the ques... entertainment iphone and windows 7 don't play nice, no fix in sight written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago over the weekend, reports have been piling up saying that iphone syncing with itunes doesn't work for some users on windows 7. the official apple forums have several threads related to the issue, so it's quite safe to assume the issue is real. lookin... entertainment poll: illegal downloaders buy the most music written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago the uk's independent newspaper picks up on a curious study today: people who download music illegally also buy more music legally, according to a poll's results. the study comes as the uk plans a controversial "three strikes and you're out" rule that... entertainment so, you think you're better than michael phelps...at speed putting? written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago i've been swimming for a couple of summers now, working ardently on my technique and cardio, and i'm still incredibly slow. so slow, in fact, that michael phelps could swim 500 m, get out of the water, order a hamburger, and read the morning news bef... entertainment and the next big thing in ebooks is...iphone (and a friend) written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago according to mobile analytics company flurry, there's been a surge of ebook-related applications for the iphone. based on their research, which included sampling over 2,500 applications and 40 million consumers accross four mobile platforms, this cat... entertainment mashable's weekly conference guide to everything social media written by tamar weinberg over 10 years ago it's a brand new week, which means it's time for mashable’s guide to upcoming social media and web events, parties, and conferences. for more upcoming event listings, check out mashable's events section. is your event not on this list? contact us at ... entertainment how to: use twitter lists written by josh catone over 10 years ago update: you can get started with twitter lists by following the mashable team twitter list at twitter.com/mashable/mashable the just-launched twitter lists feature is a new way to organize the people you're following on twitter, or find new people. i... entertainment johnny damon double steal video: another youtube classic written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago as the world series between the new york yankees and the philadelphia phillies heats up, fans are turning to the web in droves to capture and replay its most exciting moments. last night's game four in philadelphia was certainly no exception. the gam... entertainment this is it: $100 million at the box office and rave 140 character reviews written by christina warren over 10 years ago we had a feeling that the michael jackson documentary "this is it" would do pretty well at the box office, thanks to strong online ticket sales in advance of the film's release. when the final box office numbers were tallied up, "this is it" grossed ... entertainment google voice search now understands chinese written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago iphones, android phones, and now nokia phones (s60 models) all have the ability to run the google mobile app and conduct searches by voice. the nokia news comes by way of a google blog post on the announcement and means that a whole new audience can ... entertainment seesmic desktop adds support for twitter lists written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago now that twitter lists have been rolled out to everyone, and the lists api is in the wild, the next thing for twitter users to look out for is lists support in their favorite desktop, mobile, and web applications. today, seesmic desktop appears to be... entertainment how to: use public domain content written by brandon mendelson over 10 years ago brandon mendelson is the co-author of a public domain mash-up, dracula and kittens. follow @bjmendelson on twitter for updates on this and other projects. considered to be one of the worst films ever made, santa claus conquers the martians is availab... entertainment twitter lists in action: nhl builds a social network for fans written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago now that all twitter users have twitter lists, seesmic has announced support of lists in their desktop application, and more and more use cases are being suggested, buzz around the feature continues to intensify. earlier, we published a guide about h... entertainment apple to launch itunes powered tv subscription plans [rumor] written by christina warren over 10 years ago more and more content is available online for free -- legally -- than ever before. however, as a result, some customers are moving from the cable box to the computer screen, and dropping their premium subscriptions as a result. last month, a news cor... entertainment this is (not really) it: michael jackson surges on amazon again written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago in a not completely surprising twist of events, the this is it film is proving to be the michael jackson comeback the deceased pop star was hoping for with the planned world tour prior to his untimely passing. we've already reported on this is it dom... entertainment playing rock band on the iphone: there's a robot for that [video] written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago what's cooler than the rock band for iphone application? how about a man-made robot that uses light sensors and robot fingers to master the game's highest level of difficulty without any human influence? joe bowers decided that he would rather have a... entertainment warning: twitter money scams spreading through dms written by ben parr over 10 years ago you have to credit the phishers and scammers: they are persistent in their attempts to hijack your twitter account. they scammed many uses back in september and updated their tactics in october. now they're at it again with similar tactics but a diff... entertainment brandon spikes eye gouging: bad behavior caught on video written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago if you missed the university of florida football game on saturday, then you might be unaware of a shocking moment in the game when brandon spikes, a linebacker for florida, blatantly shoves his fingers inside the face mask of georgia running back, wa... entertainment skype for linux is opening up written by christina warren over 10 years ago recently, there have been some rumors swirling around about skype becoming open source (for linux), originating with a french blog. the news has continued to spread, so skype representatives have posted an entry on the skype for linux blog clarifying... entertainment could the web run out of addresses by 2010? written by ben parr over 10 years ago if businesses, governments, and education institutions don't upgrade to a newer ip address standard relatively soon, we could experience an unnerving scenario: the world running out of internet addresses. the report, released by the european commissi... entertainment now anyone can host their own (experimental) google wave server written by ben parr over 10 years ago back in may, when google wave first made its debut on the stage of the google i/o conference, we chronicled what we believed to be the top 6 game-changing features of google wave. while we discussed some big ones such as wave extensions and its wiki-... entertainment twitter lists widget: embed your lists on your blog written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago update: twitter's also released their own widget, which you can see embedded at the end of this post. - as predicted the twitter lists api is causing a fast frenzy amongst twitter developers anxious to be first to support the new lists feature. just ... entertainment free music monday: singer-songwriter edition written by barb dybwad over 10 years ago greetings, music fans! it's another free music monday for your listening pleasure. if you've been with us for past episodes, you'll know we're celebrating the #musicmonday tradition on twitter. we pick 10 tracks, albums or playlists from around the w... entertainment google chrome gets bookmark syncing written by barb dybwad over 10 years ago the latest chrome beta build ushers in a great new feature: bookmark syncing. if you use multiple computers, or even just appreciate a cloud backup of your browser bookmarks, this feature will be a boon. you can grab the new beta build 4.0.223.16 her... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 19 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.