we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for september 2013 entertainment blinkdrink app will turn heads at the bar written by sam laird over 6 years ago looking for a new way to attract some attention at the bar? a new app called blinkdrink can probably help -- but it comes with some built-in risk. business fundingdream aims to reinvigorate crowdfunding in china written by adam popescu over 6 years ago can a crowdfunding site succeed in china? if a new company can get the attention of a small percent of china's more than 1.4 billion people, the impact could be huge, and the revenue even bigger. still in private beta and launching in early december,... entertainment 3 ways to watch the itunes festival written by brian anthony hernandez over 6 years ago just like during mtv's video music awards, performances by lady gaga and katy perry will bookend the itunes festival, while justin timberlake and other artists will take the stage in the middle of the month-long concert series. gaga will kick off the... entertainment 10 best water filtration bottles written by amy-mae elliott over 6 years ago did you know that around 38 billion plastic water bottles end up in landfill every year? that one bottle can take over 400 years to degrade? that in the u.s. we spend over $15 billion a year on bottled water? you can help save the planet -- and save ... tech can't wait for the iphone 5s? get the look with a gold case written by amy-mae elliott over 6 years ago rumor has it that the next-gen iphone will be offered in gold -- plus there's some supposedly leaked pics. we say, why not go ahead of the curve by dressing up your iphone 5 with a gold case? that way, if the reports are true, you'll already be right... entertainment pinterest is down for some users written by samantha murphy kelly over 6 years ago want to spend your weekend looking at pictures of patio furniture and homemade baked goods? unfortunately, pinterest is down for some users. tech new software could turn robots into friends and co-workers written by samantha murphy kelly over 6 years ago british researchers are developing software to make robots so smart they could even become friends or even co-workers. world famed nixon interviewer david frost dead at 74 written by anita li over 6 years ago david frost, the famed british broadcaster best known for conducting a series of interviews with former u.s. president richard nixon, is dead at 74. frost died following a heart attack on board the queen elizabeth cruise ship, where he was giving a s... culture 20 geeky socks sure to knock yours off written by laura vitto over 6 years ago do you spend hours searching for reaction gifs on reddit? can you recite every line in each star wars episode? did you ace your freshman astronomy course? if any or all of these questions directly relate to you, then congratulations: you're a certifi... business how to reinvent your career written by jennifer parris over 6 years ago no matter what your age or motivation, it’s not as impossible as it may seem to reinvent your career. here’s how. entertainment 'spirited away' director hayao miyazaki is retiring written by the mary sue over 6 years ago you had better enjoy anime legend hayao miyazaki's next film, the wind rises, because it'll be his last. the news comes courtesy of koji hoshino, one of the heads of miyazaki's studio ghibli; this is what he said at the venice film festival, where mi... tech ifa berlin 2013: huge phones, smart watches and 4k written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago although ces and mobile world congress, which take place in january and february, are the first big consumer electronics events of the year, it's berlin's ifa that gives us the first important announcements after the summer doldrums. as such, ifa (wh... entertainment pinterest user attributes hitler quotes to taylor swift written by geekosystem over 6 years ago it seems to happen every few months. a picture of a historical figure with a quote credited to them gets passed around the internet, then someone points out that it wasn’t them who said it. then someone posts a snarky “don’t trust internet quotes — a... tech lg's new g pad 8.3 tablet will fit in your pocket written by samantha murphy kelly over 6 years ago lg's pocket-sized g pad 8.3 tablet is the first 8-inch mobile device with a full hd display. tech one stop shop: top 25 digital media resources this week written by taylor casti over 6 years ago it's been a busy week in the tech world, but if miley's twerking escapades scared you off the internet for the past little while, have no fear -- we've got you covered. mashable has rounded up this week's 25 best digital media resources, which are li... culture a look inside microsoft ceo steve ballmer's retirement party written by neha prakash over 6 years ago last week, microsoft ceo steve ballmer announced his retirement. while we're sure some are sad to see him go, others are excited for the dawn of a new era at the company -- in particular, all the products that ballmer retired during his time there. s... culture don't take your ipad to the beach written by neha prakash over 6 years ago headed to the beach this holiday weekend? maybe it's best to leave the tech at home. see also: more comics on mashable in this sunday comic, maria scrivan remembers a simpler time when taking a book to the beach just meant getting sand in the pages. ... world mars landslides caused by odd double-layered craters written by space.com over 6 years ago scientists are a step closer to solving a 40-year-old mystery about some unusual-looking craters on mars. business google's ad campaign for moto x touts customization written by todd wasserman over 6 years ago when google introduced its first ads for the moto x at the beginning of the month, we were told they were not part of the "real" moto x ad campaign that was coming later. this ad may be the first component of that campaign. unlike the previous execut... culture viral video recap: must-watch memes of the week written by samantha murphy kelly over 6 years ago can you believe miley's childhood-ruining vma performance was just seven days ago? fortunately, a lot more than that went viral this week. world dea has access to billions of at&t phone call records written by lance ulanoff over 6 years ago the united states drug enforcement agency's (dea) efforts to stay ahead of drug dealers has, according to a new york times report, helped launch one of the most unusual and wide-ranging phone-record access programs seen yet. according to a report in ... tech turn mobile messages into meetings with klamr written by adam popescu over 6 years ago klamr, a new multi-task messaging app for ios and android debuted on the app store friday. it's a swiss army knife type of service combining some of the most beloved social functions: messaging, social planning, location search, reviews, chat, and ph... tech acer unveils 6-inch liquid s2 smartphone with 4k recording written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago though ifa berlin is officially four days away, acer has decided to unveil its product lineup, starting with a huge smartphone called the acer liquid s2. the device sports a monstrous 6-inch, 1920x1080 pixel screen, a 13-megapixel camera on the back ... tech lg frames its 55-inch oled tv like a painting written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago lg has announced it would have a wide variety of new audio and video gadgets on display at ifa berlin, held september 6-11, and it's already starting to deliver. the company just announced a wall-mountable 55-inch oled tv, called lg gallery, which is... tech 6 labor-saving gadgets for a life of leisure written by eric larson over 6 years ago they say robots will soon take over the world -- and on labor day, why not let them? but just for today. business dea's phone call records database and other news you need to know written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of "first to know," a series in which we keep you in the know on what's happening in the digital world. today, we're looking at three particularly interesting stories. the war on drugs makes use of a phone database l... business the 20 most-shared ads of august written by todd wasserman over 6 years ago august presented a fairly standard crop of viral ads. there was the requisite number of game trailers (three) and sports-themed videos (eight), plus some die hard videos from previous months (three). in other words, the usual fare floated to the top ... business the 5 phases of growth hacking written by ryan holiday over 6 years ago some of the most successful startups have sidestepped traditional advertising for a more iterative and experimental approach: growth hacking. entertainment 29 songs to enjoy on your labor day off written by marissa cetin over 6 years ago labor day comes the first monday of september each year in the u.s. to celebrate the american workforce, though most people spend it enjoying the last unofficial weekend of summer. and some workers are treated to a day off, which is always a plus. ki... culture captain kirk has a close encounter with miley cyrus written by annie colbert over 6 years ago mtv beamed miley cyrus' vma performance all the way to the uss enterprise. captain kirk may seem like the twerking type, but miley's foam finger antics dismayed even the womanizing starship skipper. spock, sulu and lieutenant uhura watched with paine... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 49 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.