we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for september 2010 entertainment madden nfl makes its debut on facebook written by ben parr over 9 years ago electronic arts' wildly successful madden nfl franchise has made the leap from the xbox to facebook. the gaming giant has launched madden nfl superstars, the company's second social game since it acquired social game maker playfish. the company's fir... entertainment social network unites writers and fans of short fiction [invites] written by lauren indvik over 9 years ago this post is part of mashable’s spark of genius series, which highlights a unique feature of startups. the series is made possible by microsoft bizspark.. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. n... entertainment sony refreshes its e-readers with improved touch screen written by stan schroeder over 9 years ago at the mention of an "e-reader," most people think kindle or nook, but if you just want the device, sans the deal with the content provider, sony has a nice little trio of e-readers on offer, and they've all just been upgraded with several important ... entertainment sexual assault case against wikileaks founder reopened written by stan schroeder over 9 years ago sweden's chief prosecutor has reopened a rape investigation against wikileaks founder julian assange. recently, assange was accused with crimes of molestation and rape by the swedish authorities. assange has denied the allegations, claiming they are ... entertainment gowalla feature defines place popularity by experience, not checkins written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago travelers and city adventurers looking for a better way to harness geolocation data for their own amusement, get ready: gowalla is releasing a brand new beta feature designed to crowdsource the best a city has to offer. gowalla highlights is a web-ba... entertainment morning brief: apple live event, amazon tv subscription service, new sony e-readers written by lauren indvik over 9 years ago this series is brought to you by htc evo 4g, america's first 4g phone. only from sprint. the "first to know" series keeps you in the know on what's happening now in the world of social media and technology. welcome to this morning’s edition of “first... entertainment android gets tough with rugged motorola defy written by stan schroeder over 9 years ago motorola's new android-based smartphone, the defy, boasts an interesting combination of solid features and ruggedness that will appeal to users prone to splashing, dropping and scratching their phone. if you saw the defy and read its specifications, ... entertainment fashionstake shifts fashion industry power to the consumer written by lauren indvik over 9 years ago put this on your startups-to-watch list: fashionstake, a new york city-based company that allows consumers to buy a "stake" in a designer's collection in exchange for varying degrees of perks and privileges, such as pre-order discounts and runway sho... entertainment 4 tips for writing seo-friendly blog posts written by samuel axon over 9 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. in addition to writing for their human readers, web writers and bloggers h... entertainment salesforce and jigsaw help keep business data up-to-date in real-time written by christina warren over 9 years ago enterprise cloud computing company salesforce.com is introducing the newest component to its platform, jigsaw for salesforce crm. jigsaw for salesforce integrates the salesforce crm and salesforce chatter experience with jigsaw's crowdsourced busines... entertainment ultimate ears in-ear reference monitors now available written by blake robinson over 9 years ago ultimate ears, a subsidiary of logitech, have set loose another pair of custom earbuds that will make ears swoon and wallets groan. the ultimate ears in-ear reference monitors feature three individually tuned and balanced armature speakers in each ea... entertainment justin.tv's android app lets you broadcast live video anytime, anywhere written by jolie o'dell over 9 years ago imagine streaming video from your android phone to the web at the click of a button -- no wi-fi needed, no painful upload times, no maneuvering back and forth between a handful of apps to shoot and share your video. today, justin.tv is making all tha... entertainment apple: 120 million ios devices, 6.5 billion app downloads and counting written by ben parr over 9 years ago apple's steve jobs has taken the stage at the yerba buena center for the arts in san francisco to make a slew of announcements related to ios, apple tv, itunes and the ipod. first though, he dropped some big stats on the state of the ios ecosystem. a... entertainment ios 4.1 and ios 4.2 on the way: hdr, game center and ipad support written by christina warren over 9 years ago at apple's special event today, the company announced its next two ios releases: ios 4.1 and ios 4.2. apple will be releasing ios 4.1 next week as a free update for the iphone and ipod touch, fixing some bugs and adding new features like hdr photos, ... entertainment apple introduces "ping" music social network and itunes 10 written by ben parr over 9 years ago apple has revealed itunes 10, the newest version of itunes complete with a new logo, new features and its very own social network for music called "ping" that he described as facebook meets twitter for music. ping allows users to follow others, just ... entertainment target to sell facebook credits as gift cards in stores written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago target will be the first retailer to sell facebook credits in its stores come sunday. the facebook credits gift cards will be available in $15, $25 and $50 denominations at all 1,750 target locations and at target.com. the cards will soon make their ... entertainment apple overhauls ipod lineup written by blake robinson over 9 years ago lots of news came out of today's apple press event, but in the words of apple ceo steve jobs, ipods were "the entree of the day." the ipod shuffle, ipod nano and ipod touch each received significant cosmetic and feature updates, while the ipod classi... entertainment ping is the last nail in the coffin for myspace written by ben parr over 9 years ago if i were myspace, i would be shaking in my boots. earlier today, apple launched itunes 10, the latest rendition of its wildly popular music software. really though, itunes 10 is just a vessel for ping, apple's new music-centric social network. avail... entertainment how to: follow the us open with social media written by sarah kessler over 9 years ago it's us open time in new york, which means tennis fever has officially hit the city that never sleeps. as the final major tournament in professional tennis, the us open always draws a healthy audience, nationally and abroad. maybe you’ve been waiting... entertainment we're hiring! 50+ job vacancies in social media, web design, and more written by tamar weinberg over 9 years ago if you're seeking a job in social media, we'd like to help out. for starters, mashable's job lists section gathers together all of our resource lists, how-tos and expert guides to help you get hired. in particular, you might want to see our articles ... entertainment facebook places gets a romantic twist with meetmoi integration written by brenna ehrlich over 9 years ago if you're one of those people who has yet to figure out exactly how and why to use facebook places -- and you're single -- meetmoi might have the answer. this week, the geolocation dating service became the first matchmaking service to integrate with... entertainment cee-lo's viral hit "f**ck you" gets an official music video written by brenna ehrlich over 9 years ago so fall's official jam (no, really, it was even playing in a super hipster brooklyn club last weekend), cee-lo green's "f**ck you," officially has a video. just last week, a stripped-down video featuring merely the song's lyrics officially went viral... entertainment apple's xbox live-like game center to launch next week written by samuel axon over 9 years ago next week, apple will launch game center for the iphone and the ipod touch. the app and platform will allow video game players to track one another's achievements, create multiplayer matches and discover new games. the features are comparable to thos... entertainment we have a winner: the snazzy napper parody contest [video] written by brenna ehrlich over 9 years ago the other week we called upon you, gentle readers, to create a parody commercial for the snazzy napper -- or snuggie 2.0, as we have dubbed it. although three of you stepped forward to assume to mantle of director, veritable scorseses of schlock, in ... entertainment qr codes help consumers shop for wine written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago selecting the right wine for every occasion is a form of art most of us only pretend to understand. that's why lion nathan wine group, a wine owner and importer, has put qr codes on wine bottles to help everyday wine buyers make better selections. ce... entertainment new apple tv adds netflix, itunes rentals and ipad streaming for $99 written by christina warren over 9 years ago at apple's special event today, the company announced a redesigned and re-formulated apple tv. as expected, the new device comes with support for netflix, streams content and offers affordable rental pricing for tv shows. the new apple tv will be ava... entertainment filmmaker raises more than $34,000 for pirate bay documentary written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago documentary filmmaker simon klose has more than 200 hours of unedited footage that he plans turn into a feature-length film, the pirate bay -- away from keyboard (tpb afk). after years of documenting the pirate bay's legal proceedings, and taping num... entertainment windows phone 7 ready for release written by ben parr over 9 years ago microsoft has completed the development of its forthcoming windows phone 7. the mobile os has reached the release to manufacturing (rtm) stage, the company announced today. all that remains now is for networks and manufacturers to work on the final i... entertainment why the apple a4 is the ipod touch's killer feature written by blake robinson over 9 years ago as expected, a massive upgrade to the ipod touch was announced earlier today at apple's special event. although the most outwardly impressive revisions come by way of front and rear facing cameras and the retina display, perhaps more significant was ... entertainment old digg crushes new digg in reader vote written by ben parr over 9 years ago in the debate between the old version of digg and the new digg, the readers have spoken. last week, digg launched version 4.0 of the popular social news website. it's been a rocky road pre-launch, so why would it be any different post-launch? since t... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 23 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.