we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for october 2009 entertainment google now highlights forum posts in search results written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago for some types of queries, the best results often come from online forums. what's the best place to eat in san francisco? what type of ram should i buy? where do i find a flux capacitor? recognizing this, google has added a new feature to its search ... entertainment sync google search history with your mobile written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago perhaps google has taken cue from the very active bing team, because they've rolled several search-related improvements in the matter of hours, and all that in the midst of the official launch of google wave. this latest improvement is a small one, b... entertainment mashable readers: help kids get into social media! written by pete cashmore over 10 years ago it's october (on the east coast at least!), which means it's time for the donors choose social media challenge, wherein web and social media folks get together and raise money for kids in need of educational equipment in the classroom. this year mash... entertainment number crunching: so, what's apple's real smartphone market share? written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago admob, a company that specializes in mobile advertising, has released another monthly report, showing the state of mobile operating systems, as seen through the lense of the admob network. according to the report , the market share of iphone os, andr... entertainment they're very, very rich: microsoft and google top forbes 400 written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago it's that time of the year again when forbes publishes their annual list of the 400 richest americans, and the rest of us look at the billions they own, dream away for a minute or two, and then get back to reality, remembering we've forgotten to pay ... entertainment obama assassination poll on facebook was created by a minor written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago earlier this week, a poll created using a third-party app on facebook asked “should obama be killed?” the episode quickly garnered national attention, and the secret service was called in to identify who created it and determine if there was a credib... entertainment typepad motion: six apart's take on microblogging written by christina warren over 10 years ago blog software company six apart has a number of different products and services. in 2003, the company launched typepad as a hosted-blogging platform for users and companies that wanted an easy way to blog or add blogging components to their existing ... entertainment google launches 9 new ways to search written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago google continues to work to address the threat posed by the real-time search capabilities of services like twitter and facebook. in may, they launched “search options” to allow users to refine search results by content type and time (within the past ... entertainment you’ve been served … a court order, via twitter written by adam ostrow over 10 years ago the issue of “twitter jacking” someone’s identity has been a hot topic this year. perhaps the most visible incident was st louis cardinals manager tony la russa taking twitter to court over someone else using his identity on the microblogging service... entertainment 9 successful techniques for making money from podcasting written by david spark over 10 years ago david spark (@dspark) is the founder of spark media solutions, specialists in building industry voice through storytelling and social media. he blogs at spark minute and is a regular on cranky geeks and abc radio. for many, creating a podcast is some... entertainment virtual neighborhood watch: how social media is making cities safer written by josh catone over 10 years ago the smarter cities series is supported by ibm. read more about building a smarter planet on the ibm a smarter planet blog. social media tools like twitter, facebook, youtube, and even email, instant messaging, and sms have become the defacto way we c... entertainment analysis: which airlines do twitter users prefer? written by christina warren over 10 years ago unless you're lucky enough to have your own private jet, the whole process of air travel can be pretty frustrating even under the best of circumstances. navigating the airport, going through security checks, dealing with luggage requirements, and hop... entertainment linkedin launches profile organizer, enters salesforce territory written by ben parr over 10 years ago the business social network linkedin is not just a way to connect with your business contacts. for a lot of recruiters, salespeople, and other professionals, it's a great business database for finding potential leads and new employees. organizing the... entertainment twitter begins attaching locations to tweets written by ben parr over 10 years ago a little over a month ago, twitter announced that it would be attaching locations to tweets in an effort to become a stronger geolocation tool. the company said that it would attach a latitude and a longitude to a user's tweets, if they opted into th... entertainment warning: new facebook malware attack is spreading written by barb dybwad over 10 years ago when facebook attacks, it's not pretty. we were just remarking on how new ways of spreading malware were plaguing social media, and now the second facebook-related scam in the past week appears to be spreading. have a look at the picture below, and i... entertainment how to: get started with google wave written by ben parr over 10 years ago google wave has arrived. the real-time communication platform has been one of the hottest and most anticipated products in the tech and social media space for months. soon around 100,000 people will be messaging each other in one of google's most amb... entertainment t-pain iphone app: 300,000 downloads in three weeks written by ben parr over 10 years ago a few weeks ago, popular iphone app developer smule launched its i am t-pain iphone app. this wonderful little piece of technology gave you the ability to sing along to t-pain tracks utilizing auto-tune. the result is a ton of fun. so it's been a lit... entertainment want a google wave invite? there's a website for that written by barb dybwad over 10 years ago still hunting for a google wave invite? you're not alone -- and in fact, there's a whole community springing up just to meet your needs. google wave invites is a free "marketplace" for distributing wave invites, much like have sprung up in the past f... entertainment #blameethanscancer: twitter takes on cancer, round 2 written by ben parr over 10 years ago if you've been a long-time user of twitter, you've probably seen the #blamedrewscancer hashtag. it's part of a campaign by drew olanoff, who was diagnosed with cancer on may 20th of this year. instead of wallowing about the news, he started his campa... entertainment translate any site instantly in firefox with google toolbar written by barb dybwad over 10 years ago there's a whole lot of translation action going on this week, with both google and facebook already announcing a translation product for webmasters earlier. now google has another translation announcement, this time bringing multi-language support ri... entertainment jack thompson sues facebook, cites personal safety written by barb dybwad over 10 years ago much like the energizer bunny, seemingly nothing can stop ex-lawyer jack thompson -- not even disbarment. according to the escapist, thompson has set his sights on a new target for litigation: facebook. the former crusader against violent video games... entertainment new apple multitouch patent enables typing on a large screen written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago most sci-fi fans remember the movie minority report, and the scene where tom cruise manipulates data on a large, vertical, virtual screen using only his hands and fingers. although i prefer to do my computer work sitting down, it was the stuff geek d... entertainment guy gets mad at iphone, threatens to shoot it. with a real gun. written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago ok, we know the iphone, as wonderful as it is, can be a troublesome device. it can freeze, and the apps can get all weird, and then you can't play zynga poker or whatever it is you like to do with it. but going into an apple store, asking for the pho... entertainment how to: get real-time traffic reports on your iphone written by barb dybwad over 10 years ago this post is part of mashable's spark of genius series, which highlights a unique feature of startups. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. the series is made possible by microsoft bizspark. na... entertainment twitter labs coming soon? written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago most gmail users are familiar with google labs, a nifty set of experimental features which aren't quite ready to be rolled out to all users, but are good enough for a select subset of users who like to try out new things. according to cnet's natali d... entertainment in case you forgot: ie6 still holds 25% of the browser market written by stan schroeder over 10 years ago time flies fast, and new browsers replace old ones. firefox, chrome, safari, opera and, of course, even internet explorer have been upgraded and updated countless times in the last couple of years. all of this makes it easy to forget what browser is ... entertainment livestrong day: 5 ways to get involved written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago today, friday, october 2, 2009, is livestrong day 2009. the event is a part of the livestrong action campaign designed to bring together people from all over the world to celebrate survivorship, commit to fighting cancer, spread the word, and work to... entertainment 2016 olympics announcement: the web's abuzz [live video] written by christina warren over 10 years ago update: rio de janeiro has won the ioc vote and will be hosting the 2016 olympic games. they beat out chicago, tokyo, and madrid. - the web is abuzz with news regarding the ioc's announcement for the location of 2016 olympic games. rio de janeiro and... entertainment rumor: apple to launch new touch-sensitive mighty mouse written by ben parr over 10 years ago if you're an apple imac owner, you're probably familiar with the mighty mouse, apple's buttonless device launched in 2005. the iconic white mouse with the squeeze sensors and the tiny clickable track ball may have been a unique direction in mouse tec... entertainment 3 great social media policies to steal from written by jennifer van grove over 10 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. as social media continues to become more mainstream, the chances that your... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 20 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.