we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for october 2007 entertainment krillion's stockcheck offers real time search data written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago krillion, the local search service for purchase-ready buyers, is adding a new feature called stockcheck. this will display the in-store availability for items you're searching. the data for inventory is real-time, so this should make it much easier f... entertainment playyoo's mobile gaming community launches with contest for developers written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago london-based playyoo is getting ready to launch an online community for mobile game creators and players. in preparation for this upcoming community, playyoo is offering up its sdk to independent mobile game developers using adobe flash lite technolo... entertainment adobe to acquire makers of web-based word processor buzzword written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago adobe systems has acquired virtual ubiquity, the parent company of the buzzword web-based word processing software. buzzword was built using adobe flex and runs in the adobe flash player, making it a logical fit for the software company. additionally... entertainment ebay desktop runs on air written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago ebay is another company that's created a new tool on adobe air, and will be announcing it at the adobe max event this week. the new product is called ebay desktop and it of course runs both online and offline. previously referred to by the code name ... entertainment skype co-founder resigns as ceo written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago niklas zennstrom, who co-founded skype and had served as ceo since ebay acquired the company, has resigned. he will remain as the non-executive chairman of skype’s board of directors. michael van swaaij will become interim ceo of skype. previously, v... entertainment microsoft office live workspace coming soon written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago microsoft has announced its competitor to google docs & spreadsheets: microsoft office live workspace. rather than offer a web-based version of all of its office products, office live workspace will be an extension of microsoft’s leading desktop appl... entertainment radiohead to let fans pick the price for new album written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago radiohead will be offering its newest album by digital download, allowing fans to pay whatever they think is a fair price for their newest 10 songs. the band will allow users to pay a minimum of 1 pence (plus a 45p credit card processing fee) to down... entertainment former googlers team up to launch friendfeed written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago friendfeed is a new service that applies the concept of the facebook news feed to see what your friends are sharing on various web sites. for example, you can see what songs your friends are listening to on last.fm, what movies they have added to the... entertainment bbc worldwide acquires lonely planet written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago bbc worldwide, the international arm of bbc, has acquired lonely planet, the australia-based travel information group. the amount of the deal was not disclosed, but lonely planet founders tony and maureen wheeler get to keep a 25% share in the compan... entertainment wikinvest gets $2.5m in series a round written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago wikinvest, the wiki community for stock junkies, is officially launching today, with $2.5 million in a series a round of funding, led by dcm venture capital firm. you'll remember that wikinvest operates around individual contributions to information ... entertainment blinkx signs content deal with celebtv written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago video search engine blinkx has signed a deal to index content from entertainment site celebtv. celebtv publishes daily hollywood news in video format, ranging from celebrity gossip to fashion tips. under the deal, celebtv’s video content will be now ... entertainment nokia acquires navteq gps for $8.1 billion! written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago nokia has announced its plans to acquire digital mapping company navteq for $8.1 billion. the acquisition of chicago-based navteq is pending approval by regulators and navteq shareholders. i imagine this won't be a problem for shareholders as the pri... entertainment bebo and atlantic records to place music act in katemodern written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago bebo and atlantic records uk have formed a partnership to integrate the band “the days” into episodes of “katemodern,” the web-based drama that airs exclusively on the social networking site. the marketing effort is set to coincide with the release o... entertainment yahoo onesearch powering telefonica's mobile search written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago yahoo! onesearch will now be the search engine partner for powering telefonica's local subsidiaries' mobile search. the deal also entails telefonica's integration of flickr and yahoo mail into its mobile internet offerings. telefonica's mobile portal... entertainment podango adds kiptronic's video advertising network written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago podango, the online video network, has partnered with kiptronic, the podcasting ad network. the deal will integrate kiptronic's dynamic ad insertion into its p2 platform for publishers, and both companies will be selling advertising in each others' n... entertainment hook up facebook friends with datesgowild written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago betsgowild has launched its second facebook application: this one is for dating. the application is designed to help break the ice between you and your date, and the fun part is seeing what your friends think about the match ups. datesgowild lets you... entertainment lookabee's facebook apps for teachers written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago lookabee has also launched a platform for teachers to create their own facebook applications to keep in touch with students. this pilot program is being spearheaded by james levy, a former developer for box.net. the applications will enable teachers ... entertainment mashable-sponsored mashup challenge starts today written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago the mashup challenge launches today, and mashable is a sponsor, so we thought you might be interested. ;) this quarterly contest is designed to encourage innovation for mashups, and push a higher standard for these applications. participants get 90 d... entertainment technorati names new ceo written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago blog search engine technorati has just named a new ceo: richard jalichandra. jalichandra replaces dave sifry, who resigned as ceo abruptly in august before a replacement had even been named. previously, jalichandra was serving as an entrepreneur-in-r... entertainment trillian astra integrates web services with user profiles written by cristina ledesma over 12 years ago trillian astra, a multi-protocol instant messaging client from cerulean studios, now allows its alpha testers to spice up their profile with links to their accounts on different web services including bebo, facebook, flickr, and myspace. these web se... entertainment microsoft prepares to launch second generation zune written by andy angelos over 12 years ago bill gates will join design and development chief j allard to introduce a next generation zune at an event in redmond tomorrow. both gates and allard are expected to discuss long-term strategy for the zune and also introduce several new features. mos... entertainment microsoft launches startup fund in london written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago microsoft has launched a uk startup fund called the microsoft startup accelerator programme. it's designed to work with startups in the uk that are interested in using some of microsoft's products, like silverlight and live services, which is microso... entertainment at&t censors negative comments from customers written by andy angelos over 12 years ago reading the fine print on at&t's new terms of service contract is not a priority for most customers. this may change, however, since the communications provider can apparently disconnect your service for spreading negative messages through blog posts... entertainment glowday's over-indulged survey widgets written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago glowday is a survey widget creation tool and community. the site is currently in private beta, and it should stay that way for a little while longer. there are tons of features for creating and customizing your own survey widget, but the actual creat... entertainment facebook wins dispute over face-book.com domain name written by andy angelos over 12 years ago facebook lawyers recently succeeded in a domain dispute with an outfit from the isle of mann named yolapt - a company which filled the url face-book.com with advertisements for "russian brides" and "older women." yolapt registered the domain several ... entertainment youtube & hp filmmakers contest starts friday written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago project direct is a joint project being launched on youtube and sponsored by hewlett-packard. aspiring filmmakers are invited to submit short films between 2 and 7 minutes long. the contest runs from october 7 to november 9, 2007, and the seven count... entertainment google's crumbling answer to privacy groups: break it up. written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago during an address to the senate regarding its pending acquisition of advertising company doubleclick, google has proposed a "crumbled cookies" approach to the retention of personal data. this means that information gathered from an individual compute... entertainment windows live tweaks ad algorithm to focus on quality written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago windows live is making some changes to its live search as part of the live search 2.0 launch, which make the algorithm for ad placement more flexible to match the increasingly dynamic market for ads. these changes are based on quality ranking, where ... entertainment united arab emirates block facebook written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago the uae’s major isp, etisalat, appears to have blocked facebook. users are reportedly seeing either an arabic message explaining the block (shown below), or simply seeing a bogus 404 page when attempting to access facebook. earlier this year, the uae... entertainment harvard grads prep to lampoon facebook written by sean p. aune over 12 years ago mark zuckerberg may not have graduated from harvard, but his schoolmates sure haven't forgotten him. in a reported five-figure deal, two recent harvard grads, greg atwan and evan lushing, are prepping a satire of facebook. while there are not many de... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 32 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.