we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for june 2013 world huge asteroid cruises past earth written by space.com almost 7 years ago an asteroid wider than nine ocean liners sailed safely past earth today (may 31), making its closest flyby of our planet for at least the next 200 years. asteroid 1998 qe2, which is about 1.7 miles (2.7 kilometers) wide, cruised within 3.6 million mi... entertainment facial-recognition app can help identify missing children written by vignesh ramachandran almost 7 years ago a new app aims to make finding missing children in the most populated country in the world a little bit easier and more of a collective effort. advertising agency jwt china and missing children site baby back home have jointly developed an app in chi... world nikola tesla statue could be built in silicon valley written by vignesh ramachandran almost 7 years ago to commemorate a true innovator, a california company wants to get a statue of nikola tesla erected in silicon valley. tesla discovered various innovations in sectors including electromagnetics, electricity and earthquake machinery. in honor of tesla... entertainment will facebook's account verification system discourage impostors? written by adam popescu almost 7 years ago when victor diaz zapanta was featured on mashable for his facebook account's creative timeline design, he was excited. but that sweet feeling soon soured slightly when the 29-year-old designer's account was parodied by impostors claiming to be him. i... entertainment 'prancercise' may be the weirdest workout you'll ever see written by sam laird almost 7 years ago a video touting a workout called "prancercise" went viral this week, with much of the attention snarky. but its creator says she isn't phased. business cookening connects tourists with locals through home-cooked meals written by veena bissram almost 7 years ago cookening offers a unique opportunity for travelers to eat fresh meals in the homes of locals in whatever city they're visiting. culture i'll see you in hell written by annie colbert almost 7 years ago empty threat or a spoiler alert about your future? "i'll see you in hell" is a phrase often uttered in anger, but in this comic by josh mecouch of formal sweatpants, we see that it can also work as a way to figure out who you'll be hanging out with f... entertainment 'chameleon scarf' changes colors to coordinate with your clothes written by vignesh ramachandran almost 7 years ago the weather outside may be warming up for some, but if you're looking for a somewhat warm and geeky addition to your wardrobe, check out this do-it-yourself scarf that changes colors via led lights. the diy electronics site adafruit has a tutorial fo... world oculus vr co-founder andrew scott reisse dead at 33 written by stan schroeder almost 7 years ago andrew scott reisse, co-founder and developer for the virtual reality company oculus vr, which makes the vr headset oculus rift, was killed during a police chase in santa ana, calif., abc reports. reisse was not involved in the incident; he was a bys... business why you should blog to get your next job written by jennifer parris almost 7 years ago today’s savvy job seekers are blogging their way to success -- and job opportunities. here’s why a blog can get you your next job. culture 1953 volkswagen beetle crunched into a shiny sphere written by charlie white almost 7 years ago look what indonesian artist ichwan noor has done to a heap of car parts, a few scraps of aluminum and some carefully crafted pieces of polyester. this tightly compressed sphere resembles a brand-new 1953 volkswagen beetle that was somehow balled up i... tech google glass won't have facial recognition apps yet written by eric larson almost 7 years ago google announced in a blog post that it will not be including facial recognition with google glass until "proper protections" are set in place. tech could this beautiful design concept be the iphone 5s? written by charlie white almost 7 years ago iphone speculators dream of a fingerprint scanner built into the iphone 5s, and our favorite apple conceptual artist federico ciccarese visualizes it. entertainment 15 digital media resources you may have missed written by elisha hartwig almost 7 years ago it has been another busy week in the digital world. catch up on the latest digital media resources with our weekly features roundup. tech google search app for ios gains location improvements, nutritional info written by appadvice almost 7 years ago google has just issued another update to its google search app on ios. according to its release notes, the update contains "location improvements & bug fixes." apparently, these pertain to how google now, which was built into the app about a month ag... culture put down the gadget, smartphone addicts written by annie colbert almost 7 years ago americans might seem glued to their smartphones, but a recent study found that on average, they only spend 58 minutes per day on their mobile gadgets. that's of course the average, meaning there's always mr. iphonzy mcandroid spending, like, 28 hours... business media brands gamble on untested youtube paid channels written by seth fiegerman almost 7 years ago when national geographic started looking into alternatives to cable, it found an as-yet-unreleased product that might be a good fit: youtube paid channels. the national geographic society was in a quandary. it knew it wanted to launch a video channel... u.s. take a tour of new york city in 1939 -- in color written by eric larson almost 7 years ago check out this nostalgic film of new york city in 1939 -- and because it's in color, it looks like it could have been shot yesterday. tech 'eyeborg' allows man to hear color written by eric larson almost 7 years ago a man who only sees black and white has created a device, called the 'eyeborg,' that turns colors into audible tones. tech 6 apps you don't want to miss written by emily price almost 7 years ago it can be tough to keep up with all the new apps released every week. but you're in luck -- mashable takes care of that for you, creating a roundup each weekend of our favorite new and updated apps. this week we found an app that lets you go on a 3d ... business why 'better place' failed with swappable batteries written by quartz almost 7 years ago elegies for high-profile tech startups typically depict their failure as oh-so-predictable. so it is with better place, an electric-car venture on which some of wall street's most seasoned hands lost a spectacular $812 million. but it is worth pausin... tech top 10 tech this week written by lorenzo franceschi-bicchierai almost 7 years ago the summer is almost here, and tech companies are probably looking forward to enjoying the beach as much as we all are. but that doesn't mean this wasn't another exciting week in the world of tech. and, once again, if you were distracted by the nice ... entertainment comprehensive 'doctor who' fashion guide: 1963 - 2013 written by charlie white almost 7 years ago now that the new doctor who season is here, for those true whovians, it's time to figure out the fashion sense of your favorite characters. this comprehensive doctor who fashion guide has all the info, even down to the percentage of time each color i... tech intel unveils first batch of haswell processors written by eric larson almost 7 years ago intel unveiled its first batch of haswell chips on saturday morning. entertainment whovians lament matt smith's exit from 'doctor who' written by anita li almost 7 years ago bow ties are cool, but goodbyes are not. matt smith, who stars as the eleventh doctor on bbc's popular sci-fi series doctor who, is leaving the show. bbc announced on saturday that smith will depart at "the end of this year" after appearing in doctor... tech minimalist stand is compatible with all smartphones written by anita li almost 7 years ago some iphone and galaxy users dread the next-generation release of their smartphones, as cases and other accessories automatically become obsolete. it's a first-world problem that one smartphone stand seeks to avoid with its "timeless" design. called ... business 5 tips to jumpstart your creativity written by nellie akalp almost 7 years ago whether you want to design a new product, devise a tagline for a client or solve a scheduling problem, creative thinking gives you an undeniable edge. however, we can't just summon creativity on a whim; when we need it most, it's nowhere to be seen. ... culture what's in a meme? written by anita li almost 7 years ago what's in a meme? online backup service mozy attempts to answers that question in an infographic that dissects these bite-size doses of internet culture. originally defined by scientist and author richard dawkins in 1976, "meme" is short for the gree... business this simple action will dramatically grow your linkedin network written by alexis grant almost 7 years ago if you’re on linkedin, you want to grow your network -- because there’s some serious career-boosting power in those connections. tech olloclip iphone lens and case is a winning dad’s day gift written by lance ulanoff almost 7 years ago the $99 package gets you better iphone lenses, a specialized cover and a tripod mount. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 49 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.