we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for may 2011 entertainment sony to resume playstation network services, says "no evidence" credit card info stolen written by ben parr almost 9 years ago sony will resume some playstation network services and beef up its security nearly two weeks after a hacker attack forced sony to shut it down. the company made the announcements during a press conference in tokyo. kaz hirai, sony's executive deputy ... entertainment how to: create a group tumblr blog written by sarah kessler almost 9 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. tumblr blogs are known for being easy to use and simple to set up. but the... entertainment obama ridicules trump with a smile [video] written by charlie white almost 9 years ago at saturday night's white house correspondents' dinner, president obama had a ballroom full of press luminaries laughing at donald trump, while saturday night live's seth meyers made sure the roasting was spread around to many of the media outlets th... entertainment top 10 twitter trends this month [chart] written by todd wasserman almost 9 years ago it looks like a match made in heaven -- the royal wedding and social media. the last such affair, back in 1981, was a tv-centric event, but this time around, spectators were also following along on their so-called second screens. the event broke live... entertainment how 3 companies took content marketing to the next level written by shane snow almost 9 years ago shane snow is a mashable contributor and cofounder of contently.com, an “agile publishing” platform for brands and professional bloggers. it goes by many names: branded content, custom publishing, content marketing. cheap and ubiquitous web technolog... entertainment apple to roll out new imacs? [report] written by charlie white almost 9 years ago at last, apple will refresh its line of imac all-in-one computers, adding the latest intel core i5/i7 "sandy bridge" architecture and that new thunderbolt port, according to reliable sources. the multiple sources, which appleinsider indicates have al... entertainment why location-based services will be the killer app of the 2012 elections written by todd wasserman almost 9 years ago the last presidential election was only three years ago, but that seems like a generation in the social media age. just think, back then twitter was a novelty. facebook was popular but spent the first half of the year being the second-biggest social ... entertainment how to: ask for an online recommendation written by sharlyn lauby almost 9 years ago sharlyn lauby, sphr, cplp, is the hr bartender, whose blog is a friendly place to discuss workplace issues. when not "bartending," sharlyn is president of internal talent management, which specializes in leadership training and human resources consul... entertainment review: pogoplug software creates a personal computing cloud written by charlie white almost 9 years ago pogoplug started its life as hardware -- plug a usb drive into it and access files from anywhere. now, there's a software version of pogoplug, substituting your windows, mac or linux machine for that hardware and letting you share pictures, music, vi... entertainment president obama delivers statement on death of osama bin laden [video] written by adam ostrow almost 9 years ago late sunday evening, president obama announced to the nation and the world that osama bin laden had been killed and the united states was in possession of his body. the announcement was livestreamed by the white house and on facebook, following about... entertainment the world responds to osama bin laden's death written by emily banks almost 9 years ago president barack obama announced live sunday night that osama bin laden is dead. people around the world have taken to social media channels to share the news and their feelings about it. a facebook page titled osama bin laden is dead has gone viral ... entertainment how did you hear about osama bin laden's death? [poll] written by ben parr almost 9 years ago osama bin laden has been killed. late sunday night, president barack obama explained to the world how a team of u.s. forces conducted a strategic strike that took out the al qaeda leader somewhere in pakistan. the u.s. government is in possession of ... entertainment osama bin laden is dead facebook page goes viral written by adam ostrow almost 9 years ago within about two hours of reports first surfacing (and since confirmed by the president) that osama bin laden had been killed, a facebook page titled “osama bin laden is dead” has already accumulated more than 150,000 “likes.” the page appears to be ... entertainment foursquare users check in to post-osama bin laden world written by brenna ehrlich almost 9 years ago after sunday night's announcement that osama bin laden is dead, foursquare users have -- in a ceremonial gesture -- started checking in to a world in which the al qaeda founder no longer exists. a quick search on foursquare in new york for "osama" re... entertainment crowds celebrate osama bin laden's death in nyc & washington, dc [pics] written by emily banks almost 9 years ago upon news of osama bin laden's death, crowds have gathered at ground zero in new york city and in times square to celebrate. photos of those celebrations have made their way onto twitter and facebook feeds. we've collected some of them here for you. ... entertainment timeline: how news of osama bin laden’s death unfolded on twitter written by brian anthony hernandez almost 9 years ago at 11:35 p.m. et sunday, the white house's twitter feed posted a quote from president barack obama that confirmed osama bin laden's death. but before obama uttered those words, twitter was abuzz with speculation and subsequent confirmation from offic... entertainment google maps shows where osama bin laden died [pics] written by jolie o'dell almost 9 years ago google maps has been updated with a pinpoint for "osama bin laden's compound" in northern pakistan. the terrorist, who was reported dead sunday night, was killed during a carefully coordinated u.s. military and intelligence operation. the plan to kil... entertainment one twitter user reports live from osama bin laden raid written by jolie o'dell almost 9 years ago without knowing what he was doing, sohaib athar, a.k.a. @reallyvirtual, has more or less just live-tweeted the raid in which terrorist osama bin laden was killed sunday. the it consultant resides in abbottabad, the town where bin laden was found and ... entertainment possible bin laden compound shown engulfed in flames [video] written by jolie o'dell almost 9 years ago in this raw footage from pakistan, a huge structure thought to be the compound of osama bin laden is shown engulfed in flames. this clip comes from a local news broadcast via the associated press, which reports that the building shown is quite possib... entertainment youtube to go beyond cat videos by training a new class of vloggers written by brenna ehrlich almost 9 years ago youtube has just announced which members will be inducted into youtube nextup and the youtube creator institute, efforts by the video-sharing site to add even more polish to its content. after a six-week search, youtube has chosen 45 content creators... entertainment finally, you can kiss people over the internet [video] written by stan schroeder almost 9 years ago tactile communications: it may not sound too exciting, but it's precisely the field of research that produced a device which lets users "transmit the feeling of a kiss" long-distance. the kajimoto laboratory at the university of electro-communication... entertainment blast ice with user-controlled water cannon in dunkin' donuts facebook game written by lauren indvik almost 9 years ago to promote the arrival of mountain dew's new coolatta beverage at dunkin' donuts locations, the two brands have created a facebook game that allows selected users to melt a cup of coolatta from a block of ice using a computer-controlled water cannon.... entertainment facebook & video chat app for playbook coming in may written by stan schroeder almost 9 years ago a native facebook app and a video chat app for blackberry playbook are coming in may, rim has announced. the facebook app will offer all the standard facebook bells and whistles, including viewing and adding friends, managing friend requests, browsin... entertainment mashable weekend recap: 30 stories you may have missed written by charlie white almost 9 years ago it turned out to be a news-filled weekend, especially with one of the biggest news events in years: the death of osama bin laden. missed our coverage? we've gathered a list of all the posts from the weekend, placing them right here for you: news and ... entertainment watch: world press freedom day conference [live] written by lauren indvik almost 9 years ago nearly two decades ago, the un general assembly proclaimed may 3 as world press freedom day as a reminder that free, independent press is essential to democracy and is a fundamental human right. in honor of that occasion, the united nations education... entertainment 5 valuable online communities for freelancers written by sharlyn lauby almost 9 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. many people are exploring the option of freelancing in today’s marketplace... entertainment julian assange: facebook is a spy machine [video] written by stan schroeder almost 9 years ago wikileaks founder julian assange touched on the subject of social networking in an interview with russia today, calling facebook "the most appalling spy machine that has ever been invented." assange said he believes facebook is a giant database of na... entertainment band offers album via interactive puzzle to avoid pirates written by brenna ehrlich almost 9 years ago let's face it: album leaks are wholly inevitable in the internet age, which is why more and more bands are finding creative ways to join 'em rather than beat 'em. one of those bands is manchester orchestra. it's giving fans a peek at its new album vi... entertainment win a ticket to google i/o 2011 [contest] written by meghan peters almost 9 years ago developers are hot on working with google platforms this year, as evidenced by the demand for tickets to google i/o 2011. the tech giant's fourth annual developer conference sold out in 59 minutes when passes went on sale february 7. if you're kickin... entertainment footage from inside osama bin laden’s compound emerges [video] written by adam ostrow almost 9 years ago video footage taken from inside the compound in pakistan where osama bin laden was killed has been posted online by abc news. the organization has also posted a gallery of photos from what’s described by correspondent nick schifrin as “a massive comp... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 30 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.