we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for april 2010 entertainment wolframalpha drops iphone app price by 96% to $1.99, offers refunds written by christina warren almost 10 years ago last year, wolframalpha made waves with its $50 iphone app; today the company is announcing a new overall strategy and it's starting by launching a new mobile optimized website and dropping the price of the iphone app to just $1.99. this is all part ... entertainment happy birthday, gmail! written by stan schroeder almost 10 years ago on april 1, 2004, gmail was launched as an invite-only beta, instantly creating a revolution in the webmail space. google's decision to keep their webmail invite-only kept spammers at bay, leading to the widespread perception that gmail is spam-proof... entertainment our choice: the funniest april fools jokes written by stan schroeder almost 10 years ago it's that date again, folks. if you've seen an amazing new service or something that sounds too good to be true, it probably is -- very few companies take april 1 seriously. reports of april fools jokes are pouring in; as we do every year, we'll ment... entertainment netflix streaming app coming to ipad written by stan schroeder almost 10 years ago from day one, the ipad has not only been touted as a device for reading e-books and magazines, but also for enjoying video content - despite the fact that it doesn't support the ubiquitous flash. now, netflix is one of the first to fulfill this promi... entertainment sneak peek: hundreds of approved ipad apps [video] written by stan schroeder almost 10 years ago the hunt for approved ipad apps has officially ended, as the folks from app advice managed to dig out hundreds of them from apple's database. you can browse the apps and see detailed info and a screenshot for each one, and although some of the descri... entertainment the future of tv?: the story behind crackle's "the bannen way" written by melissa jun rowley almost 10 years ago since the bannen way leapt into our monthly webisodes chart and was nominated for several streamy awards, we decided it would be a good idea to find out what the fuss is about. we caught up with the bannen way's executive producer and star mark gantt... entertainment former bebo ceo joins facebook written by adam ostrow almost 10 years ago facebook has just landed a big hire as it continues to expand its business around the globe: former bebo ceo joanna shields. according to the wall street journal, shields will lead the company’s sales and business development in europe, asia and the ... entertainment mashable's weekly job board listings in social media written by tamar weinberg almost 10 years ago if you're seeking a job in social media, we'd like to help out. for starters, mashable's job lists section gathers together all of our resource lists, how-tos and expert guides to help you get hired. in particular, you might want to see our articles ... entertainment abc and cbs to stream shows on ipad for free written by samuel axon almost 10 years ago both abc and cbs plan to stream their tv shows on the apple ipad just in time for its saturday launch, the wall street journal reports. they're each doing it a little differently, however. abc will use an app, while cbs shows will stream over the web... entertainment interview: meet the first person in line for the apple ipad [video] written by brenna ehrlich almost 10 years ago you think you're stoked for the release of the apple ipad? meet the famous greg packer, a retired highway maintenance worker from long island who also happens to be the first person in line at new york's fifth avenue apple store. packer is an apple e... entertainment apple launches site showcasing ipad video support written by christina warren almost 10 years ago if the lack of flash support on the ipad concerns you, be sure to check out apple's new page for video support. the page lists the major sites that will offer compatible video for its newest gadget. while the usual html5 sources (vimeo, youtube) are ... entertainment introducing: mashable's farmville channel written by ben parr almost 10 years ago the mashable team is thrilled to announce the launch of our farmville channel! millions of you play farmville -- so much so that you're spending your life savings on virtual crops. some of you are even getting yourselves fired because the game is so ... entertainment ipad apps start appearing in itunes written by christina warren almost 10 years ago apple has started to update the itunes store, adding ipad apps to its catalog! you can now browse through pages and pages of applications, see their pricing and click on descriptions to see screenshots and other information. while you can copy app st... entertainment how to get an ipad if you didn't pre-order one written by barb dybwad almost 10 years ago at this point you're either weary of ipad mania or you're squealing like a girl at a justin bieber concert over the apple tablet's impending launch. if you were on the fence enough to avoid pre-ordering but have changed your tune in the meantime, wha... entertainment 5 ways to go green for earth day with social media written by geoff livingston almost 10 years ago geoff livingston co-founded zoetica to focus on cause-related work, and released an award-winning book on new media now is gone in 2007. last week's world water day and earth hour began a big green spring online that will culminate in april 22nd's 40... entertainment butterfly attack: the making of qualcomm's viral april fool's day joke written by jennifer van grove almost 10 years ago on march 30, footage from two separate savage butterfly attacks was leaked to the web, stirring up speculation about "butterflies gone wild." earlier today, qualcomm held an emergency press conference to reveal that the two men attacked by the butter... entertainment facebook introduces community pages written by adam ostrow almost 10 years ago think the distinction between facebook profiles, pages and groups is confusing? add a new wrinkle to the mix: the facebook community page. the new feature looks a whole lot like the facebook pages businesses and brands create, but there’s one key dif... entertainment ipad gets half-hour of product placement on "modern family" [video] written by samuel axon almost 10 years ago american sitcom modern family ran an entire episode about the ipad this week. a character's birthday is april 3 — the same day the ipad launches — so his wife decides to try and get him an ipad. the episode begins with an impassioned pitch. "the ipad... entertainment google picks its favorite user-created 3d towns [video] written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago five teams from around the world have been selected as finalists from more than 100 entrants in google's model your town competition. now, it's up to you to vote for the best entry. the competition was announced in december 2009 as a way for citizens... entertainment amazon halts sales of some ebooks in publisher pricing war written by barb dybwad almost 10 years ago the amazon vs. apple digital book pricing war rages on as amazon halts sales of certain electronic titles from publishers penguin and hachette. the war began shortly after the ipad was first announced, when amazon halted sales of macmillan books in r... entertainment how to: integrate paid search and social media for better marketing results written by matt lawson almost 10 years ago matt lawson is director of marketing for marin software, provider of the leading enterprise-class paid search management application for advertisers and agencies. paid search and social media are both extremely important marketing channels. but how c... entertainment the muppets celebrate easter/darwinism with new cover [video] written by brenna ehrlich almost 10 years ago the muppets are at it again -- they're out with a new video, this one featuring big mean carl and bunch of bunnies covering ben e. king's "stand by me." i think it's supposed to be celebrating easter. or cannibalism. either one. the muppets have been... entertainment pandora passes 50 million member mark written by jennifer van grove almost 10 years ago online music streaming service pandora hit a major milestone today -- 50 million registered listeners. the news comes just days before the company's sleek-looking ipad app is set to debut on apple's new tablet device, extending the service's reach to... entertainment facebook is now #1 searched for brand in u.s. written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago facebook has eclipsed amazon, walmart, netflix and even google as the foremost brand name in web searches from u.s. users, according to research from hitwise. in terms of both traffic and revenue, facebook has been leaving other social networking sit... tech 6 ways gmail revolutionized e-mail written by pete cashmore almost 10 years ago today is gmail's birthday, marking 6 years since google brought us more email storage than ever before, replaced folders with "labels", and introduced threaded conversations for easier email consumption. how did gmail change webmail? and were these c... entertainment developers scramble to build ipad apps [stats] written by adam ostrow almost 10 years ago although stats yesterday indicated that developer interest in the ipad (perhaps to-be-expected) has fallen off somewhat since it was first announced, another report today from mobile analytics firm flurry indicates that the ipad has completely shaken... entertainment twitter starts featuring popular tweets in search results written by adam ostrow almost 10 years ago twitter has turned on a new feature in search that lets user filter for what the microblogging service is calling “top results.” as opposed to strictly showing the most recent mentions of a given query, users now have an option to click a “top result... entertainment david letterman gets an ipad, dedicates top ten to it [video] written by adam ostrow almost 10 years ago apple’s ipad media blitz continues this evening, with the tablet device set to be showed off on the late show with david letterman. tonight’s top ten list is dubbed "top ten questions to ask yourself before waiting in line for the ipad,” and is tease... entertainment postling raises funding to focus on social media tools for small business written by jolie o'dell almost 10 years ago social media management app postling has achieved a measure of startup success, rethinking its user base and closing a $350,000 angel round, all within just a few months. a member of philadelphia-based accelerator dreamit venture's fall 2009 class, p... business greenscroll aims to offset your website's carbon footprint written by jennifer van grove almost 10 years ago this post is part of mashable’s spark of genius series, which highlights a unique feature of startups. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. the series is made possible by microsoft bizspark. na... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 24 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.