we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for april 2008 entertainment emma cott takes your profile offline written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins almost 12 years ago one of the recurring themes of our site is convergence (makes sense, with a name like mashable). i could give at least thirty examples of convergence between two or more different mediums or services that have been mentioned in the last couple of day... entertainment piratebay now operating from sinai desert written by stan schroeder almost 12 years ago man, they just keep on coming. apparently, the swedish copyright law has been abruptly changed, which prompted those gnarly pirates from the piratebay to move their operation to desert of sinai in egypt. here's a bit of nitty gritty tech info for all... entertainment scribd converting paper to ipaper, free written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago scribd sent us an announcement yesterday that it insisted is not an april fool's joke. the youtube for documents, as it's been lovingly dubbed, is now letting you send in your physical paper documents so that scribd can scan them and upload them to y... entertainment our choice: 5 funniest april fools jokes written by stan schroeder almost 12 years ago ok, it's now officially too overwhelming to keep covering all the jokes that are sprouting up everywhere, so i've decided to make a quick selection of some i find particularly well executed. 5. destructoid turns to foxtoid - the folks at destructoid ... entertainment microsoft: weak economy will force yahoo's hand written by paul glazowski almost 12 years ago yahoo’s ceo and company board have pledged for several weeks now to refuse microsoft’s semi-hostile bid, first made public in early february. they’ve stated with great conviction that the $44.6 billion cash-and-stock offer undervalues its operations,... entertainment startupwear: because there are 5x more entrepreneurs than vcs written by adam ostrow almost 12 years ago while it could easily be confused with yet another april fool’s joke, startupwear is actually debuting a fairly amusing set of t-shirts today that most anyone who has worked at a startup can appreciate. the company’s pitch: “we figure there are at le... entertainment microsoft live search launches new features for mobiles written by stan schroeder almost 12 years ago microsoft has unveiled a couple of upcoming live search features for windows mobile and blackberry based smartphones. these include mapping contacts, map collections, weather info and voice input. specifically, mapping contacts means you can see the ... entertainment mashmeet la 2.0: final recap, pictures, video, and thanks written by adam hirsch almost 12 years ago many thanks to everyone who came and made our mashmeet la 2.0 a smashing success! before we get to the pictures and recap, i wanted to give personal thanks to andrew warner of mixergy for helping me put the event together, karen hartline of community... entertainment garmin teams up with google and mapquest for simple data transfers written by paul glazowski almost 12 years ago do you prefer google maps for your business searches and for charting driving directions? many of you that participated in a past poll said as much. how about aol’s mapquest? either choice is fine with garmin. in parallel press releases delivered thi... entertainment yousendit sitedrop: embeddable file-sending written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago yousendit was already among the simplest ways to send electronic files to friends and colleagues, and now the company is looking to make sending and receiving options even easier. a new feature being released today is called sitedrop. think of it as ... entertainment cbs to broadcast live radio streams via last.fm written by paul glazowski almost 12 years ago cbs is planning to expand its online radio stream offerings by installing a new, integrated player within its last.fm property. this news follows a deal made in late january to allow last.fm users access to a large catalogue of music from the world’s... entertainment youmail adds voice transcription: read your voicemails written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago youmail, the voicemail service that lets you record personalized voicemail greetings for assigned friends (and will also hang up on your exes for you), is rolling out a new feature for its site. the latest option is voice-to-text transcription that w... entertainment whereistand pits you against the candidates written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago with the current political season reaching its peak, there are a number of opinion-related sites that have taken advantage of the debating nature of an election year, even if the debates aren't about political issues. some sites like rivals4ever are ... entertainment the daily poll: should craigslist shutdown its erotic services sections? written by adam ostrow almost 12 years ago last week, connecticut’s attorney general sent a letter to craigslist demanding the site cleanup what he described as “widespread public reports of prostitutes using the site,” according to thomas claburn at infoworld. at issue are the “erotic servic... entertainment recommendationbox should take my advice: open up! written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago recommendationbox is a very closed site for offering private recommendations to select friends, and requesting recommendations from your personal network. i know that there are a lot of sites out there that aim to provide a recommendation tool for va... entertainment outbrain publicly launches blog rating and recommendation service written by adam ostrow almost 12 years ago outbrain is now open to the public, allowing any blogger to sign up and add the company’s rating and content recommendation widget to their site. if you frequent centernetworks or digital inspiration, you’ve probably seen outbrain’s widget in use - i... entertainment the blogosphere plays musical chairs written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins almost 12 years ago this afternoon, grant robertson announced to the world that it was with a mix of sorrow and anticipation that he's leaving the download squad, and headed over to join robert scoble at fast company as the producer for shel israel's global neighborhood... entertainment phone.com streamlines voip for business [the startup review] written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago startup details: company name: phone.com company website: http://www.phone.com 20 word description: phone.com offers cool new communications services, with a special focus on the infrastructure and budget needs of small businesses and households. ceo... entertainment popbandit's social recommendations for just about anything written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago i thought i was done with personal recommendations site reviews today, but alas, another has revealed itself in my inbox. this one is called popbandit, and it's taken the questionnaire motif as its own for getting a user started. i don't have any pro... entertainment sgn game feed and upcoming myspace game bar written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago the social gaming network's latest release was the sgn game bar for facebook platform developers to cross-market their sgn games, and now sgn is taking another cue from facebook and adding in its own updating feed system. called the game feed, game p... entertainment john furrier says google's cio is leaving for emi written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins almost 12 years ago there's more brain drain going on over at google, as john furrier put it earlier this afternoon. we've reported on our fair share of leavings from the search giant, but this one is particularly puzzling, even for an auspicious day like today. google'... entertainment magnify's vidyup uploads to youtube, with a widget written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago since the release of the latest youtube api set, we've seen a good number of applications and integration scenarios that have come about as a result. i love the vast array in which developers and companies like flixwagon are utilizing the youtube api... entertainment frengo's mobile toolkit makes your opensocial apps mobile written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago mobile media company frengo has revealed its opensocial mobile toolkit today, enabling developers to "share" their existing applications from other opensocial participating networks for mobile use. in order to support this, frengo has created an open... entertainment pingercast: voicemail "spam" tool for bloggers written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago pinger already had voicemail "blast" options that allowed you to send a single voice message to a large group of friends, but now pinger is looking to make that service better integrated on the self-publishing end of business. typically when we see t... entertainment nuance levels challenge at spinvox written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins almost 12 years ago nuance communications, a leading provider of speech solutions (dragon naturally speaking, anyone?), today announced their bid to take on the money gobbling spinvox in the field of voicemail-to-text services. we've covered spinvox here at mashable a n... entertainment smcb: bank robber friends investigator on myspace written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins almost 12 years ago the people that track this sort of thing are always coming up with stories along these lines. there's always a moron, idiot, el stupido, or some other form of mentally deficient criminal being caught because of his actions on a social network, but ne... entertainment $5 million for facebook causes written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins almost 12 years ago project agape, named for the ancient greek word for unconditional love, is the organization behind the causes application, something that you, if you're a facebook user, likely were guilted into sticking into your list of installed applications at on... entertainment the campaign to set magenta free written by stan schroeder almost 12 years ago if you, like me, are an avid reader of engadget mobile, you may have noticed that t-mobile had sent them a nasty notice demanding that they stop using the color magenta in the part of their logo. because, you know, magenta is taken, and you can't use... entertainment huffington post valuable? written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins almost 12 years ago in an ever increasing run of posts in which the title poses seemingly innocuous questions about the liberal blog huffington post, today the topic of the actual value for the huffington post comes to question. at this point, it's clear that ariana huf... entertainment buy stuff on amazon with an sms written by stan schroeder almost 12 years ago is the urge to buy stuff so strong that we can't even wait to get home and do it online? apparently, it is. amazon has launched textbuyit, a service that lets you search for and buy items on amazon directly from your mobile. the process is quite simp... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 21 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.