we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for september 2007 entertainment easter egg: flight simulator hidden within google earth written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago amazing but true: as spotted by marco, google has hidden a mini flight simulator within google earth. to access it for the first time, hit ctrl+alt+a in windows or command+option+a on the mac. you need the latest version of google earth, and i needed... entertainment who invented facebook...and who cares? written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago aaron greenspan is so important that at age 24, he has already written an autobiography. in it, he explains how he - not mark zuckerberg or the connectu founders - was the original creator of facebook, a site now worth many billions of dollars. "this... entertainment readr: latest news feed aggregator written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago we recently covered 20 ways to aggregate your social networking profiles. well, make that 21: readr is a very simple tool that lets you add all your feeds from around the web and list the updates in one place, known as the "news feed". plenty of web ... entertainment notifir social news tracker enters public beta written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago notifir, the "digg tracker" that kristen reviewed earlier this month while it was in private beta, is launching publicly today. so if you were keen to test it, you can now. from her original notifir review: notifir is an upcoming service that lets yo... entertainment i invented facebook written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago in light of recent controversies over who exactly invented facebook, i think now is the time to come clean: i did. not mark zuckerberg, not the connectu folks and certainly not the latest claimant to the idea: aaron greenspan. it began back in 1997, ... entertainment web 2.0 marketplace listings for september 1st, 2007 written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago happy september 1st. here are the latest listings from the web 2.0 marketplace. new today wanted: talented developers - web 2.0 startup does the prospect of building a really cool web service used by millions of people excite you? do yo... recent lis... entertainment babelgum launches film festival written by sean p. aune over 12 years ago spike lee, noted filmmaker of such films as do the right thing and malcolm x, is lending his name and talents to babelgum's online film festival. starting today, and running through february 15th, 2008, filmmaker's can submit their works to babelgum.... entertainment i kick you: flash gaming for facebook written by sean p. aune over 12 years ago pic to game, the service that allows users to create their own flash games, has launched their first facebook app, a game called "i kick you". the app combines flash technology and the social networking aspects of facebook to allow you create a game ... entertainment 20 wordpress 4-column themes written by stan schroeder over 12 years ago are four columns too much? not if you have a really great wordpress theme that'll really use the space well. if it also manages to be pleasing to the eye, you've got a winner. unfortunately, these themes are quite rare and hard to find, but not any m... entertainment are you getting quechup spammed? written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago one controversial issue among social networks is how hard they should push for user acquisition. most social networks these days let you to import your email address book in some way (twitter is the latest), but most make it clear if they're about to... entertainment web 2.0 invites for september 2nd, 2007 written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago free invites to web 2.0 sites. you can request more sites to add at invites.mashable.com. new today mogad invites mogad allows people to share information on what is consuming their attention. it depends on a brows... freebase invites freebase.com is... entertainment cnet's tv.com facebook application rates & reviews shows written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago cnet has created a facebook application for one of its subsidiaries, tv.com. with this application you can rate and review television shows. check out the shows that have been reviewed by others, read comments, add your own two cents, and find new fr... entertainment blipback: video commenting widget written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago blipback is a new site that lets you offer video comments on your website, blog or social networking profile page. this service integrates with your webcam to enable video comments. the widget player is very similar to what you'll see with most video... entertainment lazylibrary: find books instantly written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago lazylibrary, which will launch on monday, is a niche search engine that looks specifically for books that are 200 pages and less. in order to help you find the most concise and effective books, lazylibrary provides a resource for books that aren't to... entertainment nirvanix to launch b2b online storage: amazon s3 competitor? written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago nirvanix, which will announce its launch of wednesday, is a new company that's looking to offer online storage applications specifically for the developer community, and small businesses needing storage options for web-based services. whether you're ... entertainment the web food guide: 50+ sites to learn about food written by sean p. aune over 12 years ago whether you've just arrived at college, or moved to a new city for your first job, after the dust settles, you need to know how to cook for yourself, make reservations, or even how to pick a nice wine (if you are of legal drinking age). for the labor... entertainment paypal be damned: google patents "gpay" written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago amid ongoing problems with paypal's subscription service, a google patent has come to light related to mobile payments. the so-called "gpay" patent doesn't propose a direct paypal competitor, however: instead, it covers a text message-based payments ... entertainment multiply launching multiply toolbar written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago social network multiply is set to launch a browser toolbar for internet explorer and firefox. myspace, facebook and other large networks have toolbars already (facebook's is official, myspace's isn't), and multiply's will do much the same thing:let y... entertainment windows live installer launches this week written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago microsoft's much discussed attempt to connect cloud storage and services with the desktop may finally come together this week. the nytimes reports that the company will launch an optional unified installer that provides access to many windows live se... entertainment pownce gets new features written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago pownce announced a series of new features today. among them, upcoming event notifications ("see the next five upcoming events you’ve been sent"), automatic video embedding for youtube, google, metacafe, revver and vimeo (add a link and an embed will ... entertainment wi-fi toolbox: 30+ ways to find wi-fi hotspots written by daksh sharma over 12 years ago san francisco's wi-fi plans may have gone off the rails, but there are plenty of ways to find wi-fi hotspots. here are more than 30 tools that can help. community and location-based sites bt openzone - users can surf broadband internet with their wi-... entertainment google to launch google wiki written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago jotspot, the wiki service that was acquired by google nearly a year ago, looks to be moving towards completion in the process of becoming a google application. as of yesterday, jotspot is a google apps service code name, and its help and support page... entertainment contactoffice launches new public beta written by sean p. aune over 12 years ago contactoffice, a web office suite, is announcing that it has upgraded its online office suite to version 2.0 after months of development. it launches at the office 2.0 conference in san francisco. the newly upgraded platform is completely powered by ... entertainment fuelmyblog launches blog ranking community written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago fuelmyblog is a community for bloggers looking to get more traffic by participating in this uk-based network. similar to technorati, fuelmyblog is a hub for blogs. adding your blog to the network lets you participate in the community in hopes of incr... entertainment joost acquires onthetoob for custom show rss feeds written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago joost has reportedly acquired onthetoob, which is a programming guide keeping users up to date on joost's internet television shows. created by a joost beta user, there are pre-determined rss feeds as well as customized channels and rss feeds for joo... entertainment digg's missing pictures can be found here written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago from the guy that brought us reddit media, there's now a similar offering for digg, called digpicz. unlike reddit media, digpicz's focus on images only, since digg already has a dedicated video section. the site is of course an answer for the large d... entertainment opera gears up to release opera 9.5 alpha, with several upgrades written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago opera is getting ready to launch its alpha version of opera 9.5 tomorrow, and some of the new features indicate that this upcoming release will prove to be significant. the rendering engine for opera 9.5, nicknamed kestrel, has been greatly improved,... entertainment propertyqube launches disconnected real estate community written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago propertyqube is a new community for people interested in all aspects of property. from contractors to renters, home owners and landlords, propertyqube has created a network for conversations to be started between all of these aspects of property. for... entertainment booksconnect aims to bring authors & readers together written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago countrybook, a uk-based online store for local books, has launched a social network for its service, in an effort to connect the various aspects of book buying, selling, recommending, and promotion. with the new network, entitled booksconnect, you ca... entertainment clearspring adds facebook to widget distribution options written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago clearspring, the widget creation and distribution platform, now supports distribution to facebook. the application wizard lets you create flash widgets for facebook applications, along with the other networks like myspace, netvibes, etc. as clearspri... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 28 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.