we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for october 2006 entertainment bebo mobile coming written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago there's long been talk of a mobile version of bebo, the popular social network. now it seems that bebo mobile is a step closer - mobile phone group o2 is in talks with the company, although discussions are still at the early stages. there were rumors... entertainment mashable's sponsors are the bestest written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago mashable's sponsors are almost certainly the best sponsors in the world - and some of them are even better than that. so once again it's time to say thanks to the people who keep the lights on around here. pageflakes - i was dead wrong about pageflak... entertainment nakama - post mobile photos to myspace, blogs written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago toronto startup nakama is another new media-sharing site for mobile phones - essentially a more mobile version of webshots or youtube. the service, which launched last week, supports mobile uploading of images and videos from your phone via a unique ... entertainment unfaced founder banned from facebook written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago unfaced, a service that tracks visitors to your facebook page, has received a cease and desist letter from facebook - the founder's account has also been suspended. the action followed a profile of the service in school newspaper the daily texan last... entertainment fivelimes - social shopping goes green written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago fivelimes, a canadian startup that will begin inviting users very soon, is a social bookmarking site for eco-friendly products. the launch of yet another social bookmarking service is usually welcomed by a yawn from bloggers, but fivelimes is unique ... entertainment mothersclick to launch a mommy-based myspace written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago mothersclick, which launches on october 17th, is a new social network for moms. it combines a bunch of separate social features - groups/forums, tagging, a question and answer service ala yahoo answers and blogs - all tied together with a nice design... entertainment myspace blocking stickam written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago in another bamboozling move, myspace has now blocked stickam webcam codes. at the end of last week, the team reported that newly-created stickam widgets wouldn't work on myspace, and yesterday i was forwarded an email (thanks james) from stickam that... entertainment facebook trapped by microsoft ad deal written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago facebook will have to pay a "break up" fee to microsoft if it sells to another company, according to an article that will appear in tuesday's nypost. the clause was part of the microsoft-facebook ad deal struck back in august, following a similar dea... entertainment myspace launches fox full throttle written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago fox expanded its fox on demand service today, offering streaming versions of fox shows through myspace and the websites of local fox tv stations. the shows are ad-supported and you'll need to download the fox full throttle player to view them - this ... entertainment google gadgets on blogs and webpages written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago google just announced that google gadgets, which were previously for use on the google personalized homepage and google desktop, can now be embedded on your own webpage. the new "universal gadgets" include google maps, google calendar, a date widget,... entertainment organizedwisdom launches social network for health written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago organizedwisdom, which launches officially today, is a new social network for health information. the site was co-founded by steven krein, who took his internet marketing firm promotions.com to an ipo in 1999, followed by a sale to ivillage. the site... entertainment meez and paltalk team up written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago the only way for avatar-based services to survive is to gain distribution with as many social platforms as possible. as a result, your weemee is now available on aim, and sitepal are trying to push their talking characters for use on myspace and blog... entertainment filmloop 2.0 makes slideshows slicker written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago filmloop, the downloadable application that makes slideshows to share on your desktop, blogs, myspace and ebay, is set to launch a 2.0 version later this month. the new stuff is very impressive, but you may have to wait until launch day to try it out... entertainment walmart's myspace clone dead on arrival written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago thehub, walmart's ill-fated attempt at building a social network for kool kidz who just happen to like shopping at walmart, has gone offline. the site, which was up for 10 weeks, tried to keep content wholesome, and featured profiles and videos from ... entertainment statsync - new myspace tracker written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago since i gave coverage to trakzor's relaunch, it's worth mentioning that statsync, a new myspace tracker, launched at the end of september. like trakzor, and the facebook equivalent unfaced (which facebook is trying to put a stop to), statsync tracks ... entertainment notecentric - social notes for school written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago notecentric is a new service for university students that helps you to collaborate on school notes. only members with a .edu email address can sign up, but there's a demo account for testing. launched in a very basic form 5 weeks ago, it's a one-man ... entertainment bebo to become uk's most searched for brand written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago bebo has been picking up steam in the uk market, overtaking myspace earlier this year (see myspace vs bebo). now the stat-reporting company hitwise has released stats to show that the social network is gaining rapidly on ebay in terms of search volum... entertainment new google groups arrives written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago google groups is one of those dated social sites that many of us have forgotten about as the social networking trend takes hold. nonetheless, the site has stuck around, and a new beta version was released today at groups-beta.google.com. the new stuf... entertainment fotolog gets $4m, just keeps on growing written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago fotolog, the photo-sharing site that's popular in latin america, announced today that they've raised $4 million in third round funding bv capital and 3i - the total raised is now $12 million. with only 4 million users joining over a period of 4 years... entertainment babbello should have more than 30,000 users written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago aussie social network babbello , which launched 11 months ago, announced today that it has reached 30,000 members. but for those who are used to seeing venture-backed startups like tagworld add millions of users within the same time frame (and still ... entertainment lonelybloggers releases dating service for bloggers written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago lonelybloggers, which went live last week but is still undergoing heavily development, is a dating service for bloggers. the idea is that you can connect your profile page with your blog, facebook, myspace and friendster accounts, or create a blog on... entertainment youtube quicklist: new feature written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago youtube just went down for a few hours for a feature upgrade - when it came back up a few minutes ago, the most obvious new feature is quicklists. by clicking the "+" button on any thumbnail, you can instantly add it to your list. this seems to be st... entertainment viacom: we won't buy facebook, but maybe youtube written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago viacom has ruled itself out of the bidding for facebook, america's number two social network, while admitting that youtube is on to a good thing. during a tv interview with charlie rose, chairman sumner redstone said "we would not consider facebook, ... entertainment imagelooop creates myspace layout api written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago imagelooop is a slideshow provider with a product almost identical to slide.com, myspace slideshows, rockyou and filmloop. today they tried to step up their efforts by announcing a "myspace layout auto-embed api". the idea is that users can visit you... entertainment most myspace users over 35? written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago despite public perception, most myspace users are over 35, according to a release today by comscore. the stat-tracking company says that as myspace continues to grow, its user base is skewing older - teens accounted for around 25% of users in august ... entertainment myspace "founder" claims sale scandal written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago brad greenspan, the founder of myspace's parent company intermix, claimed today that intermix's sale of myspace to news corp defrauded shareholders out of tens of billions of dollars. he also claims it's "one of the largest merger and acquisition sca... entertainment mobunga launches video buffet for your ipod written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago mobunga, which launches today in public beta, is a guide to video downloads for the ipod, psp and mobile phones. but this isn't the youtube of mobile video - mobunga doesn't host or let you play videos, but rather provides a directory of videos hoste... entertainment polldaddy - more cool widgets that don't work on social networks written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago polldaddy, which launched today, is an extremely slick-looking site that provides polling widgets for blogs (although the girl in the screenshot is kinda scary). using the ajaxy interface, you can add questions and answers and drag the answers to dif... entertainment technorati launches a not-so-hot video blog written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago technorati, the blog search engine, has joined rennetto, lonelygirl15 and the rocketboom folks by launching a video blog. the technorati daily vlog will round up the "hot blogs, videos, photos, and games" of the last 25 hours. unfortunately, they're ... entertainment writetomyblog - easy posting to wordpress, blogger, typepad and movabletype written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago writetomyblog is a neat little tool that's suddenly getting a lot of attention. simply designed and intuitive, the service lets you create a post using the rich-text interface and post to multiple blogs or view and edit previous posts. just write you... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.