we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for december 2011 entertainment secret hack reveals new google bar [pics] written by charlie white over 8 years ago using google+? add mashable to your circles. you'll get the latest about new google+ features and tips and tricks for using the platform as well as top social media and technology news. you might have heard google is in the process of changing the de... entertainment hearst: we'll have more than 1 million paying digital subscribers in 2012 written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago david carey, president of magazine publisher hearst corp, expects the company will have more than 1 million paying digital subscribers by the end of 2012. "we do expect in 2012 at some point to be able to have more than a million on e-subscriptions,"... business can gamifying a restaurant get you better service? written by sarah kessler over 8 years ago the spark of genius series highlights a unique feature of startups and is made possible by microsoft bizspark. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. name: objective logistics quick pitch: object... tech your laptop's wi-fi might cause male fertility problems written by samantha murphy kelly over 8 years ago men, beware. the wi-fi from your laptop could be hurting the health of your sperm. a new study, published in the medical journal fertility and sterility by researchers from argentina and the u.s., found that semen samples placed a little more than an... entertainment carrier iq tracking scandal spirals out of control written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago carrier iq, a diagnostic tool installed in millions of smartphones all over the world, is gathering a lot of info about your activity - possibly even recording keystrokes, content of sms messages and more - and sending it to a third party. it's prese... entertainment pulitzer prizes go digital written by sam laird over 8 years ago let's face it: the future of journalism is online and digital. and now, as if that trend needed any more confirmation, journalism's highest honor has gone digital too. beginning with the 2012 pulitzer prizes -- recognizing work done during the calend... entertainment shaq's social media guru shares her secrets written by sam laird over 8 years ago shaquille o'neal -- all 7-plus feet and 300-plus pounds of him -- isn't just known for casting a huge shadow on the basketball court. he looms large in social media, too, as america's most-followed athlete (second in the world behind brazilian soccer... entertainment spy files: wikileaks releases surveillance industry documents written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago wikileaks on thursday released the first 287 documents from a database containing "hundreds" of documents from contractors in what wikileaks calls the "mass surveillance industry." for this project, wikileaks teamed up with bugged planet and privacy ... entertainment amazon launches spanish, italian kindles and stores written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago amazon has launched a spanish and italian kindle store with a large selection of spanish-language kindle books, as well the first spanish-language kindle. the spanish kindle store offers more than 900,000 titles, 22,000 of which are in spanish. some ... entertainment wikileaks releases surveillance documents, yahoo acquisition rumors heat up: today's top stories written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. we’re keeping our eyes on four particular stories of interest today. spy files: wikileaks releases surveillance ... entertainment angry birds launches first fully branded game 'the hunt for the golden pistachio' written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago the relationship between wonderful pistachios and rovio's angry birds entered a new level thursday with the launch of the hunt for the golden pistachio, the first fully branded angry birds game. the game, which rolled out thursday morning on getcrack... entertainment iphone tops yahoo's most-searched list for 2011 written by zoe fox over 8 years ago the iphone topped yahoo's u.s. top searches list for 2011, edging out casey anthony, kim kardashian and katy perry. it's the first time since 2002 a tech device has topped the list, when playstation 2 took the number one spot. “the iphone transcended... entertainment ben huh: what saved his life written by brian anthony hernandez over 8 years ago ben huh's popular cheezburger network websites -- fail blog, the daily what and i can has cheezburger? to name a few -- have filled web browsers with laugh-inducing content since 2007. but 10 years ago, huh's world hummed a far less cheerful tune. wi... entertainment yahoo stock jumps on acquisition rumors written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago yahoo's stock rose as much as 9% in pre-market trading thursday and more than 3% after the market opened as rumors surfaced that alibaba and softbank corp are in "advanced talks" to make a bid to acquire the company. the bid is rumored at $20 per sha... entertainment why schools need to get social, local and mobile written by troy williams over 8 years ago troy williams is vice president and general manager of macmillan new ventures, the global media company’s division that discovers, develops and markets innovative technologies that make learning more engaging. it’s not revelatory that the academic an... entertainment top 25 most-shared stories in november written by brian anthony hernandez over 8 years ago in a month that brought us "nerd new year" on 11/11/11, your share-happy fingers found interest in stories about the year's worst passwords, starbucks's interactive holiday cups and adobe's decision to cease production of its flash player. making a l... entertainment how web fonts are created written by kelli shaver over 8 years ago the fontography series is supported by join.me, the easiest way to have an online meeting. join.me lets you instantly share your screen with anyone, for free. use it to collaborate, demo, show off -- the possibilities are endless. try it today. creat... entertainment mashbash 2012 is coming to ces in las vegas written by jennifer diamond over 8 years ago we're excited to host one of our best parties of the year, mashbash, which celebrates the best of digital from the mashable awards winners at ces in las vegas. come have fun with the mashable community, industry leaders and digital influencers from t... entertainment zaarly app aims to deliver customers to small businesses written by sarah kessler over 8 years ago what started as a local market for odd jobs is also becoming a way for small businesses to find leads -- for free. peer-to-peer mobile marketplace zaarly has signed up 1,250 businesses in new york city to fill requests from its users, and it is launc... entertainment chrome leapfrogs firefox to become world's no. 2 browser written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago google's chrome surpassed mozilla's firefox as the world's number two browser behind microsoft's internet explorer last month, according statcounter. the findings, reported in the wall street journal, peg chrome's worldwide market share at 25.69% and... entertainment 4 tips for turning app downloaders into subscribers written by prasad thammineni over 8 years ago prasad thammineni is the ceo and co-founder of officedrop, a digital filing cabinet with scan-to-cloud apps for mac, pc, iphone, ipad and android. app stores aren’t just for selling games – they have also become increasingly important distribution ch... entertainment mcdonald's serves up big mac deal with livingsocial written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago mcdonald's 43-year-old big mac is getting more social this month with a livingsocial deal and a planned facebook app, among other initiatives. the livingsocial offer, which went live on thursday, offers a booklet of five big mac vouchers and five vou... entertainment one and (red) launch digital quilt to fight aids written by zoe fox over 8 years ago one and (red) have jointly launched (2015)quilt, a digital crowd-sourced tapestry built in html5, to bring people together behind the cause of an aids-free generation by 2015. the launch coincides with world aids day dec. 1 and the 30th anniversary o... entertainment 5 companies giving back online for the holidays written by zoe fox over 8 years ago the commerce with a conscience series is supported by fedex. fedex does more than shipping. they offer solutions like transporting heart valves to those in need and helping entrepreneurs bring their ideas to life. see how. the holiday season is under... entertainment apple: siri is not anti-abortion written by pete pachal over 8 years ago when it was discovered that siri, apple’s much-hyped voice assistant in the iphone 4s, would not reveal the location of abortion clinics when asked, many wondered if it meant apple was taking a stand in the divisive abortion debate. now apple has com... entertainment twitter's self-serve ad platform finally goes live written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago twitter's long-awaited self-serve ad platform was quietly introduced in november with a "handful" of advertisers, according to the company. the program, which twitter announced in april 2010, is available to anyone with a credit card who wants to tak... entertainment rip napster written by sam laird over 8 years ago it's finally time for file-sharing buffs to pour a little liquor on the ground for napster, the original gangster of major peer-to-peer music sharing sites. on thursday, napster will officially merge with rhapsody, the largest on-demand music service... entertainment 'call of duty: black ops zombies' comes to ios written by appadvice over 8 years ago call of duty’s popular zombie warfare mode has arrived as a separate ios app. call of duty: black ops zombies is available now for the iphone/ipod touch and ipad. created by activision publishing, inc., the $6.99 app is based on the popular console h... entertainment kindle fire unseats ipad as no. 1 tablet at best buy written by pete pachal over 8 years ago the amazon kindle fire tablet debuted last month with the promise of being the only tablet with a real shot of challenging the ipad, mainly because of its rock-bottom price: $199, less than half the price of the cheapest ipad model. now it appears to... entertainment 46% of moms don't let their children see their full facebook profile [study] written by sarah kessler over 8 years ago the oft-discussed dilemma of whether to share your facebook profile with your mom often overlooks an important factor: does she want to share hers with you? a recent study suggests that about half of the time, the answer is no -- at least not the who... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 36 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.