we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for november 2007 entertainment yahoo flirts with social networking written by stan schroeder over 12 years ago in an interview with business standard, john kremer, the vice president of yahoo mail, has left some interesting clues to where yahoo might be heading in the future. one of their aims is interactivity. "yahoo is ready with a new social-networking ser... entertainment privacy advocates, only you can save web 2.0 written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 12 years ago are you wondering why you're seeing all of the recent moves by the big guys like aol, google, and special interest groups to highlight the alleged 'invasive' privacy infringements of web advertisers? there's an ftc online advertising workshop going o... entertainment exelate, the behavioral data marketplace, raises $4 million written by stan schroeder over 12 years ago this might be a bit hard to grasp if you're not an online advertising guru, so bear with me. exelate is a company founded in 2006. which just received $4 million in first-round financing from carmel ventures. that was the easy part. understanding wha... entertainment facebook still looking for that $500 million written by stan schroeder over 12 years ago remember when fake steve jobs (later reiterated by forbes) said that two new york based hedge funds (hedgetards, as he called them), have invested an additional $500 million in facebook? well, inside facebook now reports he was - for the most part - ... entertainment predict the future: 20+ prediction markets written by sean p. aune over 12 years ago everyone wishes they knew the future, and with prediction markets popping up everywhere, it is now far easier to get a good idea of where something is going - although we still don't recommend betting on the basis of this information. we've gathered ... entertainment macs don't have trojans? think again written by stan schroeder over 12 years ago oh, how the pc users have longed for this day. with one of apple's marketing points being that mac is practically virus free, many have held the view that this stems largely from macs (and os x) being less prominent on the market than windows-based p... entertainment fotoflexer - an interview with sharam shirazi and neil warren written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 12 years ago wednesday afternoon i had the pleasure of speaking with sharam shirazi, the brand new ceo of fotoflexer, as well as neil warren, the lead developer for the company. i was unfamiliar with the product except by name recognition only. in preparation for... entertainment wikianswers now has 1 million questions written by stan schroeder over 12 years ago they say that asking the right questions was more important than giving answers. if so, wikianswers must have some good ones in their 1 million question archive. the millionth question in this user-generated wing of answers.com was in the science and... entertainment empressr releases private beta of flex based presentation app written by andy angelos over 12 years ago after nearly a year of development, nyc based fusebox has announced the private beta of an adobe flex based presentation platform entitled empressr. participation in the private beta is scheduled to last for the next month, prior to an early 2008 rel... entertainment stumblerank - the top users of stumbleupon written by stan schroeder over 12 years ago remember digg's top user list? the one that got removed by digg admins, and then kept reappearing in unofficial form (and exists to this day in some places)? well, stumbleupon never had an official user top list, but now it has an unofficial one: stu... entertainment steve case rocks out: qloud music service officially launched written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago qloud, which owns the popular facebook application my music, has officially launched. as covered previously, my music is a social music app for facebook that allows you to import your itunes library and share your listening habits with friends. much ... entertainment troll week - the trolliest trolls so far written by stan schroeder over 12 years ago look, trolls. we're all seasoned world of warcraft / eve online players here. plus, we read fark and digg. this means that your feeble attempts at trolling would pass as polite, heartwarming and insightful commentary on the message boards we frequent... entertainment the google pc has arrived (sort of) written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago early this year, rumors surfaced that google was planning to launch its own personal computer, loaded with google applications and absent of a microsoft windows operating system. those rumors proved false, as google had no real interest into getting ... entertainment planetorange is for phoenix fans written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago the phoenix suns is the latest sports team to launch a social network to attract fans online. planetorange.net is the team's new site, which was created in conjunction with kickapps, featuring istreamplanet for this white label solution. based on mic... entertainment no laughing matter. nbc dropping dotcomedy. written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago nbc, which was one of the many larger corporations to launch several niche sites in the past 18 months, is planning to shut down dotcomedy, the standalone destination site. its content won't be lost forever, though. nbc will incorporate it into its m... entertainment osoyou adds networking features to social shopping site written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago osoyou, the uk-based women's shopping network that launched a couple of months ago, has added a few social networking features, which the team mentioned it would be adding. there are no groups, lists, and private messaging functions, which expand on ... entertainment the daily poll: catching up socially written by adam hirsch over 12 years ago according to yesterday's poll, it's overwhelmingly obvious that there is a *slight* hatred out there for myspace. not included yesterday's poll were two of the big wigs, yahoo and microsoft. yahoo recently closed down yahoo! 360 and no one really not... entertainment confirmed: myspace to join google's opensocial written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago silicon alley insider is reporting that myspace will join google's opensocial, which launches today. the move would make a lot of sense considering myspace and google's $900 million advertising pact, and may be announced by the end of the day. it wou... entertainment a first look at tumblr 3.0 written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 12 years ago all the big news poured out of tumblr this morning. in addition to the new features to the tumblr content management system, there were also a fair amount of corporate announcements put forth today. an impressive group of people now surround the folk... entertainment newsgator joins opensocial written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago newsgator was quick to take advantage of the new developer's platform opensocial to create an application for google's new partners in the social networking space. named "didja hear!?" this app will let you share and discuss multimedia images and vid... entertainment tripit's smart additions for easy planning written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago tripit, the service that helps you plan travel itineraries, has added a few new features that will help save time and further simplify the trip-planning process. building on some of tripit's existing features for finding local activities, these can n... entertainment go highligher crazy with mojonote's new features written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago mojonote, the online calendar and planning tool, has rolled out a pretty big update, which is more important in concept than in function. the service is now 100% free. for a tool such as mojonote, which started out with premium plan options, making t... entertainment private cinemas in virtual world gaia written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago gaia, the popular anime virtual world, has added a pretty fun feature that lets you bring online videos into your gaia world. the new tool is called gaia vj, and it lets you collect web videos to create your own channel of streaming content. this act... entertainment frame media's dynamic content for digital picture frames written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago frame media is a web-based application that will let you schedule rss feed delivery for your digital picture frame. it's service is proposed as a way to create dynamic and interesting content for your digital picture frame, but this works for desktop... entertainment 1,000 mixaloo invites for mashable readers written by adam hirsch over 12 years ago mixaloo, the site that lets you create and sell mix tapes, has graciously offered mashable readers 1,000 invites. just enter through here and use ‘mashable’ in the mashable code field, along with your information. since our last review, mixaloo has a... entertainment sclipo's "webcam record" for easy video addition written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago sclipo, the social learning network, has just added a new tool that lets you record lessons with your webcam. with so many social learning and how-to video networks out there, the ability to record lessons from your webcam may seem like a no-brainer.... entertainment new york times launches techmeme competitor written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 12 years ago the new york times today tipped us on their answer to techmeme, although it isn't exactly a truly one-to-one translation of the technology blogosphere monitoring tool. the tech section of the ny times online website has new content for it's middle co... entertainment digg to acquire spanish clone meneame? written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago we received a tip from a spanish-speaking mash reader that did some digging (pun intended) that indicates digg may be interested in acquiring meneame, a popular spanish-language social news site. the report is based on some message board postings (in... entertainment it's official: google + myspace = opensocial written by adam ostrow over 12 years ago the official news is out on the myspace and google deal, first rumored earlier today. the big news: the two companies have actually been working together on opensocial all along, which launches officially tonight. from the jointly issued news release... entertainment will you be trying to fu*k anytime soon? written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago the fu*k index. i know you're wondering what it is. so i'll tell you. it's a facebook application launched by former snl writer e. jean (she currently writes the ask e. jean advice column in elle magazine). e. jean is now working on a book, all about... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 26 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.