we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for august 2008 entertainment austin as the next web 2.0 hub (video) written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago so after a much longer flight back from austin than i ever imagined possible, i'm finally sitting down this morning to put out some of the experiences from the evening. i had a great time, and as a native of texas, am extremely proud of the impressiv... entertainment thank you to mashable's sponsors written by tamar weinberg over 11 years ago thanks to this week's advertisers and partners for helping us grow to be the #1 social news blog in the world. advertise with us and get noticed. help us to help you. mashable is seeking out site sponsors for our large diverse audience -- social medi... entertainment rentmineonline connects landlords and renters through facebook written by kristen nicole over 11 years ago rentmineonline is a recently launched search and recommendation tool that pairs landlords and lessees by leveraging online social media. one core component of this site is its referral system, which enables users to earn cash when someone moves into ... entertainment a sneak peek at yahoo's browserplus written by rob diana over 11 years ago a few months ago yahoo offered a limited peek into its browserplus project. at that time, not much was available. now we are seeing some activity, and even the developer blog at yahoo started to talk about the project. disappointingly, browserplus is... entertainment join mashable at blogworldexpo in september! written by tamar weinberg over 11 years ago join mashable staffers in las vegas for blogworldexpo from september 20-21. the whole weekend of events kicks off with an exclusive "executive & entrepreneur" conference that starts on september 19th. blogworldexpo is the first and only industry-wide... entertainment create custom flash map embeds with umapper (the startup review) written by kristen nicole over 11 years ago editor's note: this post is part of an ongoing series at mashable - the startup review, sponsored by sun microsystems startup essentials. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. startup details: c... entertainment summermash was bigger in texas! written by karen hartline over 11 years ago mashable just completed its fourth stop on the u.s. summer tour in austin, texas and it was great! over 400 people joined us at buffalo billiards, where they played billiards, guitar hero, xbox, and more. not only that, there was amazing conversation... entertainment tipjoy adds auto-twitter integration so you can tweet your tips written by kristen nicole over 11 years ago tipjoy launched earlier this year with the hopes of creating a better tipping community, and subsequently a better online marketplace for earning money and expressing your support of a particular site you like (somewhat similar to tipit). while sites... entertainment hopstop vs. google maps: it's a 'walk off' written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago web users have been able to glean driving directions from a variety of sources for many years now. and more recently, some services have evolved to become rather smart about it, involving overlays for things such as traffic alerts and even an ability... entertainment profy editorial staff quits over pay written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago word comes to us today that aol's weblogs, inc isn't the only blogging outfit irking their editorial staff of late. of course, a lot of the blogosphere has been following with some interest what's going on over there at aol, as a number of blogs' wri... entertainment why there will be another lg15 written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago chris albrecht, one of my favorite editorialists on the world of video (and frequent foil to my opinion pieces on video) has a nice wrap-up piece today on the end of the lonelygirl15 series. in it, he suggests that the landscape has completely change... entertainment attention sitemeter users: your site is down written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago this just in from one of our regular tipsters here at mashable - thousands of popular blogs are down tonight, from perezhilton, valleywag, consumerist all the way on down to louisgray.com. why? because they use sitemeter, a popular free traffic metri... entertainment senate votes to make universities legal enforcement agents written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago back in november, we brought you news of a bill in congress that would enlist america's higher educational institutions as an enforcement arm of anti-piracy groups like the mpaa and the riaa: in the house education and labor committee's comprehensive... entertainment 15 exercise video tutorial sites to pump you up written by sean p. aune over 11 years ago several of us here at mashable enjoy working out, mostly to combat "the blogger 15," but we also realize it is easy to get bored with the same exercises. we've put together a list of 15 sites with exercise videos that are bound to liven up your routi... entertainment three more summermashes, six more chances to win tickets to sxswi! written by tamar weinberg over 11 years ago mashable is currently in miami, where two lucky readers and event attendees will have a chance to win tickets to south by southwest. later this week, mashable is headed to boston and then new york city. during each of these summermashes, attendees ha... entertainment streaming live from summermash miami written by karen hartline over 11 years ago the second leg of the u.s. summermash tour continues tonight in miami, fl for the fifth stop on the tour. we're at the hot opium garden and are ready to party with the local miami folks with food, open bar, prizes and great conversation. tonight's a ... entertainment social bookmarking: the race to be famous or a useful tool? written by chris miller over 11 years ago i lept right into social bookmarking early on. at first is was not only a place to store your bookmarks, but to tag them for easier searching. the old browser based bookmarks took time to organize and sort. tagging was a natural progression to me. as... entertainment 13 opensocial video tutorials and educational videos written by cameron chapman over 11 years ago opensocial is google's developer platform for social networking applications. it's the backbone behind applications on myspace, orkut, friendster, linkedin, plaxo, hi5, and many more. we've gathered a list of 13 opensocial video tutorials and educati... entertainment underage sex in google's lively written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago i'm sorry... will someone please explain human nature to those starry eyed hippies over at google for me? i'm not sure they read my work over here - or if they read it, they tend to discount it out of hand quite a bit. i just happened to be going thr... entertainment mashable's guide to conferences and events written by tamar weinberg over 11 years ago here's mashable's latest round-up of upcoming web 2.0 events, parties, and conferences. not on this list? contact us and let's establish a media sponsorship. :) august 5, 2008: mashable makes it’s first trip to boston, ma for the sixth stop on the u.... entertainment a conversation with daniel cohen of gemini israel funds (israel media tour) written by ayelet noff over 11 years ago company name: gemini founded in: 1992 location: herzliya pituach, israel i had the pleasure of speaking with daniel cohen, general partner at gemini, an israeli vc fund founded in 1992 by ed mlavsky, that invests in israeli companies all over the wor... entertainment teachstreet's instructional search engine goes west written by kristen nicole over 11 years ago teachstreet, the instructional network and search engine that raised $2.25 million in funding from madrona venture group earlier this year, is expanding on its city-by-city roll out with a local launch in portland, oregon. since first emerging on the... entertainment quote this: 11 resources for word lovers written by doriano "paisano" carta over 11 years ago there's a social network for just about anything you can imagine these days, so it shouldn't surprise anyone that there are services centered around quotations and famous words. increasingly, these sites are offering more ways to collect and share yo... entertainment time warner sets the aol hook, yahoo bites written by don reisinger over 11 years ago in a move that shouldn’t come as a surprise to anyone, the wall street journal is reporting that time warner is poised to sell off aol in separate pieces and will reportedly separate its advertising and content platforms with its dial-up business to ... entertainment announcing mashable's monthly san francisco (call for sponsors) written by adam hirsch over 11 years ago mashable is proud to announce our new monthly san francisco event series. join mashable and san francisco’s tech elite for an evening of meeting, mingling and conversing about web’s hottest new services while enjoying light appetizers and drink ticke... entertainment 25+ tools for a road trip 2.0 written by amanda macarthur over 11 years ago ten, five, even two years ago, documenting a road trip meant disposable cameras, a fold-out map, postage stamps and planning ahead. now a road trip means streaming video, gps, email, and hotels.com. even if you’re not rocking an iphone or blackberry,... entertainment why mobile tv is a total waste of time written by don reisinger over 11 years ago mobile tv just doesn’t seem to die. for years now, i’ve heard from countless companies that they’re going to provide the “real” mobile tv experience that will totally change the way we enjoy television. all the while, i’ve laughed to myself wondering... entertainment simplify your car search with auto classifieds aggregator carocean (the startup review) written by kristen nicole over 11 years ago editor's note: this post is part of an ongoing series at mashable - the startup review, sponsored by sun microsystems startup essentials. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. startup details: c... entertainment are social media jobs here to stay? written by ben parr over 11 years ago let's face it: social media has become one of the hot buzzwords in tech circles. it used to be web 2.0 and social networking, but now we have moved on to a broader term that encompasses not only social networking, but blogs, podcasts, user-generated ... entertainment website ... one word: youcharades written by kristen nicole over 11 years ago charades is a fun little trivia game that doesn't require any boards, small pieces that children can choke on, or complicated instructions that resemble your new car guide. this game can be played any time and anywhere with just about any group of pe... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 15 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.