we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for may 2012 business social surfing: mon.ki applies twitter conversations to web browsing written by joann pan almost 8 years ago the spark of genius series highlights a unique feature of startups and is made possible by microsoft bizspark. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. name: mon.ki quick pitch: mon.ki is a chrome ... entertainment mashable wins webby for 'best business' coverage written by chris taylor almost 8 years ago mashable is proud to announce it has won a webby for best business coverage (blog) of the year. other winners chosen by the international academy of digital arts and sciences include pinterest, which gets the webby for social media website, and googl... tech big jambox pumps out awesome, ear-splitting audio [review] written by lance ulanoff almost 8 years ago ever since jawbone introduced the first jambox wireless speaker, people have wondered when they would introduce a larger model -- one that could pick up with audio where the diminutive jambox leaves off. jawbone heard that steady drumbeat and has ans... entertainment see the new 'dark knight rises' trailer [video] written by stan schroeder almost 8 years ago a new trailer for the upcoming dark knight rises movie, the third installment in christopher nolan's batman series, is now available for your viewing pleasure. fans were able to "unlock" the trailer early by participating in an elaborate viral campai... entertainment obama campaign unveils new slogan, 'forward' [video] written by todd wasserman almost 8 years ago president obama launched his 2012 pitch to voters with this 7-minute video that introduced a new slogan, "forward." the ad unveils what is likely the narrative of obama's reelection campaign: a president who was handed a tough situation, but saved th... entertainment today’s top stories: facebook adds organ donor status, samsung ships 93.8 million phones in q1 written by stan schroeder almost 8 years ago welcome to this morning’s edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. today, we’re looking at three particularly interesting stories. idc: samsung is the biggest phone maker by shipm... entertainment 16th annual webby award winners: the complete list written by sonia paul almost 8 years ago the 16th annual webby awards are upon us, and mashable has an exclusive list of all the winners. considered by many to be the internet's academy awards, the webbys honors online media in four categories: websites; interactive advertising and media; o... entertainment frommer's interactive travel guides available for iphone and ipad written by sonia paul almost 8 years ago frommer's, the market leader in travel guides, and inkling, the publisher behind interactive digital textbooks, have launched monday what they call "the first-ever truly interactive travel guides for iphone and ipad." they're frommer's traditional "d... entertainment facebook adds organ donor option to timeline written by todd wasserman almost 8 years ago facebook on tuesday unveiled an organ donor status option for timeline, a move designed to help more than 114,000 people in the u.s. and millions more around the world who are waiting for a live-saving heart, kidney or liver transplant. "many of thos... entertainment digg tech team heads to the washington post [report] written by todd wasserman almost 8 years ago news aggregation site digg's technology team may soon become part of the washington post's media empire, according to reports. the newspaper giant is "in the process of buying" digg's tech team, according to allthingsd. the team will work with the pe... entertainment rim releases blackberry 10 to developers written by pete pachal almost 8 years ago the long wait is over -- sort of. research in motion just reached a major milestone in finally getting its long-awaited blackberry 10 platform off the ground: the company has officially given developers the essential tools for creating bb10 apps, inc... entertainment movember: how mustaches and social media raise awareness for men's health written by lauren drell almost 8 years ago name: movember big idea: every november, men around the world grow a mustache -- a "mo" -- to raise funds and awareness for men's health issues, such as prostate cancer. the global campaign is driven largely by social media, online awareness platform... entertainment best buy leaks logitech solar-powered ipad case written by stan schroeder almost 8 years ago a new listing at best buy has unveiled -- perhaps prematurely -- a very interesting gadget: a solar-powered ipad case by logitech. this confirms a recent rumor that logitech is working on such a case, though logitech itself hasn't officially said a w... entertainment gingrich suspends campaign in youtube video to supporters written by alex fitzpatrick almost 8 years ago in an unusual move, republican presidential candidate newt gingrich announced he will be suspending his campaign wednesday in a youtube video addressed to his supporters and released early tuesday morning. "i want to take this opportunity to give you... entertainment will facebook's efforts drive up organ donor registrations? [poll] written by todd wasserman almost 8 years ago facebook is using its 901-million-strong following for good, offering organ donors and transplant recipients a way to link up. that's one way to look at it. another is that facebook needs to do all it can to deflect concerns about privacy and users' ... entertainment kickstarter has raised $200 million from more than 2 million backers written by lauren indvik almost 8 years ago kickstarter has raised more than $200 million from 2 million backers, cofounder yancey strickler said on stage at wired's business conference in manhattan tuesday morning. that money has funded more than 22,000 projects in the three years the crowdfu... entertainment how to start your own successful app business written by businessnewsdaily almost 8 years ago at a rate of 30 million a day, downloading apps is a popular hobby among consumers. so, too, is developing ideas for great new ones. the trouble often lies in taking an app from conception to high-tech reality — but experts agree anyone can develop a... entertainment why musicians need more than viral videos to succeed written by brian solis almost 8 years ago as guitarist and co-founder of the smashing pumpkins, billy corgan was at the forefront of one of the most important music movements in recent history. and he’s not finished. the pumpkins have a new album coming out in june, and corgan is splitting t... entertainment puppy acts as seeing eye dog for another pooch in touching video written by stephanie haberman almost 8 years ago the video above tells the story of a blind, homeless dog that has been given a second chance, thanks to the friendship of another stray puppy. tanner, a 2-year-old golden retriever, was born blind with a slight seizure problem. after his owner died, ... entertainment memekit transforms your facebook photos into memes written by brian anthony hernandez almost 8 years ago you and your facebook friends can now join the ranks of scumbag steve, philosoraptor, angry ass wolf, college freshman, annoying facebook girl and other memes. a new website lets you create text-over-image memes using facebook content. memekit combin... business 6 tips for organizing your small business finances written by nellie akalp almost 8 years ago nellie akalp is the ceo of corpnet.com, an online legal document filing service, where she helps entrepreneurs incorporate or form an llc for their new businesses. connect with nellie on twitter or visit her free resource center. spring is in full bl... entertainment are visitors to your site pushing your buttons? written by clickz almost 8 years ago many a parent has angrily warned their children "don't push my buttons!" and of course what they are implying is that the children know exactly what to do to create a certain response, or reaction, from mom or dad. when you think about it, isn't it f... entertainment twitter announces improved 'discover' tab written by lauren indvik almost 8 years ago just days after releasing significant updates to its iphone and android apps, twitter announced tuesday its plan to upgrade its 'discover' tab on both twitter.com and its mobile apps. twitter introduced discover in december as part of an overhaul to ... tech meet the first round of blackberry 10 apps written by pete pachal almost 8 years ago research in motion just gave developers access to its upcoming smartphone platform, blackberry 10, but clearly the conversation started long before today. several developers were on hand at blackberry world in orlando to highlight their commitment to... entertainment satirical ipad magazine makes amazing use of html5 written by christine erickson almost 8 years ago what can a tablet magazine do that a real magazine can't? one new publication launched on the ipad tuesday is one of the best examples yet -- and its staff of hilarious, talented writers is just the icing on the cake. the magazine, blackline, is an e... entertainment bill banning employer requests for facebook passwords reaches the house written by the mary sue almost 8 years ago at the end of march, we learned members of the united states congress were looking into drafting a bill that would bar employers from asking potential hires for private login information for their facebook accounts. states had been instituting laws o... entertainment spam texts: 4.5 billion messages a year and counting [video] written by kate freeman almost 8 years ago text message spam promising free ipads or cash rewards may be obnoxious and unwanted, but they also carry a greater danger: clicking on texts can install malware that collects personal data from your phone. they're also booming faster than any other ... entertainment twitter ceo: i did not say 'twitter is exploring a premium version' [update] written by lauren indvik almost 8 years ago update: twitter ceo dick costolo took to twitter to clarify his comments at the wired conference: here's a transcript of the exchange that led to this story: eli langer, cnbc: similar to how we see brands have the ability to pin tweets, go into analy... entertainment 21 ridiculously cute dog and cat instagram pics written by lauren drell almost 8 years ago the best of instagram series is presented by t-mobile. its 4g tweet race, a week-long campaign launching may 3, pits twitter users against one another in a daily, frantic race for retweets. there are 7 races, and the winners of each heat wins a new h... entertainment republicans launch facebook app to defeat obama written by alex fitzpatrick almost 8 years ago when it comes to social media, the oft-heard narrative of the 2012 election season is that the democrats are the "social party," and are more adept at using platforms such as facebook, twitter and foursquare. the republicans, however, are trying to t... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 46 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.