we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for august 2006 entertainment flixya to youtube users: now get paid written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago in what's turning out to be a busy day for online video news, san francisco-based flixya have launched their new video-sharing offering today. but flixya users don't just share videos - they share in the revenue, too. flixya's rev share program offer... entertainment cultspace: myspace for cults written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago i've resisted the temptation to post about this one for a long time, but really it's too funny to ignore. cultspace is a "place for cults" - a social site that lets you create your very own religious faction. it's really nothing like myspace, save fo... entertainment youtube vs myspace hype written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago there's much buzz today around the latest stats that suggest youtube has outpaced myspace. youtube has a 3.9% share of daily global internet visits, compared to myspace at 3.35%. that sounds pretty remarkable, until you realize this data is coming fr... entertainment eons launches - you have 5 unread death alerts written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago eons, a social network for the over 50s, launched yesterday. they've also thrown out a good tidbit for the bloggers, journalists and diggers to get excited about: the service comes with an online obituary database that sends out death alerts when peo... entertainment look out dell - sutori is coming written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago soturi, which is currently in private beta testing, is a new social site that aims to be the "voice of today's consumer". the idea is fairly simple - you post stories about your experiences with certain brands and give a "goodwill rating" to the comp... entertainment clipshack owner gets $2m written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago it's been a long time since we heard about clipshack, the video-sharing site that now looks a lot like youtube. but today it transpires that the parent company, reality digital, has raised $2 million in series a funding from "undisclosed individual i... entertainment myspace down, google and facebook up written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago the latest data from hitwise reveals the big gainers during myspace's power outage on july 22nd and 23rd. myspace has 80 million or so users and 17% of us page impressions - so where did all those users go? well, myspace's market share of visits actu... entertainment windows live spaces goes live, succeeds msn spaces written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago windows live spaces, microsoft's social network and blogging platform, went live last night. as mentioned previously on mashable, windows live spaces replaces msn spaces, and adds a number of new features. the first is the ability to set up your frie... entertainment mercora releases musical slideshows for myspace written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago mercora, the peer-to-peer music sharing service that works over im, has released a musical slideshow widget for myspace, piczo, hi5, friendster, windows live spaces and blogs. the mercora musicmatrix lets you display 9 of your favorite artists on you... entertainment meebome adds meebo im to myspace written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago meebo, the massively popular web-based im service, has launched an impressive new product today. meebome allows you to put a flash-powered im widget on blogs, websites and social networks like myspace, tagworld and multiply. meebo, you might remember... entertainment creamaid one-ups payperpost written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago you'll remember all the controversy around payperpost, the service that pays bloggers to write (positively) about companies. well, now we have a new kid on the block. creamaid, which stands for "customer relationship extension and management", allows... entertainment we love widgets releases horoscopes for myspace written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago california-based we love widgets is another new service that's plugging in to myspace. their first offering is a horoscope widget that updates itself with content from theastrologer.com. they've done a good job: it's nicely designed and you don't eve... entertainment fotodunk - put cellphone photos and slideshows on myspace written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago fotodunk, which has been on and off my radar for the last few months, is a lightweight tool for putting cellphone photos and slideshows on myspace, bebo, hi5, xanga and friendster (yeah, that list is getting repetitive). as part of some fairly standa... entertainment ilcu - the israeli lovechild of myspace and eventful written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago israel-based ilcu, which is currently in beta (although it's been kicking around for a while), is an "event-sharing network" - a site that helps you find things to do in your area. the focus is currently on a select number of "active metros", includi... entertainment 30boxes releases the822, a new people search engine written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago 30boxes, the online calendar service, soft-launched their new people search engine today. the822 helps you to find more about a person by entering their email address - it returns information from social sites including your blog, flickr account, web... entertainment flickrmap v2 released - put flickr maps on your blog written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago flickrmap, a mapping widget that lets you put geotagged flickr photos on your blog, released version 2 of their product yesterday. i'll be honest and admit that i'd hadn't seen the service before - but i've got to say it's an impressive effort. even ... entertainment heyletsgo gets funding for another "myspace of events" written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago update (january 10th 2007): the amount raised was $3.5 million, according to a regulatory filing. how many events-based social networks do we need? lots, apparently. heyletsgo, which is limited to the boston area during its beta period, has received ... entertainment jaiku - social phonebook and blog/myspace button written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago jaiku, which has been in early beta since mid-july, is a "social phonebook" that displays the presence and location of your contacts. users have very simple member pages at username.jaiku.com (see mashable's) and you can view the status of all your c... entertainment myspace guardian toolbar provides sexual predator locator written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago i know we're getting a bit heavy on the myspace posts, but this one is too funny to pass up. california-based myspace guardian, which launched on monday according to this press release, is a toolbar for myspace users that provides a "sexual predator ... entertainment del.icio.us adds network badges - now officially a social network written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago since april of this year, the social bookmarking del.icio.us has provided the option to add users to your network and gain fans - people who like your bookmarks and have added you to their network. last night they extended this functionality even fur... entertainment aol video is live - and it's big! written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago aol video, aol's massive new video portal, is now live. according to time warner, the site aims to be an all-in-one destination to find, watch and share videos - think of it as on-demand tv crossed with youtube. the new stuff includes more than 45 vi... entertainment myspace launches myspace slideshows written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago i don't have an exact launch date, but it seems that myspace rolled out their own slideshow tool this week. the service creates a show of all your myspace images automatically, but it's all or nothing: there's no way to exclude certain photos. the to... entertainment favorite thingz launches product slideshows for myspace written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago favorite thingz, which launches today, is a new service from sprout commerce, the makers of mypicklist. it's like a really lightweight version of their original product, but more focused on plugging in to social networks - think of it as the rockyou ... entertainment fanpop launches social network for fans written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago fanpop is a new social network for fans of certain websites, tv shows, people and products. but this definitely isn't "myspace for fans" - instead, it allows users to create their own portal-like pages with links, headlines and forums. these pages ar... entertainment google will power myspace search written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago fox interactive media have just announced that google will power the search on myspace and other fim properties. what's more, google will be the exclusive provider of text-based advertising (adsense) and keyword targeted ads on fim. predictably, that... entertainment adoppt - another generic social network written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago adoppt, which has just entered alpha mode, is another new blog platform and social network. it has almost every feature you'd expect from a community site: blogs, tagging, forums, favorite links (similar to social bookmarking), a question and answer ... entertainment now hare krishnas have their own myspace written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago we already have a myspace for muslims, so why not a social network for hare krishnas, too? krishnafriends is such a straightforward idea that i doubt it needs any explanation, but i'll humor you anyway. founded by the krishna network, krishnafriends ... entertainment triphub launches group travel site written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago seattle-based triphub is a new service for planning group travel. it's been in "soft beta" since march, but they just launched the official version a few minutes ago. the company was founded in 2005 by veterans of microsoft and expedia, and has taken... entertainment bebo overtakes myspace in the uk written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago bebo, the social network that's been hot on the heels of myspace in the uk market, has now overtaken myspace in weekly visits, according to hitwise. both sites suffered a dip at the start of the summer, but the launch of bebo bands, bebo's new music ... entertainment myspace france is up and running written by pete cashmore over 13 years ago as of this morning, myspace has begun promoting the french version of the site - myspace france - on its homepage. as it turns out, the site went live last week, and it's currently in beta. however, advertising on myspace.com seems pretty pointless, ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.