we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for september 2011 entertainment ford evos, the social networking vehicle of the future [pics] written by charlie white over 8 years ago social networkers, ford has created a car just for you. the ford evos plug-in hybrid concept vehicle is so smart, it can socially network with its driver's friends and recommend roads and routes that might be quickest or the most fun to drive. the ve... entertainment samsung announces galaxy tab 7.7 written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago at the ifa trade show in berlin, samsung today announced a new android tablet, samsung galaxy tab 7.7. the android 3.2 (honeycomb) device sports a 7.7-inch super amoled wxga display, a 1.4 ghz dual-core processor, 16/32/64 gb of storage memory (furth... entertainment airbnb launches new service for monthly rentals, sublets written by charlie white over 8 years ago airbnb, the "marketplace for spaces" that lets people rent their property just like it's a hotel room, has now extended that concept to also include monthly rentals and sublets. as the company moves into this new category, it aims to make it just as ... entertainment samsung galaxy note bridges gap between smartphone & tablet written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago besides its new tablet, the galaxy tab 7.7, samsung used the podium at the ifa trade show in berlin to officially announce another interesting gadget: the galaxy note. the note is a 5.3-inch, android 2.3 (gingerbread) smartphone which in many ways do... entertainment movie mount is the ipad filmmaker's dream written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago are you one of the folks that couldn't wait for the ipad to get a camera? if so, we have a perfect ipad case for you. the movie mount by makayama lets you do a bunch of things only a true filmmaker will appreciate: you can attach a tripod to it for t... entertainment facebook readies music platform, samsung unveils gadgets: today's top headlines written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. we’re keeping our eyes on three particular stories of interest today. facebook to launch music platform with spo... entertainment linkedin explores what it takes to be an entrepreneur [infographic] written by ben parr over 8 years ago where does the ideal startup founder come from? whom is he or she connected to? linkedin was curious, so the business social network decided to find out. it mined the data of its more than 115 million users to understand the background of entrepreneu... entertainment directv taps miso to offer synchronized social tv experience written by jennifer van grove over 8 years ago social television startup miso is going beyond the entertainment checkin to offer directv customers a synchronized television-viewing experience that changes with each switch of the channel. miso's updated iphone application now pairs with directv re... entertainment samsung galaxy wifi 3.6 takes the "phone" out of "smartphone" written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago catering to the needs of users who want a powerful android device without a costly monthly contract, samsung has launched galaxy wifi 3.6. it's an android device similar to a smartphone but without a sim card, and thus without the ability to make cal... entertainment apple underscores ipad 2's educational benefits in new ad [video] written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago just in time for the new school year, apple has rolled out an ad for the ipad 2, giving consumers another reason to buy the device: to help learn something new. the tv spot, which broke wednesday night and was created by longtime agency tbwa\media ar... entertainment 9/11 ipad app documents 10 years at ground zero written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago since the sept. 11, 2001, attacks, steve rosenbaum has become what might be the world's largest curator of photos and videos related to the site. now, he's sharing the best of those with the public for free using a novel medium: an ipad app. rosenbau... entertainment last chance to join mashable's real life facebook wall written by stephanie haberman over 8 years ago after months of planning, today is your last chance to become a part of mashable's real life facebook wall. tomorrow, social printshop will begin to put together the finished product. to participate, click the "connect" button below. follow the promp... entertainment amazon's @author connects readers to authors on twitter written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago amazon has announced the limited beta launch of its @author program, which lets you pose questions to authors through your kindle device and amazon author pages. sixteen authors are participating in the beta, including timothy ferriss, author of the ... entertainment how toyota used social media to "digg" itself out of a pr nightmare written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago the social brands series is supported by spredfast, a social media management platform provider helping organizations unlock social business potential. start driving social business with the social media pocket guide. in january 2010, toyota faced a ... entertainment martha stewart living & everyday food now available via itunes subscription written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago although some publishers continue to resist apple's recently altered in-app subscription policies, a growing number are rolling out subscription offerings for the ipad editions of their publications through the itunes store. on thursday, martha stewa... entertainment netflix price hike takes effect today written by sarah kessler over 8 years ago the days of netflix's $9.99 per month combined streaming and dvd plan have come to an end. starting thursday, the price of the same service will jump to $15.98 per month. netflix announced in july that it would be separating its streaming and dvd ren... entertainment top 25 most-shared mashable stories in august written by brian anthony hernandez over 8 years ago you really like your coffee, don't you? in a month where steve jobs stepped down as apple's ceo, google acquired motorola mobility and hp discontinued webos operations, mashable readers focused on the story about the pumpkin spice latte's return to s... entertainment happy 3rd birthday, google chrome written by adam ostrow over 8 years ago google’s chrome web browser launched three years ago thursday, a milestone the company marked on its official blog with an interactive infographic and a laundry list of recent improvements to the product. google has a lot more to celebrate than a bir... entertainment connected cars: the fine line between innovation & distraction written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago the tech innovators series is supported by lenovo. lenovo does not just manufacture technology. they make do machines -- super-powered creation engines designed to help the people who do, do more, do better, do in brand new ways. the social networkin... entertainment patent wars: a new age of competition [infographic] written by sarah kessler over 8 years ago patents are a source of constant lawsuits between large tech companies like apple, microsoft and samsung. they're one reason google wants to pay $12.5 billion for motorola mobility. and many entrepreneurs believe these documents stunt innovation rath... entertainment adventure world = legend of zelda + indiana jones + farmville [pics] written by ben parr over 8 years ago what would happen if you took legend of zelda and turned it into a social game? you might get something like zynga's newest game, adventure world. the makers of farmville, cityville and words with friends plan to launch their latest game in the next ... entertainment hulu goes international with japan launch written by christina warren over 8 years ago popular streaming service hulu is now available to customers in japan, as part of the company's first international expansion. japanese viewers will not have free access to hulu.com, but rather its hulu plus service, in which content can be accessed ... entertainment foursquare adds 5 new languages written by sarah kessler over 8 years ago foursquare has added five new languages to its app: bahasa indonesian, korean, portuguese, russian and thai. to check in using those languages, users need to update the latest version of foursquare. the app will automatically switch to the phone's de... entertainment geena davis, nicholas negroponte & barbara bush to speak at mashable's social good summit written by jennifer diamond over 8 years ago we’re thrilled to share the latest agenda for this year’s social good summit, which now includes geena davis, nicholas negroponte, barbara bush and many more. academy award-winning actor geena davis will participate in the women and girls lead panel,... entertainment hoax email purporting to be ftc spreads malware [warning] written by zoe fox over 8 years ago a malicious email is circulating that purports to come from the u.s. federal trade commission and leaves computers infected with malware. the ftc began receiving reports of the viral scam thursday afternoon. david torok, the ftc's associate director ... entertainment domino's japan claims it wants to open a branch on the moon written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago domino's japan is boldly going where no fast food chain has gone before: the moon. that's the premise, anyway, of a new site the chain has introduced. the site features a video of the chain's japan president and ceo scott k. oelkers in a space suit s... entertainment gop candidates to face user-submitted questions in google/fox news debate written by zachary sniderman over 8 years ago google has launched a comprehensive site allowing users to post and vote for questions ahead of the next gop primary debate. the upcoming debate, co-presented by google and fox news, will take place in orlando, florida on sept. 22. google's site, fox... entertainment 5 social media tips for scoring your next job written by marc hoag over 8 years ago marc hoag, ceo and co-founder of venturocket, is a california-licensed attorney with an econ degree from ucla and a strong background in math and science. marc's mission with venturocket, first conceived nearly 10 years ago, is simple: to help make t... entertainment rent the runway: how two women are making luxury fashion affordable written by lauren drell over 8 years ago carrie bradshaw made women jealous with her dvfs and louboutins, but one startup is offering access to these high-price duds at a fraction of the cost. now, aspirational fashion can be quite attainable, thanks to rent the runway. after jennifer hyman... entertainment fashion marketers voice public outcry against tumblr written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago tumblr has earned much of its popularity in the fashion world, and rightly so. we've even lauded the company for its efforts -- particularly for promoting bloggers as capable fashion reporters in their own right -- and celebrated the way many top fas... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 28 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.