we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for september 2008 entertainment google to microsoft: we're serious about privacy written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago a couple of days ago microsoft fired off a couple of shots in google's general direction, with their chief privacy strategist peter cullen claiming that, when it comes to privacy, “google is where microsoft was seven or 10 years ago.” now, zdnet.com.... entertainment get your invitation to the marketing & online communities conference written by tamar weinberg over 11 years ago the marketing & online communities conference is an invitation-based event held at the exclusive tribeca grand in new york city on november 5th, 2008. the conference will bring together thought leaders from the marketing and online community sectors ... entertainment notebook 2.0: 12 tools for researchers written by doriano "paisano" carta over 11 years ago it's ironic that there are so many new sites and tools for research and scholarly types online these days because the whole internet started with them forty-six years ago. the concept was born in a series of memos by j.c.r. licklider of bolt, beranek... entertainment mashable's guide to upcoming conferences and events written by tamar weinberg over 11 years ago here's mashable's latest round-up of upcoming web 2.0 events, parties, and conferences. not on this list? contact us and let's establish a media partnership. :) september 6-7, 2008: searchcamp is designed to be an affordable and fun way for small bus... entertainment mashable showdown finalists announced written by tamar weinberg over 11 years ago congratulations to the nine finalists of the mashable showdown on vencorps: * avenda * bizak * buybak * change round-up * commuto * molv * socialvoter * stream to me * stylehop over the next 30 days each startup will answer common questions vcs ask, ... entertainment google chrome: the "gbrowser" comes to life written by steven hodson over 11 years ago so the tech blogosphere is all abuzz about google’s now outed web browser that goes by the name of chrome. the thing that i find absolutely hilarious about the whole thing is the fact that they used a comic book to announce it. c’mon, a comic book? h... entertainment antstorm bookmarks and searches: better than mahalo? written by kristen nicole over 11 years ago antstorm is a new bookmarking tool that hopes to change the way in which we aggregate information and search for data on the web. think of it as a mahalo with more involved user interaction, based on self-selecting organized groups within the antstor... entertainment when bloggers aren't bloggers (smcb) written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago over the weekend, various bloggers and the new york times rose to defend what they termed as a number of bloggers and podcasters who were arrested in minneapolis. podcasting news called it "a pre-emptive attempt to stifle protest and independent medi... entertainment google apps: now with video sharing written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago google apps, the simple online office package aimed primarily at small businesses, now has support for videos. users can post and embed videos, tag them, and leave comments - just like having your own mini youtube. according to cnet, the technology u... entertainment status updating service ping.fm now in open beta written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago remember ping.fm, the service that lets you update several social networking profiles - twitter, pownce, facebook, myspace, linkedin, friendster among many others - from one place? it's now in open beta, which means that everyone can sign up and try ... entertainment kyte takes advantage of celeb partners, rolls out new ad program written by kristen nicole over 11 years ago kyte's particular brand of marketing has been to partner with celebrities and other influencers for using its self-publishing platform as a way to better connect with fans and viewers through live and scheduled programing. this process as a whole has... entertainment 8 tools for tracking weather forecasts in firefox written by sean p. aune over 11 years ago with hurricane gustav downgraded, and hurricane hanna and tropical storm ike on the horizon, keeping track of the weather seems as important as ever. weather services aside, there are several ways you can monitor forecasts using firefox. while most o... entertainment twittad wants to monetize your twitter background written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago several months back, the idea of a “pay per tweet” network was quickly refuted as an april fool’s joke. but that hasn’t stopped twitter from becoming a serious tool for self-promotion, including many users customizing their page backgrounds to advert... entertainment diditz shows off your life stories in style (the startup review) - 500 invites written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago editor's note: this post is part of an ongoing series at mashable - the startup review, sponsored by sun microsystems startup essentials. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. startup details: c... entertainment hulu unveils fall lineup complete with major network premieres written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago while autumn has not yet technically arrived, the television industry is already rolling out its seasonal debuts. fox issued its first opener in the form of a two-hour prison break special on labor day in the us. and it’ll be in the latter half of oc... entertainment facebook doubles its money on monkeys and martinis written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago you know those thumbnail images that facebook labels as $1-or-less digital gifts to share with friends? according to lightspeed venture partners, the network was selling them at a rate of $15 million worth per year as of january 2008. and in a revise... entertainment nastia liukin joins tween social network beacon street girls written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago the olympics might be a couple of weeks in the past, but the biggest stars are still everywhere, making appearances on the late night talk shows and even reciting the pledge of allegiance at political conventions. and now, one of the game’s most prom... entertainment are ping.fm & co. solving the problem or exacerbating it? written by muhammad saleem over 11 years ago ping.fm finally announced its open beta today and not everyone is rejoicing. when i first started monitoring these services that allow you to send messages across multiple platforms i was happy. i thought, like many people still do, that these servic... entertainment powerpoint presentations go live with authorstream written by alana taylor over 11 years ago authorstream, the site that allows you to send powerpoint presentations straight to youtube, your ipod, and your blog, has released today its newest feature: present live. present live allows you to share your powerpoint presentation with a selected ... entertainment angelsoft 3.0 simplifies the angel investment process written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago it is often exceedingly difficult to establish and launch a startup. it is also a task to secure funding to sustain the effort. this is the challenge that four-year-old angelsoft is on a mission to conquer. even more so now with its launch of angelso... entertainment oh, my, god: live child birth happening now on ustream.tv written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago it was bound to happen: this afternoon it would appear the internet is witnessing a live child birth in the video embedded above. while several child births have infamously been tweeted in near real-time before, this is the first time (that i can rec... entertainment google chrome a killer browser already (screencast) written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago so, i've finally completed my search for a new browser to fall in love with. i don't say this as a google fanboy, nor do i say this as someone who hates firefox. firefox has served its purpose, but google chrome (now available for download here) seem... entertainment social media behavior 101 soon a required course written by steven hodson over 11 years ago sure, the whole idea about web 2.0 and social media is about openness and transparency. the only problem with that is, some people have no problem crossing a line of propriety. we’ve all heard the warning about how nothing is ever deleted from the we... entertainment virtually there: three exciting new features for there.com written by doriano "paisano" carta over 11 years ago there.com has long existed under the massive shadow of its more successful competitor, second life. well, they've decided to shake things up a bit and give the goliath of 3d virtual worlds a run for the money by announcing three new features: faceboo... entertainment chrome is not a windows-killer written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago i've been reading all sorts of starry eyed accounts as to how the new browser from google dubbed chrome is going to kill windows. as someone who is absolutely dazzled by chrome, i'm here to tell you that it isn't the case. certainly, we may be lookin... entertainment 7 really awesome things about google chrome written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago i didn't expect this. i fired up google's web browser, chrome, expecting very little except a stripped down early beta with a plethora of bugs. after playing with it for a while, it's too early to say that i'm blown away, but i must admit that i've s... entertainment government 2.0: what’s your brand? written by mark drapeau over 11 years ago this is part of an ongoing series about government 2.0 written by dr. mark drapeau. to view previous posts in the series click here. i’m a member of generation x, and it seems to me that when i was young the character of uncle sam was still used on t... entertainment what is social networking? 58% still have no clue written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago do you see the glass as half full or half empty? it’s an important question to ask yourself in diving into a report from synovate (republished by emarketer this morning) showing that 58% of adults worldwide don’t know “what social networking is.” the... entertainment tabup makes tab sharing elegant written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago are you a fan of widgets? do you enjoy having lots of small web apps at hand, arranged into a sort of customizable start page whose features are eminently drag-and-droppable? if so, you might want to give tabup a few moments of your time. designed to... entertainment is y combinator the university of internet startups? written by ben parr over 11 years ago there was interesting talk about venture capitalists and their role in internet startups last week. it started with a post by john casasanta of taptaptap simply entitled "fuck the vcs." responses from hacker news and john furrier, among others, led t... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 15 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.