we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for july 2010 entertainment borrow, rent, buy and lend with your neighborhood written by brenna ehrlich over 9 years ago mashable’s spark of genius series highlights a unique feature of startups. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, see details here. the series is made possible by microsoft bizspark. name: neighborgoods quick pitch: why buy ... entertainment apple and at&t slapped with an iphone 4 class-action lawsuit written by stan schroeder over 9 years ago the iphone 4 has some reception issues when held a certain way. the problem -- which partially stems from iphone 4's newly designed external antenna -- can be viewed as more or less serious, depending on a number of factors. is it serious enough to s... entertainment kindle dx gets a better screen, lower price written by stan schroeder over 9 years ago kindle dx, amazon's e-reader designed especially for reading magazines and newspapers, made some sense before apple introduced its ipad, but now it's really hard to justify buying one. the ipad is more powerful, has a more attractive screen and, at $... entertainment yahoo launches mail and messenger apps for android written by stan schroeder over 9 years ago yahoo today launched yahoo mail and messenger apps for android, as well as yahoo search widget for android. it also created new, faster html5-based yahoo mail and news sites for iphone and ipod touch. yahoo mail features push notification for new e-m... entertainment youtube lets users question bp executive written by brenna ehrlich over 9 years ago seventy-two days have passed since the offshore drilling rig deepwater horizon exploded in the gulf of mexico and the public is frustrated, to say the least. well take a break from writing your satirical twitter stream/crafting your web plugins/blowi... entertainment how the gulf coast benefit is using social media to rally support written by geoff livingston over 9 years ago geoff livingston co-founded zoetica to focus on cause-related work, and released an award-winning book on new media now is gone in 2007. today, the gulf coast benefit will present the coast to coast series of concerts in 60 different venues across th... entertainment hp confirms webos tablets are in the works written by adam ostrow over 9 years ago hp has closed on its $1.2 billion acquisition of palm, and with it, confirmed that it plans to develop tablet computers and netbooks based on the webos operating system. hp also plans to continue to develop smartphones using palm’s technology. in a s... entertainment 30+ of the latest social media job vacancies written by tamar weinberg over 9 years ago if you're seeking a job in social media, we'd like to help out. for starters, mashable's job lists section gathers together all of our resource lists, how-tos and expert guides to help you get hired. in particular, you might want to see our articles ... entertainment starbucks free wi-fi now available in u.s. and canada written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago today is the first of july and that means that starbucks's no-charge, registration-less and limitation-free wi-fi initiative officially goes live at all u.s. and canadian retail stores. starbucks first revealed the news a little more than two weeks a... entertainment groupon to offer exclusive deals through local newspapers written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago the quickly growing deal-a-day site groupon has entered in to a partnership with the mcclatchy company -- owner of the miami herald, the sacramento bee and several other newspapers -- to outsource exclusive groupon deals to mcclatchy websites in 28 u... entertainment 10 beautiful social media infographics written by grace smith over 9 years ago this series is supported by ben & jerry's joe, ben & jerry's new line-up of fair trade and frozen iced coffee drinks. learn more about it here. infographics help communicate information in a digestible manner as they creatively present data in an und... entertainment little kids reenact the american revolution [video] written by brenna ehrlich over 9 years ago if you're an american -- or just dig war, fireworks and red, white and blue -- you're probably prepping for the fourth. well, if jibjab's latest diversion isn't enough to get you in the three-day weekend spirit, check out babelgum's newest vid, "kids... entertainment tapulous acquired by disney [updated] written by ben parr over 9 years ago tapulous, the iphone app development firm responsible for the tap tap revenge games, has been acquired by disney, according to our sources. we have since confirmed the news. tapulous, founded in 2008, is one of the best known developers of iphone app... entertainment beyond the checkin: where location-based social networks should go next written by yan-david erlich over 9 years ago yan-david erlich is the founder & ceo of photography app mopho. he was also the founder and ceo of social.im and a product manager in the digital media consumer web group at google. location-based social networks are currently enjoying a great deal o... entertainment lionsgate uses "bad ass" foursquare tips and specials to promote "the expendables" written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago lionsgate has partnered with foursquare and local businesses to promote its upcoming action movie, the expendables. starting today, lionsgate will use its foursquare presence to provide followers with tips and specials -- all tied in to the "bad ass"... entertainment mit researchers developing smartphone app for 2-minute eye exams written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago mit media labs researchers are field-testing a smartphone application and $1 plastic lens attachment system called netra -- near-eye tool for refractive assessment -- for eye exams. netra is designed for doctors in developing countries that may not o... entertainment google dives into travel search with $700 million acquisition of ita written by adam ostrow over 9 years ago google has acquired ita, developer of the airfare search and pricing system qpx that is used by major airlines. the deal is for $700 million in cash and comes after months of rumors about google buying ita. now that it's a done deal, google plans to ... entertainment 10 fun ipod speakers for listening in style written by amy-mae elliott over 9 years ago an ipod is only as good as its speakers, even when what matters to you is cool factor more than audio fidelity. apple has described the ipod touch as the "funnest" ipod ever, and in that spirit we've rounded up 10 unique ipod speakers to compliment y... entertainment wordpress now lets you phone in your blog posts written by ben parr over 9 years ago you can already write and publish wordpress blog posts from your iphone, ipad, android, e-mail and desktop, but now you can also post audio via your phone. automattic founder matt mullenweg announced the new feature for wordpress.com earlier today. i... entertainment "twilight" 8-bit viral hit comes back to life after dmca takedown written by brenna ehrlich over 9 years ago remember that rather rad 8-bit twilight game we covered the other day? well, earlier today we were contacted by the creators, the fine brothers, who informed us that summit entertainment llc -- the studio behind twilight -- asked for the video to be ... entertainment history promotes foursquare presence in new 30-second tv spot [video] written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago tomorrow history -- otherwise known as the epoch-chronicling network, the history channel -- will start promoting its foursquare presence with a new spot. the ad in question puts foursquare front-and-center and will be getting major airplay throughou... entertainment google building a facebook rival? let's hope so written by pete cashmore over 9 years ago google is working on a social service to rival facebook, if web rumors are to be believed. and while google's social networking efforts have so far fallen flat, even satisfied facebook users should hope that the search engine's efforts bear fruit -- ... entertainment google will cover lgbt partner health benefits written by jolie o'dell over 9 years ago in something of a groundbreaking move, google is giving its employees in same-sex relationships extra cash to cover their partners' health benefits. currently, when receiving partner health care coverage, same-sex domestic partners are subject to an ... entertainment the world celebrates social media day [photo & video] written by vadim lavrusik over 9 years ago the inaugural social media day celebrated yesterday did exactly what it was intended to do: connect thousands of people face-to-face in their local communities, provide resourceful discussions around social media, and plant seeds for ongoing monthly ... entertainment mashable summer tour is coming to the west coast written by vadim lavrusik over 9 years ago the 2010 mashable summer tour is coming to a town near you, and we want to meet you. next week we're starting with the west coast. this summer we'll be coming to seattle, san francisco, washington d.c., new york city and chicago. next week, we're exc... entertainment productivity taking a dive during world cup [infographic] written by jolie o'dell over 9 years ago for continuous world cup coverage, check out mashable's 2010 world cup hub, which will be updated throughout the games. sales intelligence firm insideview has been gathering data about our economy and productivity during the world cup. globally, we'v... entertainment facebook's new photo tagging feature selects friends for you written by ben parr over 9 years ago facebook has begun testing face detection technology for facebook photos. this is the first of what seems like a series of new features for its popular photo product. the tests, which some users will see starting today, focus on decreasing the tediou... entertainment usethesource: a "hacker news" for beautiful code written by jolie o'dell over 9 years ago developer john graham-cumming was flattered, naturally, when someone on hacker news said his code was "beautiful." he was also inspired to create usethesource, a hacker news-like repository for other examples of beautiful code. if you're familiar wit... entertainment explosive q&a app formspring goes multiplayer written by jolie o'dell over 9 years ago one of the things that could make casual, social q&a sites even more fun is "multiplayer" features that allow you to interact with groups of more than one person at a time. formspring has just added such a feature. the site now lets you pose the same... entertainment amazon and acquisitions: an interview with woot ceo matt rutledge written by ben parr over 9 years ago yesterday, amazon acquired woot, the popular and incredibly quirky deal-a-day website network. the deal keeps woot intact as an autonomous subsidiary of the amazon empire (one that now includes zappos). there are still a lot of questions and unknowns... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 22 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.