we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for october 2018 tech 7 of the best handheld steam cleaners to satisfy your inner neat freak written by dana froome over 1 year ago make your cleaning tasks easier, faster, and more eco-friendly with our favorite picks. tech these 8 vacuum cleaners are the best for dealing with pet hair written by dana froome over 1 year ago from canister to cordless, these vacuum cleaners are tough on pet hair and easy on you. making sense of all the deals out there. image: pexels tech the best iphone deals in the uk for july written by joseph green over 1 year ago a deal for everyone, even you. culture lana del rey basically eviscerates kanye west's maga instagram post written by rachel thompson over 1 year ago "delusions of grandeur, extreme issues with narcissism." image: bob al-greene / mashable tech why i'm in no hurry to have rosie from 'the jetsons' written by alex hazlett over 1 year ago a new wave of technology has arrived and continues to develop rapidly. what will it mean to be a mother in ten more years? google maps added several updates to its app to make commuting much easier. image: robert nickelsberg/getty images tech google maps wants to be the only app you need for your commute written by sasha lekach over 1 year ago no more toggling between apps. culture 7 of the best gps dog collars and trackers to keep tabs on your pet written by dana froome over 1 year ago go all "big brother" on your furry bestie with devices that can track their location and activity. image: bob al-greene / mashable tech shh...my son doesn't play 'fortnite' written by alex hazlett over 1 year ago want to stop conversation? tell a group of middle school parents your child doesn’t play fortnite. image: vicky leta / mashable tech 10 apps to help kids control their emotions written by alex hazlett over 1 year ago introduce your child to a world of calm, mindfulness, and emotional maturity. jon snow's direwolf is returning in the final season image: courtesy of hbo entertainment a missing character is returning to 'game of thrones' for the final season written by laura byager over 1 year ago it's been a while. the best possible start to your week. image: amazon photo composite tech the best uk deals for monday: bosch coffee machines, amazon devices, wisdom teeth whitening strips, and more written by joseph green over 1 year ago celebrating international coffee day with an instant hit of deals. cyber security doesn't need to be scary. image: pixabay tech ipvanish has launched a huge sale to mark cybersecurity awareness month written by joseph green over 1 year ago protect yourself. business the perfect running companion that won’t slow you down written by key higdon over 1 year ago the closest you will feel to being a kangaroo. a woman kneels in front of a mural of savita halappanavar in dublin as votes are counted in the referendum on the 8th amendment of the irish constitution. image: niall carson/pa images via getty images culture emma watson pens moving open letter to savita halappanavar, who died after being denied an abortion written by rachel thompson over 1 year ago "you didn’t want to become the face of a movement; you wanted a procedure that would have saved your life." business the perfect fire-starter for your camping needs written by key higdon over 1 year ago this sure is a hot product. culture new google doodle celebrates slavery abolitionist mary prince written by laura byager over 1 year ago a galvanising force. undiscovered secrets are still lurking in google's products. image: anadolu agency / contributor tech google's new easter egg is a secret text adventure game written by stan schroeder over 1 year ago this is probably google's coolest easter egg ever. entertainment 'rocketman' teaser trailer is a trippy ride into elton john's past written by adam rosenberg over 1 year ago the "based on a true fantasy" retelling of music legend elton john's life is set to hit theaters in 2019. tech this wireless mophie smartphone charger is sleek and powerful written by cassidy miller over 1 year ago did we mention it's wireless? image: deveolver digital entertainment 'weedcraft inc' is a fun look inside the legally gray marijuana industry written by kellen beck over 1 year ago like a marijuana tycoon. image: mashable composite entertainment here's the scary movies you should watch this month written by alison foreman over 1 year ago grab your blanket and board up the windows. it's time for terror. entertainment yes, there's at least one train robbery in 'red dead redemption ii' written by adam rosenberg over 1 year ago 'red dead redemption ii' also has a ton of other stuff for you to do, as this new gameplay trailer demonstrates. save on all of these products and more. image: amazon/walmart/target/mashable photo composite tech best deals for oct. 1: save on instant pot, epson printers, beats headphones, echo show, lego, and more written by rudie obias over 1 year ago kick off your october with these amazing deals. culture 'matilda' stares down donald trump on her 30th anniversary written by marcus gilmer over 1 year ago the pint-size fictional heroine stands up to a modern-day cartoonish villain. imagine if draco just partied and took a bubble bath instead of trying to kill his headmaster. image: warner bros. entertainment gifts for slytherins who are just trying to have a good time written by alexis nedd over 1 year ago little luxuries for the glamorous slythie. tech google maps now lets you control music while navigating written by stan schroeder over 1 year ago well that's useful! image: rick kern / wireimage culture watch beto o'rourke sing 'on the road again' with willie nelson written by chloe bryan over 1 year ago over 50,000 people turned out for o'rourke's rally. social good lilly singh, jessica coen, jayathma wickramanayake talk about the power of youth written by ray white over 1 year ago listening to youth voices has never been more important. tech lg's cine shot is an easy way to make gif-like cinemagraphs written by jake krol over 1 year ago as features go, it certainly stands out. social good the lion's share fund aims to protect wildlife and biodiversity written by ray white over 1 year ago it's time to protect wildlife and corporations are stepping up. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 48 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.