we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for april 2012 entertainment conan o'brien buys mashable, ousts pete cashmore as ceo written by conan o'brien almost 8 years ago hello, fellow mashables. it’s conan o’brien, and i’ve got big news. two hours ago, i purchased mashable.com. i’ve taken it over. why did i take it over? very simple reason. i’m sick and tired of scanning the internet looking for any news about techno... entertainment april fools' day classics: top 10 viral pranks on youtube written by christine erickson almost 8 years ago people love a good trolling, whether it's online or not, and there's nothing like a company having a bit of harmless fun at the expense of a few thousand customers. whether it's a gag product or a fake movie trailer, when an april fools' day prank vi... entertainment westjet rolls out child-free cabins with kargo kids [video] written by charlie white almost 8 years ago we love kids, we really do. we even have a few of our own. but that love is stretched awfully thin when they're kicking our seats on a redeye flight, screaming in our ears from coast to coast, or doing some of the other alarming and distracting thing... entertainment exclusive: mashable ceo conan o'brien steals and tests apple itv written by conan o'brien almost 8 years ago conan o'brien has succeeded where others, especially pete cashmore, have failed: conan has stolen the upcoming apple itv so he can bring it to his fellow mashables. this is his hands-on report. see also: conan o’brien buys mashable, ousts pete cashmo... entertainment gmail tap: say goodbye to the qwerty keyboard written by zoe fox almost 8 years ago google has cooked up an idea it calls gmail tap, reinventing the qwerty keyboard as we know it. the new text input system, announced in a blog post on april 1 (ahem, april fool's day), uses finger taps rather than keys in mobile gmail. "think about t... entertainment the history of april fools' day [video] written by christine erickson almost 8 years ago you've probably thought long and hard about how to prank your best friend this april fools' day, but have you ever thought about where the silly holiday came from? this informational video by jeremiah warren reveals interesting facts about the histor... entertainment google april fools roundup: google releases flurry of crazy new apps [video] written by stephanie haberman almost 8 years ago did you really think google’s 8-bit google maps "upgrade" was the only trick the company was going to pull for april fools’ day? think again. google has packed a boatload of faux product releases into the first day of april, even offering to help opt... entertainment 10 resume tips for technology professionals written by tracy cashman almost 8 years ago tracy cashman is a partner and general manager in the information technology division at winter, wyman. find out more on the winter, wyman blog or follow on twitter @winterwyman. everyone can use a little help with their resume, especially if they're... entertainment flickr gets back to basics [video] written by charlie white almost 8 years ago is flickr taking the instagram concept a step further? if you visit the photo sharing site today, you might think your photos have been tossed back to the primitive days of the 1980s. a quick click on an icon on the bottom right of a flickr photo pag... entertainment google news fooled by april fools' day prank written by zoe fox almost 8 years ago who doesn't love a little april fool's day fun? apparently, not google news. the algorithmic aggregator of the web's top breaking headlines confused a spoof story for a serious one on sunday morning, slating it in the page-view-driving top spot. busi... culture first world problems: 14 cringe-worthy complaints written by amy-mae elliott almost 8 years ago social media has given us a voice we never could have imagined 20 years ago. we can easily share content online, free -- from inspiring images to our grandest hopes for the world. we can also use the social platform to whine like the spoiled brats we... entertainment facebook default profile pic: the origin story [comic] written by charlie white almost 8 years ago where did that facebook default profile picture come from, anyway? mashable's editor-in-chief and director of cartoons lance ulanoff tracked down the origin of that ubiquitous and mysterious photo, revealing its humble beginnings.... entertainment top 10 tech this week [pics] written by charlie white almost 8 years ago it was yet another rip-roaring week in the tech world, with a huge batch of compelling innovations from which to choose. undaunted, we narrowed it down to the most enticing 10. for instance, we found one of the world's most beautiful smartphones, we ... entertainment warby 'barker' brings you designer specs for your dog written by charlie white almost 8 years ago glasses for dogs? just picture it. or watch this video, where it will be brought to you in living color, showing off the latest fashion accessory for only the most hip-and-trendy doggies. you'll be happy to know they're available online, in a very sp... entertainment tablets are a dream come true for retailers [infographic] written by zoe fox almost 8 years ago since tablets have burst into the ecommerce space in the last few years, they've drastically altered the online shopping experience. that's a good thing for retailers. tablet users prefer to use tablets at home, an environment where they're more like... entertainment top 6 mashable comments this week written by jeremy cabalona almost 8 years ago have a look at some of the top mashable comments from this past week. each week the community team at mashable is on the lookout for thoughtful and insightful comments across mashable's web presence. while there are always outstanding comments on mas... entertainment apple developing 'killer' 3d camera for ios devices written by tabtimes almost 8 years ago what’s coming next from apple? the perennially secretive company doesn’t share much, but its patent applications can be an indicator of to expect in future products. the site patently apple spotted apple’s patent filing for a 3d imaging camera that w... entertainment how a high school prank call site turned into serious business written by sarah kessler almost 8 years ago when fahim saleh bought the domain name "prankdial.com," he fit the demographic one might expect: a high school boy in a small town, an occasional prankster and an internet geek. the site ran a simple prank call service. users entered a message, and ... entertainment 5 companies working hard to change the world written by lauren hockenson almost 8 years ago in our new series, the world at work, mashable interviews the faces behind the companies that are working to make a global impact. using the power of digital, these five companies have empowered citizens in need, rewarded innovation and created uniqu... entertainment conan o'brien unveils the future of twitter: manual tweets written by conan o'brien almost 8 years ago twitter is slow and it doesn't work on paper. what if you could change all that? mashable's new ceo conan o'brien has developed a solution: manual tweets. they work ... on paper. watch the video to see this astounding social media innovation for your... entertainment conan o'brien 'resigns' as mashable ceo written by conan o'brien almost 8 years ago conan o'brien has learned that, due to an unfortunate misunderstanding, he did not buy mashable and oust ceo pete cashmore. instead, he purchased a mash tv fan site. he regrets the error and is returning mashable to pete cashmore's control. see also:... entertainment 10 most-shared apple ad parodies of all time written by matt petronzio almost 8 years ago if imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, then apple's definitely the most popular girl at school. fans and haters alike have created spoofs, mocking the widespread apple advertisements that promote every new product. whether the ipad, iphone, ... entertainment ibm's big data challenge: a telescope that generates more data than the whole internet written by pete pachal almost 8 years ago there's a massive telescope on the drawing board that hasn't even started construction yet, but when it's finished in 2024, it'll generate more data in a single day than the entire internet. for scientists to ensure they'll be able to handle all that... entertainment sofi lets students borrow money for school from alumni written by emily price almost 8 years ago if you're looking for cash for school, then you may not have to look any further than your fellow alumni. meet sofi, a social lending service that lets alumni of a school help finance the education of future graduates and earn a bit of a return on th... business 10 most-shared apple ads on youtube written by brandon smith almost 8 years ago apple -- a small company based in cupertino, calif., that makes technological devices -- is often featured on youtube, a website that features many different videos uploaded by a lot of different people. if you've been wondering which advertisements ... entertainment genetic sensor boosts biofuel production written by technology review almost 8 years ago give bacteria a bit of self-awareness and they can be smarter about producing biofuel. that's the conclusion from researchers at the university of california, berkeley who report a genetic sensor that enables bacteria to adjust their gene expression ... entertainment bmw unveils new sporty hybrid concept: i8 spyder written by stan schroeder almost 8 years ago bmw has unveiled the third concept car from its i8 series of electric-gas hybrids: the i8 spyder. the i8 spyder is based on the i8 concept car which debuted in 2011, ditching the top and the back two seats, and perhaps some of the more radical ideas ... entertainment mashable weekend recap: 51 stories you might have missed written by charlie white almost 8 years ago it was a weekend where it was hard to tell what was real, if anything. in this time of springtime tomfoolery, we had to keep our wits about us here at mashable hq. all those pranks, mirth and merriment didn't keep us from our appointed rounds of find... entertainment nyc launches a better map app for tourists written by sarah kessler almost 8 years ago new york city is launching a better map for its 50 million annual tourists -- or at least one that makes it easier to patronize city businesses. a new iphone map app from the city's official tourism center portrays businesses not as little red pins, ... entertainment ashton kutcher to play steve jobs in biopic [report] written by stan schroeder almost 8 years ago ashton kutcher will play steve jobs in the indie biographical movie about apple's charismatic ceo, variety reports. matt whiteley will write the script, and joshua michael stern of swing vote fame will direct the movie, titled simply: jobs. the produ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 45 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.