we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for november 2005 entertainment should search engines log your search history? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago a must-read article: search engines prepare for behavioral targeting. it's fairly long, so here are some edited highlights for attention-poor readers: we're all used to patting down google, yahoo!, or msn for relevant information, but what if they st... entertainment grokking opml written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago don't know what opml is? you're not alone. alex barnett has a nice screencast which should help you out.... entertainment the slumbering giant awakes: microsoft goes web 2.0 written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago i haven't posted on the windows live news yet because i think we need some time for the dust to settle. my thoughts so far? this is not really about products - some of the "announcements" are just repackaging of old stuff - the real change is a philo... entertainment flash, ajax and yahoo maps: does the technology matter? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago a few weeks ago i weighed in on the flash vs ajax debate, saying that i marginally prefer ajax. well, today saw the launch yahoo maps beta, the third major entry in the online mapping space and the only service so far to use flash. the other two play... entertainment 2084: tech changes everything written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago bernard moon gave me a heads-up on his latest article: 2084. his prediction? george orwell was wrong: technology puts the people in charge.... entertainment richard macmanus: live.com has nothing on netvibes written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago after the launch of live.com, microsoft's first real foray into the start page space (start.com was purely experimental), richard macmanus has taken a fresh look at ajax start pages. it turns out the big boys have a lot of catching up to do if they'r... entertainment plum.com - bursting with juicy buzzwords written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago and the prize for most web 2.0 buzzwords in a single paragraph goes to....plum! from their teaser page: looking for a better way to collect and share all the things you care about, stumble across or need? believe in smart mobs? think that mash-ups ar... entertainment zoozio.com - another ajax start page written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago did someone order a netvibes clone? let's hope these guys have something new to offer once they launch.... entertainment uh oh: google just patented your attention written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago a few days ago i asked: should search engines log your search history? it looks like google plans to do exactly that - and more. it seems they've filed a patent which will let them serve up search results by tracking your every move - online and off.... entertainment amazon mechanical turk: human processing for web 2.0 written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago wow! i've often said that humans are better than algorithms, but it looks like amazon has taken that idea literally - they've created a web service that lets you solve problems using human minds. the mechanical turk has an api and pays human beings f... entertainment fruitcast: put ads in your podcast written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago fruitcast rocks! the service lets you insert short ads in your podcasts and get paid by advertisers when someone downloads you video. from techcrunch: fruitcast launched today. it's a service that automatically inserts 15 second sound advertisements ... entertainment pando beta written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago "pando is a tiny app that lets you email any size file or folder to anyone, free. "... entertainment revver beta written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago "revver supports video creators by helping them earn money and distribute their work widely. by attaching a revtag to a video, creators track their content anywhere online and make money every time a user clicks on the ad. revtags benefit creators, a... entertainment clipshack: the flickr of video, again! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago clipshack is a video sharing community. we built it so that people who enjoy shooting digital video and showing it to other people have an easy and fun place to do that. so if you want to share video with your friends and family, get some feedback on... entertainment dumb find: topical search written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago "through dumbfind’s two box search technology users are able to search for keywords (as they would on any ordinary search engine) and reorder those results using generalized topics. this is a new approach to search that allows users to better utilize... entertainment warning: don't underestimate amazon written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago while we're all coming to terms with our google obsession (apparently their lunches were more interesting than anything else on the web last friday), companies like amazon are quietly changing the world - and getting away with it! how quickly we forg... entertainment web 2.0 in china written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago there's much more to web 2.0 than silicon valley. china web2.0 review is a new blog covering everything web 2.0 in china, including feedsky - a feature-rich version of feedburner. excellent blog - subscribed. update: i wonder if the 43things guys aut... entertainment hacking memeorandum: more proof that algorithms don't work written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago tara "miss rogue" hunt, alex barnett and ben barren have been hacking memeorandum - trying to get a post to appear on the front page of the automated news site by gaming the system. and it appears to have worked. alex even created a screencast showin... entertainment suprglu: it's, like, totally web 2.5! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago back in october, i suggested that the yet-to-launch goingon network would be the first service to revolutionize social software. but it looks like the newcomer suprglu is doing very interesting things in this space. suprglu is one of a new breed of d... entertainment newsvine - social news that pays! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago russell beattie, om malik and techcrunch are reporting on a soon-to-launch news service called newsvine. the interesting bit? they plan to merge user-generated content with regular news items. even better, they want to add revenue sharing to the mix.... entertainment tailrank - social news recommendation engine written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago wow - it seems like there are hundreds of these social news sites springing up. but this one has real promise. kevin burton's tailrank (now in public beta) filters news according to your interests and those of others: tailrank is a social news recomm... entertainment pandora now free! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago pandora, the flash-based music recommendation engine, is now free. no signup required. rocks!... entertainment actually, mary, reputations *are* portable written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago if web 2.0 is about open data and preventing lock-in, then ebay feedback is its antithesis. you don't own your reputation - ebay does. you can't export it, take it to another site and start selling there (but hey, it looks like these guys are trying!... entertainment the robert scoble drinking game written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago when scoble says… * virtual earth- take a drink * zvents - take 2 drinks * gadget - take 3 drinks * attention - take 4 drinks * memeorandum - take a shot * disrupt - take 2 shots * disruptive - take 3 shots * disruption! - take 4 shots, a drink and m... entertainment fotolia - buy and sell stock photos written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago anil dash wants flickr to pay users for interesting photos. but in many ways, it's already happening elsewhere. techcrunch reports on newcomer fotolia, which seems like a more modern-looking version of istockphoto, with some clever new features. unli... entertainment attention changes everything written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago for the last few days i've been using the attentiontrust recorder and root.net. if you've got firefox, this basically lets you record everything you do online and analyse that data. root calls itself the "first open market for the pricing and exchang... entertainment does podcasting need better measurement? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago there's been a lot of buzz this weekend about audible's new service "wordcast", which - among other things - can provide accurate statistics on who has listened to your podcast. i'm not going to get into the debate about how audible's .aa format comp... entertainment if mp3 won't do, what next for podcasting? written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago in case you've been sleeping in a ditch this weekend, a quick catch-up: dave winer, doc searls, om malik, and jeff jarvis have all responded to the announcement that audible is releasing a new podcasting service called wordcast, which can - among oth... entertainment this post is being tracked by google analytics! written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago google analytics is now live on this site. so please click, scroll and take a look through the archives - let's see what this baby can do! my first impressions of the interface are extremely positive: unlike most google products, the ui is attractive... entertainment llor.nu - ruby on rails and ajax game written by pete cashmore over 14 years ago this is awesome! llor.nu is a board game written in ruby on rails and ajax. it's currently in open beta, so why not have a go?... ← previous 1 2 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.