we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for august 2007 entertainment download everything: 30+ firefox add-ons for downloading images, videos & files written by sean p. aune over 12 years ago every day we all run across content we would like to save a copy of. sometimes, it's even legal to do so. this toolbox gives you firefox add-ons to save just about anything from a webpage you could ever want. obviously you shouldn’t install these all... entertainment trulia releases useful data on real estate q&a forum activity written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago trulia, the real estate search engine, released some data on its recently launched social media platform, called trulia voices. this social media platform acts as a q&a forum for the community of real estate professionals and others involved or inter... entertainment splashcast releases white label solution for custom facebook apps written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago splashcast, the multimedia channels widget, has launched a white label version of its product, as a branded facebook application offering. for each customer, splashcast will create a custom wrapper for the media player, and will load it into facebook... entertainment news corp buys dow jones for $5.6bn written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago it's been a long saga that we've dabbled into from time to time, but today rupert murdoch snared dow jones. news corp says it will buy the newspaper for $5.6 billion, ending 105 years of ownership by the bancroft family. it's likely to be seen as bad... entertainment groops is german for ning written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago groops is a german-based site that ha recently launched. it lets you create and manage your own groups, and an english version is available. with groops, you can browse through groups based on search terms or tag words. each group displays its member... entertainment goombah holding starbucks music makers contest online written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago goombah, the social music discovery site, now lets you vote for and download tracks from the 3rd annual starbucks music makers competition. the 49 semi-finalists have been announced today. the online contest portion of the contest is powered by goomb... entertainment videotag is a game for funny youtube clips written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago videotag is a game where you must tag as many youtube videos as possible within a 10 minute time frame. this is a single player game, and you can make it to the leaderboard if you gain enough points. and how do you earn points? by tagging the videos,... entertainment buzznet adds yahoo vets to its executive team written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago buzznet, the music and pop culture social network, is adding two more people to its executive team. john glascott, former senior sales executive at hearst, ivillage, yahoo and realage, has been appointed executive vice president of sales. elizabeth o... entertainment associated content gets $10m in funding written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago associated content has gotten a $10 million series b round of funding, led by canaan partners. the citizen journalism site enables users to become contributors and create an online presence around their own content. as a site visitor or member you ca... entertainment zoho reaches 300,000 members written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago zoho has reached a landmark, having registered over 300,000 members. the company is now moving along the s curve, and is seeing some exponential growth for its suite of web-based document creation tools. the growth can also be attributed to the compa... entertainment treehugger acquired by discovery communications for $10m written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago treehugger, the popular blog about eco-friendliness, has been acquired by discovery communications, owners of the discovery channel. the price is said to be $10 million. the partnership will help treehugger reach its goals of getting mainstream atten... entertainment submityourvote launches basic polls site written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago submityourvote is a new polling website that has launched its service with a community included. you don't need to register in order to cast your vote on a particular poll, but membership is required for poll creation, and other site-specific actions... entertainment spinvox service soon available on skype written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago spinvox, the uk-based voice-to-text service, has teamed up with skype to offer its features for the voip provider. this new feature is set to be made available around the end of the year. it works like this: you'll be able to leave a voice message fo... entertainment mister wong holding contest to find new (non-racist) logo written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago mister wong, the german-based social bookmarking site, has had some global growing pains, largely due to its logo, which was perceived as racist to a very large crowd when the service launched in the u.s. see some mashable reader commentary here. its... entertainment yebotv broadcasting slayer live written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago yebotv, a video-sharing site with a focus on live music webcasts, will be streaming slayer's concert at the san diego sports arena. the concert will take place on august 25, 2007. this will be a live stream, letting viewers around the world watch the... entertainment mysidekick social search engine reviewed written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago you got the invites already. now here's a review. mysidekick is a social search engine that modifies searches as more people contribute data to the service. you can perform a regular keyword search on mysidekick, which will offer up the usual and exp... entertainment mycatspace launches niche pet community written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago mycatspace has officially launched. it comes from the same people that created mydogspace. the site is a social network for you and your kitty to meet other pet lovers and pets. the site is exactly like mydogspace, only it's for cats. you can sign in... entertainment ac/dc sells music through verizon--not itunes written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago ac/dc, the australian band, has finally decided to begin selling its music in a digital format, but has shocked many with its decision to not sign with itunes for distribution and sales. the band has instead decided to sign a contract with verizon v ... entertainment fliva officially launches interactive personality widget written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago fliva, the kinda-polls widget that's been in private beta for the past few months, has officially launched its service to the public. read our initial review here, and check out the mash-tastic fliva widget while you're at it. you'll remember that fl... entertainment similpedia searches similar results on wikipedia written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago similpedia is a search tool that is designed specifically to give you results on wikipedia. what you do is provide the url or a paragraph of text, and simpledia will find related content on wikipedia. the actual search function works well enough, and... entertainment unwired nation turns your site content into a phone call written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago unwired nation is a new service that lets your turn your web content into an audio recording for people to listen to on their cell phones. using its api, you can utilize the unwired nation service to create a podcast of sorts, which others can listen... entertainment trackfeeder launches daily review facebook app written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago trackfeeder, the site that brings you music reviews as a way to promote music discovery, has launched a facebook application called track of the day. the application is simple enough; it offers a review for the chosen track that's being promoted for ... entertainment could youtube ever be shut down for cyberbullying? written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago a group of teachers in the uk are requesting that some websites such as youtube should be shut down in order to keep students and administrative staff from being bullied in online networks. the specific issue here seems to be clips of students and te... entertainment feedburner adds self-publishing ads written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago feedburner is rolling out new options for pushing your feed ad content further and monetizing it better, with a new advertising option. clearly the acquisition of feedburner by google is garnering some quick and useful results, this coming shortly af... entertainment companyloop is facebook plus linkedin written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago companyloop is a new site that lets businesses create groups for coworkers to connect online. this operates somewhat like a white label version of linkedin, limiting functionality to only those included in the company. in order to join companyloop, y... entertainment graphita officially launches image editing tools written by kristen nicole over 12 years ago graphita live studio, the web-based image editing tool, is now live. read our initial coverage of graphita here. there are basic tools offered for image editing with graphita's live studio service: add shapes, captions, effects, etc. options for turn... entertainment mysidekick.com social search: 100 free invites written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago mysidekick.com is a new social search engine from gary culliss, chairman and founder of search company direct hit, which sold to ask.com after an ipo back in 2000. since august 2005, he has been working with the lead developer of direct hit, daniel r... entertainment last.fm adds video embeds written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago it's been a slow rollout for last.fm video,the video service from the music recommendations site. we reported in may that they'd begun soliciting videos from bands and labels, and today they went a step further, providing video embeds like the one be... entertainment disney acquires club penguin in $700 million deal written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago disney has acquired the kid-focused virtual world of club penguin in a deal totaling $700 million: $350 million cash and the chance to earn out $350 million more between now until 2009. the habbo hotel-like world for kids seems like a perfect fit for... entertainment gofish no longer buying bolt.com written by pete cashmore over 12 years ago gofish's purchase of bolt.com, which aimed to salvage bolt.com from a lawsuit and subsequent $10 million settlement with universal music, has fallen apart. the stock-for-stock transaction had bolt.com going to gofish for $30 million and was reported ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 26 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.