we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for august 2011 entertainment foxconn to replace some of its workforce with 1 million robots written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago foxconn, a company that manufacturers parts used in apple's iphone and ipad, said it aims to replace workers with 1 million robots in the next three years, xinhuanet reports. the robots will be assigned simple tasks currently done by human workers, s... entertainment adobe launches html5 web animations tool written by erica swallow over 8 years ago adobe released a public preview of adobe edge, its new web motion and interaction design tool, on monday. edge enables users to create animated content using html5, css3 and javascript -- not flash. it's the first professional-grade html5 editing too... entertainment apple wins dispute over ipods.com domain written by erica swallow over 8 years ago the world intellectual property organization (wipo) ordered on wednesday that the ipods.com domain name be transferred to apple from parking site holder mp3gold.com. apple filed an official complaint with wipo at the end of may, on grounds of tradema... entertainment mashable weekend recap: 26 stories you may have missed written by charlie white over 8 years ago it was a tense weekend in washington, but that didn't mean the rest of the world couldn't relax through the warmth of summer (or dead of winter for our southern hemisphere friends) this weekend. that slower pace didn't apply to us here at mashable, h... entertainment chrome overtakes firefox to become uk's second most-popular browser written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago google's web browser chrome is now the second most-popular browser in the united kingdom, according to web metrics company statcounter. chrome's market share has been on an upward trajectory globally, but in the uk google's browser has been doing exc... entertainment iphone 5, facebook's uk expansion & more: this morning's top stories written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. we’re keeping our eyes on six particular stories of interest today. iphone 5 launching in october, not september... entertainment next generation iphone coming in october [rumor] written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago contrary to some recent rumors, the next generation iphone is coming in october, not september, all things digital reports quoting sources familiar with the matter. after apple didn't reveal a new iphone during its yearly worldwide developers confere... entertainment mastercard rewards facebook places checkins in new "priceless" campaign written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago the original yankee stadium was demolished in 2010, but some of the seats have survived and are now being used in a facebook places campaign for mastercard. twenty such seats will be scattered around new york city starting monday. fans who find the s... entertainment nyt reporter responds to media bias accusations over #compromise hashtag written by emily banks over 8 years ago as twitter increasingly becomes a tool for journalists -- and now a tool for political acts -- they must find ways to filter their streams to see relevant content. that's what jen preston, of the new york times, did friday after president obama asked... entertainment 5 simple tips for better business websites written by kelli shaver over 8 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. there is one rule that typically holds true for all small businesses -- th... entertainment top 25 most-shared mashable stories in july written by brian anthony hernandez over 8 years ago google+ continued its dominance on our monthly most-shared stories list -- securing seven spots -- but news items about the comeback of 1990s nickelodeon shows and facebook's skype-powered video chat also battled their way into the spotlight. several... entertainment apple lawsuit delays samsung galaxy tab launch in australia written by christina warren over 8 years ago samsung has agreed to hold off bringing the galaxy tab 10.1 to australia until it resolves its patent lawsuit with apple, inc. apple and samsung are battling it out in court in several jurisdictions, including the u.s., south korea and now, australia... entertainment mathieu santos's new single introduces us to our computer-brained robot overlords [video] written by brenna ehrlich over 8 years ago each monday, mashable highlights an exclusive new video or song. check out all our music monday picks. ra ra riot's mathieu santos is out with a robot-themed video for the first single from his upcoming solo album, massachusetts 2010 (out tomorrow) -... entertainment twitter launches in dutch & indonesian written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago twitter launched in dutch and indonesian monday, bringing the microblogging service's total count of supported languages to 11. dutch and indonesian were the first two languages to be fully translated by a team of volunteers, who worked through twitt... entertainment lindsay lohan gabs with air new zealand puppet [video] written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago air new zealand is continuing its use of celeb cameos with a new video featuring lindsay lohan being interviewed by rico, the airline's puppet mascot. the five-minute video shows lohan playing the straight man to rico, a borat-like character who host... entertainment marketers expect to increase advertising on youtube, linkedin & foursquare [study] written by erica swallow over 8 years ago in the world of social media marketing, facebook and twitter dominate -- but advertising on youtube, linkedin and foursquare is expected to increase in the coming year, according to research conducted at the may 2011 pivot conference. of the marketer... entertainment viral star iamamiwhoami releases new video before her first live performance written by brenna ehrlich over 8 years ago each day, mashable highlights one noteworthy youtube video. check out all our viral video picks. one week before her first live performance at sweden's way out west, jonna lee (a.k.a. iamamiwhoami) is out with a new video -- a continuation of the vid... entertainment twitter confirms significant round of funding written by jennifer van grove over 8 years ago twitter confirmed tuesday that it has raised a "significant round of funding led by the venture firm dst global, with the participation of several of our existing investors." the announcement comes just weeks after rumors suggested that twitter was i... entertainment 5 ways google+ will drive social video growth written by chris schreiber over 8 years ago already using google+? follow mashable's pete cashmore for the latest about the platform's new features, tips and tricks as well as social media and technology updates. chris schreiber is director of marketing at social video advertising company shar... entertainment twitterverse rallies to prevent suicide written by zoe fox over 8 years ago the twitter community saved a south african mother's life following a string of suicidal tweets friday. beginning at 9:17 p.m. local time, the distressed mother began sending troubling messages, quickly catching the concerned attention of her followe... entertainment google buys daily deals aggregator dealmap written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago despite a flood of new entrants, the daily deals category is still red-hot, as evidenced by google's purchase of deals aggregator dealmap. the acquisition was confirmed monday; the terms were not disclosed. formed in may 2010, dealmap claims about 2 ... entertainment x games ushers in human tweeting [video] written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago ad agency wieden + kennedy, which is behind the old spice "the man your man could smell like" campaign, introduced "human twitter" last week during the x games on espn. the program worked like this: viewers who tweeted using the hashtag #humantwitter... entertainment apple puts tv shows in the icloud written by christina warren over 8 years ago apple has quietly enhanced icloud support for the itunes store, allowing users to re-download past television purchases and access them from itunes, on apple tv and within ios devices. in june, apple rolled out itunes and icloud integration, which ga... entertainment 5 best practices for beauty brands on facebook written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago among luxury and personal care brands, beauty brands -- a category that, for the purposes of this article encompasses cosmetics, fragrance, skin and hair care brands -- have emerged as among the most digitally savvy. this is partly because of beauty ... entertainment online friendship between musicians am & shawn lee turns into album [video] written by brenna ehrlich over 8 years ago each monday, mashable highlights an exclusive new video or song. check out all our music monday picks. ever wanted to collaborate with your favorite musician? you could follow in the footsteps of l.a.-based musician am, whose email to shawn lee helpe... entertainment what does social media mean for the future of mortality? [video] written by adam ostrow over 8 years ago with 48 hours of video being uploaded to youtube every minute, 200 million tweets being posted every day and the average facebook user creating 90 pieces of content each month, this generation is publishing an unprecedented amount of data that will l... entertainment zynga's words with friends to launch on facebook written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago words with friends, the popular zynga mobile game, is heading to facebook, zynga has confirmed. the new version of the word game will offer continuous play. that means if you start a game on your iphone or android device, you can continue it on faceb... entertainment mtv's 30th anniversary: has youtube killed the video star? written by christina warren over 8 years ago at 12:01 a.m. on august 1, 1981, the words "ladies and gentlemen, rock and roll" were spoken over a montage of the first space shuttle launch. and with that, the cable network mtv was born. originally accessible by a few thousand people on a northern... entertainment white house twitter q&a adds 3,100 followers per day written by chris taylor over 8 years ago u.s. president barack obama's #compromise campaign, which blasted his twitter followers with the handles of reps to write to, may have cost him some 36,000 followers. (although he has 9.4 million followers left, and the white house now says the drop ... entertainment facebook lets expectant parents add unborn children to friends & family written by jennifer van grove over 8 years ago expectant parents can announce the good news to their facebook friends via a brand new facebook family member status option. facebook's 750 million users can reveal their soon-to-be bundles of joy by updating the "friends and family" section of their... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 30 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.