we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for september 2012 entertainment linkin park music video puts your facebook photos in emotional tale written by brian anthony hernandez over 7 years ago from the masterminds behind the scary and viral "take this lollipop" video, linkin park's new music video for "lost in the echo" places your facebook pictures into the storyline to personalize the tale for each viewer. "i think we’re at a turning poi... business keep your style sustainable with this online retailer written by calin van paris over 7 years ago name: modavanti quick pitch: modavanti is an online retailer that promotes sustainable fashion. genius idea: interactive features like "my closet" and in-depth designer profiles function to create a community centered around eco-fashion. fashion forw... entertainment job seekers: beware these social media traps written by dani fankhauser over 7 years ago first impressions are everything, but sometimes they creep up on you. as a job candidate, 86% of potential employers will look at your social profiles -- even if you don't explicitly share those links. while facebook red-cup duty is common practice f... entertainment hands-on: samsung galaxy note ii vs. samsung galaxy s iii written by pocketnow over 7 years ago they’re not in the same class of device, and they’re not serving the same buyer segments, but that doesn’t mean we can’t do a comparison video. the galaxy s iii and the galaxy note ii share a common design lineage and a very similar software load, bu... entertainment facebook weeds out fake 'likes,' improves brand integrity written by neha prakash over 7 years ago facebook has stepped up its security on brand pages, working to remove fraudulent likes caused by spambots, malware or fake account users. most likely only less than 1% of any given page's likes will be removed, facebook's blog announced. facebook ha... entertainment all facebook apps to soon have notification capability written by charlie white over 7 years ago there could be a lot more notifications from facebook on the way. the company's rolled out a beta version of a new notifications api, a tool for developers that lets all facebook apps send notifications to users. this could open the floodgates to a p... entertainment twin baby girls rock out to daddy's guitar [video] written by neha prakash over 7 years ago these twin baby girls just can't resist jammin' out to dad's guitar, in unison. we wouldn't be surprised if we saw these two girls as full-on, popping-and-locking, janet jackson back-up dancers in the near future. but for now, they seem pretty happy ... entertainment new demo video shows purported 4-inch iphone screen in action written by appadvice over 7 years ago for a while now, we’ve been expecting the sixth-gen iphone to sport a four-inch screen. now, in a demo video commissioned by macrumors, one graphic designer has shown exactly how important the expected additional screen real estate will be to ios fan... entertainment 'doctor who' season premiere delivers scariest daleks ever [review] written by pete pachal over 7 years ago after an extended wait, doctor who kicks off its seventh season tonight on bbc america with a barn-burner of an episode, "asylum of the daleks." it's a tad surprising that steven moffat, doctor who's current show runner, would begin the season with a... culture top 10 gifs of the week written by matt silverman over 7 years ago think of all the things you could be doing instead of watching these loopy little animations. you could be working on your sci-fi novel. you could be calling your mom. you could be baking butter pecan cookies. see also: head back to school -- in gif ... entertainment white house unveils beer recipes [video] written by anita li over 7 years ago not everyone can be president of the united states, but now you can drink like one. the white house released its beer recipes saturday, just days after a reddit user made the request during president obama's "ask me anything." the potus' official res... entertainment 6 apps you don't want to miss written by emily price over 7 years ago it can be tough to keep up with all the new apps released every week. but you’re in luck -- we take care of that for you, creating a roundup each weekend of our favorite new and updated apps. this week we found an app that will help you set and reach... entertainment nasa simulates asteroid mission for potential 2025 flight written by space.com over 7 years ago houston — nasa’s plans to send astronauts to an asteroid by 2025 moved 10 days closer to being a reality this week, even though the target of that mission has yet to be found in space. the agency’s research and technology studies’ (rats) 10-day simul... entertainment top 10 twitter pics of the week written by neha prakash over 7 years ago boy bands from across the globe dominated the twitterverse this week. twitpics from pop band one direction and south korean artists were hard to get away from with thousands of retweets reaching tens of millions of people. our friends at skylines too... entertainment airplane seat to provide custom-controlled climate [video] written by anita li over 7 years ago alongside long security lineups and baggage fees, one of the biggest pet peeves associated with air travel is unpredictable temperatures on board planes. while the climate is freezing for her, it's way too hot for him. to remedy this, researchers at ... entertainment blood infection treatments to be discovered using crowdsourcing [video] written by ajp over 7 years ago the creators of mobile game foldit are bringing scientists together to cure sepsis, also known as "blood poisoning." the condition causes one's entire body to be inflamed as a result of an infection. it is the immune system's response to bacteria in ... entertainment hey billionaires, now you can park your car in the living room [video] written by neha prakash over 7 years ago living in a city is all glitz and glam, but having to park your car in a garage is one of the downsides. but don't fret for long. if you head to singapore, you can park your car in -- where else? -- your living room. why? because you and your lamborg... entertainment the internet, chairs pose for eastwooding photos written by anita li over 7 years ago eastwooding has taken over the interwebz -- and there are pictures to prove it. fans of the meme posted photos of empty chairs alongside the hashtag #eastwooding, which was inspired by actor clint eastwood's ten-minute chat with a chair at the republ... entertainment make 3d holograms with an xbox kinect [video] written by neha prakash over 7 years ago if you've ever wanted to turn your life into a sci-fi flick, here's your shot. grab your xbox kinect and take some videos of your living space. then use the site kinect@home to re-create your room into a 3d hologram image. the software stitches toget... entertainment 5 games you should play this weekend written by chelsea stark over 7 years ago as we head into the long holiday weekend, our thoughts all turn to barbecues, beaches ... and gaming. if you're looking for great games to occupy your time this weekend, we've rounded up a great list that spans all platforms. we tried to get a good m... entertainment fly this mind-controlled quadrotor using your thoughts [video] written by neha prakash over 7 years ago sharpen those mental skills -- researchers at china's zhejiang university have made it possible to fly a quadrotor using your mind. named flying buddy 2, the quadrotor doesn't run on fuel, but rather on your brainwaves. it uses an eeg headset to inte... entertainment everything you’ve ever wanted to know about presidents’ dogs [infographic] written by the jane dough over 7 years ago being president is tough, so it makes sense that most of our nation’s leaders have done the job with dogs by their side. a new infographic shows that canines have been guiding and comforting u.s. presidents for more than 200 years, a true testament t... entertainment 59 digital media resources you may have missed written by neha prakash over 7 years ago we're sure you spent most of the week talking to invisible presidents in a chair -- in true clint eastwood style -- so we don't blame you for missing out on all the digital resources and news that unfolded in the past few days. meanwhile, millions of... entertainment find your most popular facebook posts with this cool app [review] written by kate freeman over 7 years ago how popular was that cat video you posted on facebook? or how about those pictures from your most recent vacation? a new app called good sort will find your most popular posts on facebook according to likes, comments or shares. first, you have to let... entertainment 3 ways to keep tabs on your kids online written by tecca over 7 years ago is it impossible to keep tech-savvy teens safe online? a recent mcafee survey shows that 70% of teens hide online behavior from parents. some of the things they're hiding include violence and porn. but some teens also reported lying, cheating, steali... entertainment 5 apps to take on your next shopping adventure written by lauren indvik over 7 years ago want to shop smarter? shop with your smartphone. you're likely already aware that your smartphone can help compare prices and review items you're shopping for in stores. but did you know certain apps can also help you determine what you can afford to... entertainment top 10 tech this week written by charlie white over 7 years ago top 10 tech is presented by chivas. access a world of exclusive insider benefits – private tastings, special events and the chance to win a trip for you and three friends to the cannes film festival. join the brotherhood. even though we're in the mid... entertainment viral video recap: funniest memes of the week written by kate freeman over 7 years ago this week's hotest videos run the gamut from instructional to adorable to just plain nutty, and have morphed into some hilarious memes, too. the viral videos from this week have a little of everything -- adorable babies, "eastwooding" as it's now kno... for that old office feel. image: mashable photo composite tech 10 desirable docks and devices that turn your iphone into a desk phone written by nicole cammorata over 7 years ago get that '80s office feel with your iphone. entertainment how do you sort out fake followers from real ones on twitter? [infographic] written by kate freeman over 7 years ago the number of live humans following you on twitter might be significantly lower than your profile's "followers" number states. this infographic below shows that many celebrities and politicians on twitter -- often with millions of followers -- typica... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 55 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.