we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for may 2019 culture this parody nails what every 'hot ones' episode is like written by johnny lieu 11 months ago the coughing. so much coughing. let's play. image: orion pictures entertainment the new 'child's play' poster is dark stuff for 'toy story' fans written by shannon connellan 11 months ago "there's a new sheriff in town." entertainment jimmy fallon and robert irwin get cosy with a miniature horse written by johnny lieu 11 months ago more animals? yes please. entertainment 'queer eye' doing a rescue dog makeover will melt you into a puddle o' goo written by shannon connellan 11 months ago "if humans deserve to engage in self-care like that, then dogs sure as hell do as well." customize this luggage down to the color of the stitching. image: roam luggage culture save $50 on a personalized suitcase from roam luggage with this coupon code written by miller kern 11 months ago choose from more than a million color combinations. make it the best mother's day ever with this google home hub and google home mini combo deal. image: google tech google home hubs are $20 off for mother’s day written by dylan haas 11 months ago you’ll also get a free google home mini with your purchase. ground-in dirt is no match for this robot companion. image: ecovacs tech ecovacs deebot robot vacuums are 50% off on amazon written by dylan haas 11 months ago shop this one-day sale while you can. save on this smart watch that will help you stick to your fitness resolutions. image: sinji tech a $22 fitness tracker is here to help you reach your swole goals written by dylan haas 11 months ago keep yourself accountable on a budge with this cheap wearable. add to your favorite fandom collection with items on sale at thinkgeek. image: thinkgeek entertainment indulge your inner nerd with this *huge* sale at thinkgeek written by miller kern 11 months ago it's the perfect time to stock up on cheap merch. wipe that smirk off your face. image: hbo entertainment this 'game of thrones' fan predicted the ending of the battle of winterfell a year ago written by sam haysom 11 months ago impressive. plus deals on robot vacuums, ipads, and other mother's day gift ideas. image: amazon, walmart, home depot tech nintendo switch games, arcade1up arcade cabinets, ecovacs deebot, and more deals for may 1 written by chi kwen ngai 11 months ago arcade1up arcade cabinets sale: asteroids, centipede, and more for $199. the best deals on the biggest names. image: amazon photo composite tech apple ipads, huawei smartphones, sony speakers, 4k tvs, acer laptops, and more on sale for may 1 in the uk written by joseph green 11 months ago the best of the best. culture zac efron describes his scary skiing accident in painful detail written by rachel thompson 11 months ago thankfully he's ok now. julian assange was sentenced at southwark crown court on may 1. image: jack taylor/getty images tech wikileaks co-founder julian assange gets sentenced to 50 weeks in jail written by sam haysom 11 months ago he was sentenced on wednesday. more drivers can get in on rewards. image: uber tech uber's driver reward program goes bigger – and global written by sasha lekach 11 months ago mexico will be the first international city with driver rewards. science startling photos show torched california land roaring back to life written by mark kaufman 11 months ago out west, it’s our society — parks, homes, and lives — that will suffer from wildfire. the wild world will largely rise from ashes, sometimes gloriously. they're kind of cute. they're completely unsustainable. image: hbo entertainment why dany's dragons need to die for 'game of thrones' to end well written by alexis nedd 11 months ago dragons are bad for westeros and they're bad for history. chuck 'em in the bin. tech 8 of the best curling irons and hair wands in the uk written by joseph green 11 months ago the right curling tool for your hair will depend on its temperature, size, and material. tech 9 of the best laptops for windows 10 in the uk written by joseph green 11 months ago don't call it a comeback. sesame street is more than a children's tv show. it's a real nyc street now. image: tan honda/afp/getty images tech waze app can tell you how to get to sesame street written by sasha lekach 11 months ago just a right turn, quick merge, a street light, and you're there! make your dentist happy. image: amazon tech save £165 on this oral-b smartseries 6000 crossaction electric toothbrush and travel case written by joseph green 11 months ago there's no time to waste. act fast! fits any space. image: amazon tech save £20 on the stylish sonos play:1 smart wireless speaker written by joseph green 11 months ago style and substance. get your free voucher here. image: pexels tech get a free £5 voucher when you spend £50 or more at argos — plus more deals written by joseph green 11 months ago a gift to you. tech unboxing the lg g8 phone — asmr unboxing written by ray white 11 months ago we get up close and personal with the new lg g8 phone. science watch this stunning video of a tornado captured by drone written by marcus gilmer 11 months ago a new perspective on a powerful force of nature. when you order from the bouqs company, flowers for mother's day will make you the golden child. image: the bouqs company tech mother's day flower deals: save 20% on a delivery from the bouqs company with this code written by leah stodart 11 months ago these are *not* your average drug store bouquets. this deep fryer can hold five servings of fries at once. image: hamilton beach tech grab this hamilton beach deep fryer for only $20 at walmart written by miller kern 11 months ago indulge in all the fried food goodness. make savory sandwiches, quesadillas, and more with this press. image: amazon tech hamilton beach panini press is on sale at amazon — save $10 written by dylan haas 11 months ago who doesn’t love the delicious, savory crunch of a perfectly pressed sandwich? if you’re a member of the panini fan club and a collector of unique kitchen appliances, this device from hamilton beach is just the thing for you. entertainment tense 'handmaid's tale' season 3 trailer shows the women of gilead fighting back written by proma khosla 11 months ago blessed be the fight. huawei's p30 and p30 pro have arguably the best cameras on any smartphone. image: raymond wong / mashable tech there's no stopping huawei's smartphone growth written by raymond wong 11 months ago huawei's global domination will happen even if it doesn't sell its phones in the u.s. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 47 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.