we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for february 2009 entertainment hammertime: the iphone app written by pete cashmore about 11 years ago it's hammertime, the iphone app. yes, you too can keep up with mc hammer wherever you are, 24/7, on your iphone. seemingly part of a new line of celeb-apps, the hammertime app was build by loveland, colorado-based infomedia, creators of the extraordi... entertainment 30-level youtube game debuts written by pete cashmore about 11 years ago youtube's ability to embed links and annotations within videos is leading new forms of interactivity. take, for instance, a new 30-level "spot the difference" game based on the oscars (start playing by watching the video above). by highlighting areas... entertainment economic failure medley, by microsoft songsmith written by pete cashmore about 11 years ago microsoft's songsmith software, which "generates musical accompaniment to match a singer’s voice" has become infamous for the creation of painful versions of classic tracks like roxanne. now there emerges a more creative use of the tool: turning stoc... entertainment twestival unstoppable: live earth joins twitter fundraiser written by pete cashmore about 11 years ago twestival, the world's largest twitter charity event - and a cause that mashable is proud to have partnered on - has signed up another big name this weekend. liveearth, host of the largest global entertainment event in history (2007's concerts for a ... entertainment facebook's monetization plan? polls. and lots of them written by stan schroeder about 11 years ago facebook finally has a plan on how to monetize its vast user base: according to the telegraph, they will allow market research companies to poll facebook users on various details of their personal life. yes, that means your sexual orientation, your i... entertainment mashable's guide to upcoming social media and tech events written by tamar weinberg about 11 years ago it's a brand new week, which means it's time for mashable’s guide to upcoming technology and social media events, parties, and conferences. for more upcoming event listings, check out mashable's events section. not on this list? contact us and let’s ... entertainment how to: take your data back from google's claws written by stan schroeder about 11 years ago we've all pretty much become accustomed to the notion that google is this invincible internet giant which will always be there for us, but it's not always true. a good example was this weekend's fiasco, when (due to human error) google's search engin... entertainment google earth to go underwater written by adam ostrow about 11 years ago google’s mission is famously to “organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful.” apparently, that mission really does include the entire world, as the company is set to roll out an update to google earth that will inc... entertainment social music: top 5 music recommendation services written by jennifer van grove about 11 years ago the social music series is supported by blive share beta, hosts of the groove armada mini album. finding great new music can be the most rewarding experience, but sometimes the effort that goes into music discovery often thwarts even the most determi... entertainment gist is a power networker's fantasy service written by jennifer van grove about 11 years ago information overload. it's a problem that most of us struggle with on a daily basis. we each have our own systems for processing email, keeping our address books up to date, and managing our calendars. if your system is anything like mine, however, i... entertainment find the roots of your surname with dynastree written by jennifer van grove about 11 years ago online genealogy tools are a great resource for families looking to piece together their ancestries. one such web service has added a simple way to make more sense of your lineage, by tracing the roots of your surname. the new surname map feature, fr... entertainment got $40,000? you could buy jenny's number on ebay written by jennifer van grove about 11 years ago the song "867-5309/jenny," from the tommy tutone 2 album, is an 80's classic that most of us still love, and continue to blast and sign-a-long with from our cars, stereos, ipods, and karaoke bars. sing it with me: 8 - 6 - 7- 5 - 3 - 0 - 9, 8 - 6 - 7 ... entertainment 50+ free iphone apps to make you richer written by sean p. aune about 11 years ago the iphone and ipod touch are capable of a number of things, including helping you keep track of your money. from figuring out loan payments, to calculating tips and finding an atm within your network so you won't pay fees, there seem to be countless... entertainment affixa brings webmail to your desktop written by stan schroeder about 11 years ago affixa is, at its core, an e-mail management application. it acknowledges the fact that people are switching from desktop e-mail clients to webmail, and therefore it focuses on bringing better support for gmail and yahoo mail to your desktop. it does... entertainment who is that new follower? ask socialwhois written by adam ostrow about 11 years ago while the names of some new followers i get on twitter or friendfeed immediately ring a bell, with others, i have no idea who the person might be. typically, i can make a “re-follow decision” within a few seconds by checking out their profile and cli... entertainment forget paper: use gmail tasks on iphone or android written by jennifer van grove about 11 years ago forget paper? that may be a little drastic (and presumptuous), but the gmail blog has an incredibly tongue-in-cheek post that details how paper, even in our modern times, has been the scrap pad of choice for quickly jotting down tasks. google seems t... entertainment why do we love youtube but hate eric bauman? written by muhammad saleem about 11 years ago muhammad saleem is a social media consultant and a top-ranked community member on multiple social news sites. you can follow him on twitter if you've been using the web to procrastinate or otherwise waste time since the pre-youtube days, you're proba... entertainment what is twitter's vision? written by mark drapeau about 11 years ago mark d. drapeau, ph.d., is a washington, d.c.-based biological scientist, government consultant, and frequent writer on social media and society. perhaps overshadowed by super bowl chatter, the past weekend was also noteworthy for a thoughtful wall s... entertainment google execs face jail time for offensive video written by stan schroeder about 11 years ago according to the new york times, four google executives are facing criminal charges - which might result in jail time - because of an offensive video posted on google video in 2006. the video in question depicts four youths teasing a kid with down sy... entertainment skype 4.0 promises improved call quality; will it deliver? written by adam ostrow about 11 years ago version 4.0 of skype (download here) has arrived, with a host of new features including full-screen video calling and a revamped instant messaging system. while a few new bells and whistles sound nice, what i’m most interested in about the new skype ... entertainment 7 productivity tips, plus tools for freelancers and web workers written by elliott kosmicki about 11 years ago elliott kosmicki is the founder of goodplum.com - a productivity and personal development blog for home business owners. you can also follow elliott on twitter. you know you can be better. we all can. it's the reason productivity and personal develop... entertainment google and yahoo merge services (in korea) written by stan schroeder about 11 years ago see? we can all get along if we try. google korea and yahoo korea have agreed to merge several of their key services, thinking they could both benefit from the partnership. under the agreement, video clips from the korean version of youtube will show... entertainment plan family-friendly trips with trekaroo written by jennifer van grove about 11 years ago travel sites are a dime a dozen, but they do little to help parents find family-friendly vacations. if you've got a family, and you're looking for a resource on tips and destinations that are kid-appropriate, then turn to trekaroo. trekaroo is a trav... entertainment gmail saves you clicks with “move to” option written by adam ostrow about 11 years ago google wasn’t kidding when they indicated that they were going to re-focus on their key products. gmail is getting yet another useful upgrade today – the introduction of a “move to” option that lets you apply a label to a thread and archive it in one... entertainment amazon toys with game download store written by jennifer van grove about 11 years ago don't have an iphone? dissatisfied with yahoo games? love amazon? okay so that might leave just a handful of you, but starting today you can download your favorite games from amazon's new game download store. the new offering, not-so-uniquely labeled... entertainment embed custom google news on your website written by adam ostrow about 11 years ago another cool new feature from google today: the ability to create a google news slideshow that you can embed on your own website. the company has launched the newsshow wizard that lets you pick a search expression (“social media” in the example below... entertainment new technorati tag pages: good for them, but what about you? written by jennifer van grove about 11 years ago perhaps in an effort to boost traffic and become relevant again, technorati is opening up a new service, previously in beta, that lets you create content for them in exchange for exposure. technorati's fresh tag pages and blurbs creates a wikipedia-l... entertainment christian bale: social media sensation written by adam ostrow about 11 years ago unless you’ve been living under a rock, or prefer to claim all ignorance of pop culture happenings, you’ve probably heard about the christian bale rant by now. the star of the dark knight and american psycho was captured on tape verbally assaulting a... entertainment facebook turns 5; you get free gifts written by jennifer van grove about 11 years ago tomorrow facebook will celebrate its fifth birthday. the grown-up site has come a long way since its college-only days, and what better way for facebook to share the love then to give its 150+ million members free gifts? now don't get too excited - t... entertainment 15 great flickr extensions for firefox written by sean p. aune about 11 years ago no matter how good a service is it can always use a few tweaks, and flickr is no different. the 15 add-ons we've gathered below for firefox will help with everything from navigation to uploading, accessing flickr in countries that block the service, ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.