we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for august 2018 a federal judge blocked an online group from releasing blueprints for 3d printable guns. image: oli scarff/getty images tech federal judge blocks release of plans for 3d-printed guns written by sasha lekach over 1 year ago they were set to be available on aug. 1. nissan's rda system alerts you if you don't go back for something you left in the car. image: nissan tech new smart car feature alerts you if you leave something in the back seat written by sasha lekach over 1 year ago it may be basic tech, but it's potentially life-saving. culture the rock gifted his stunt double a new truck and it's so wholesome written by morgan sung over 1 year ago santa claus is real, and his actual name is dwayne 'the rock' johnson. chill. image: drew angerer/getty tech tim cook casually tosses light shade at donald trump's tariffs written by jack morse over 1 year ago cook is not a fan of tariffs, especially ones that could impact the price of some apple products. "the sinner" uncovers the innocence buried inside everyone who is deemed guilty image: peter kramer/usa network entertainment the new season of 'the sinner' is your next crime thriller obsession written by jess joho over 1 year ago finding innocence in guilt. really, gang? king t'challa demands better than this. image: marvel studios entertainment study finds almost no increase in diversity in popular films over the last decade written by jess joho over 1 year ago things are somehow worse than we thought. facebook cuts off data access to "hundreds of thousands of inactive apps." image: guillaume payen/sopa images/lightrocket via getty images tech facebook cuts off access to user data for 'hundreds of thousands' of apps written by johnny lieu over 1 year ago so long, farewell. culture instagram account celebrates women's self-expression through hair written by rachel thompson over 1 year ago colour and cut is not just a 20th and 21st century thing. this bad boy was selling well. image: raymond wong/mashable tech huawei overtakes apple to become second largest smartphone vendor written by stan schroeder over 1 year ago there's a new number 2. culture good dog named stormy gets medal for finishing half-marathon like humans written by johnny lieu over 1 year ago what a good boy. it's a small (grindr) world after all. image: thomas trutschel/photothek via getty images culture grindr conversation comes with an excellent lady gaga-related plot twist written by johnny lieu over 1 year ago not your typical grindr conversation. image: nick knight culture did rihanna just bring back the thin eyebrow trend? written by rachel thompson over 1 year ago the age of skinny brows is upon us. jordan peele's new film is well underway. image: frederic j. brown/afp/getty images entertainment jordan peele's creepy new film 'us' now has a full cast and release date written by sam haysom over 1 year ago not. too. long. now. facebook and instagram kind of sort of have a way to (maybe) break your addiction. image: getty images tech facebook and instagram's attempt to break your addiction probably won't written by karissa bell over 1 year ago are you ready to find out how much time you've been wasting? image: chris taylor/mashable tech this actual black mirror could help you lose weight written by chris taylor over 1 year ago the naked body scanner builds a 3d clone of you out of gray goo. what could possibly go wrong? portrait of german photographer gerda taro seated behind a typewriter on a desk, paris, france, 1936. image: fred stein archive/getty images culture google doodle celebrates first female war photojournalist to report from the frontline written by rachel thompson over 1 year ago "a photographer’s eye, a journalist’s soul, and a warrior’s courage." maisie williams is now an app-creator as well as an actress. image: daisie tech maisie williams launches new app, takes to twitter to answer questions written by sam haysom over 1 year ago she makes lists *and* apps. this fall, apple might launch an iphone with two sim trays. image: thomas trutschel/photothek via getty images) tech dual-sim iphone may be in the works written by stan schroeder over 1 year ago an iphone with two sim trays? why not. the new snapchat lenses are predictably addictive. image: jake krol/mashable tech snapchat lenses can now be controlled with just your voice written by jake krol over 1 year ago the power is in your voice. save on products for your home, kitchen, theater room and more. image: amazon/mashable photo composite tech amazon has deals today on kitchenaid appliances, bissell and dyson vacuums, 4k smart tvs from sony, lg, and samsung, and much more written by rudie obias over 1 year ago today's deals are all about the home. president donald trump wondering if grocery stores are fun. image: joe raedle/getty images culture donald trump gets trolled after he basically admits he's never been to a grocery store written by nicole gallucci over 1 year ago you don't need a photo id to buy food, sir. get ready for the premier league 2018/2019 season with this awesome package image: sky / mashable photo composite entertainment get £342 off sky sports and sky entertainment hd in time for the premier league written by dominyka bucelyte over 1 year ago yes please. what are 3-d printed guns, like this liberator pistol, and why is the president of the united states suddenly tweeting about them? image: robert macpherson/afp/getty images tech everything you need to know about the 3d printed gun debate written by matt binder over 1 year ago what are 3d printed guns, and why is the president of the united states suddenly tweeting about them? step up your marketing game with the help of these three apps. image: /search tech get these 3 startup-friendly marketing apps for less than $40 right now written by kevin billings over 1 year ago apps for instagram, email, and full online campaign marketing, all for $39.99. smokey, grilled, and delicious. image: pit boss entertainment save $150 on the pit boss wood chip grill at walmart and become a pit boss at home written by kevin billings over 1 year ago become the local pit master and save big on this wood chip grill. an air india pilot got to fly her mom on her last day of work. image: wu hong/afp/getty images culture pilot's tweets about flying her own mother is the feel good story we need right now written by sam haysom over 1 year ago "it was my mom's dream..." with dex mode, the samsung galaxy tab s4, is more pc-like than an ipad pro. image: raymond wong/mashable tech samsung’s galaxy tab s4 is an android tablet that becomes a pseudo-laptop when you need it written by raymond wong over 1 year ago the ipad pro has more competition. culture the putin playing the piano meme is a source of constant joy written by amanda luz henning santiago over 1 year ago 'making my way downtown walking fast' save 44% on this stand mixer from kitchenaid. image: kitchenaid/mashable photo composite entertainment the kitchenaid professional stand mixer is now on sale for only $219 on amazon written by rudie obias over 1 year ago no wedding registry is complete without it! entertainment this 2015 mixtape predicted priyanka chopra and nick jonas written by proma khosla over 1 year ago this ship just shot up in approval ratings. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 47 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.