we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for march 2010 entertainment top condé nast magazines are coming to ipad written by stan schroeder about 10 years ago when the ipad was announced, some media partnerships were announced with it, but it wasn't hard to guess that, in the period before the device actually comes to the market, we'll see many more. we already know that condé nast is working on an ipad ve... entertainment social networks play a major part in how we get news [stats] written by stan schroeder about 10 years ago the latest study from pew internet analyzes the news americans are consuming and various different ways they find news. based on a sample of 2,259 adults, the study reveals that three fourths of the people (75%) who find news online get it either for... entertainment we7 gives uk users another music streaming option on the iphone written by stan schroeder about 10 years ago peter gabriel-backed uk music streaming service we7 just launched an iphone app that lets premium+ users listen to music on their iphones, ad-free. we7 gives several options to users: free service is ad-supported, and works worldwide, premium option ... entertainment intuit offers a new look at the economy and employment trends written by adam ostrow about 10 years ago many economists (and the president) believe that small businesses will be what reignite job growth in the u.s. today, intuit is out with a new way to track that theory -- a monthly small business employment index that leverages payroll data from tens... entertainment upgrading to windows phone 7 may not be possible written by stan schroeder about 10 years ago yes, most of us want windows phone 7 to be very different from windows mobile. and microsoft promised that it will, indeed, be different -- closer to the latest generation of zunes than to a windows mobile 6.x phone. but it comes with a price: chance... entertainment 10 reasons you should attend or watch a global ignite week event written by jennifer van grove about 10 years ago what was once just a seattle event -- first started by brady forrest of o'reilly media and bre pettis formerly of etsy.com in 2006 -- ignite has grown to become an ongoing series of international geek gatherings where the brightest minds get five min... entertainment ok go allows embeds with new version of their music video written by brenna ehrlich about 10 years ago last month, we spoke with pop rock band ok go about the controversy that arose when emi put the kibosh on embedding the video for their latest single, "this too shall pass." today, a second video for the song will premiere on their website -- this ti... entertainment blog written by matt silverman about 10 years ago image courtesy of istockphoto, johnnyscriv... entertainment movieclips makes legally licensed movie clips available internationally written by christina warren about 10 years ago today, video-sharing site movieclips.com is opening itself up to the world and also offering developers access to its api. back in december, we covered the launch of movieclips.com -- which is kind of like hulu, but for movie clips. the site -- which... entertainment google chrome continues to grow at other browsers' expense written by samuel axon about 10 years ago remember how google chrome's market share grew last month, but firefox and internet explorer's shares slipped downward ever-so-slightly? that trend continued in february, according to web analytics company net applications. this time, however, chrome... entertainment mashable's weekly social media conference guide written by tamar weinberg about 10 years ago it's a brand new week, which means it's time for mashable’s guide to upcoming social media and web events, parties, and conferences. for more upcoming event listings, check out mashable's events section. is your event not on this list? contact us at ... entertainment sony playstation network outage could last 24 hours written by amy-mae elliott about 10 years ago update: sony playstation network has been restored. --- it may be some time until sony playstation 3 owners can resume their usual online activities, according to a new blog post from sony revealing it could take 24 hours to fix the glitch, which hit... entertainment will the ipad launch be delayed? [rumor] written by christina warren about 10 years ago an analyst has been speculating that manufacturing bottlenecks may reduce the number of ipads available at launch -- or delay it entirely, according to allthingsd. more than a month ago, steve jobs unveiled the ipad to the world, with an ambiguous "l... entertainment viral youtube video gets crying 3-year-old fan a justin bieber visit written by jennifer van grove about 10 years ago a viral video of a 3-year-old crying fan caught the eye of pop star justin bieber (and/or jimmy kimmel producers), who paid the girl's entire family a visit this past friday. he also tweeted about the meet and greet and posted a photo to showcase the... entertainment who's dominating oscar buzz online? [stats] written by jennifer van grove about 10 years ago avatar -- the biggest movie ever -- is also the most buzzed-about film online. it accounts for more than one quarter of all oscar buzz, according to new data released by the nielsen company. data encompasses online conversations related to the 82nd a... entertainment how twitter in the classroom is boosting student engagement written by greg ferenstein about 10 years ago professors who wish to engage students during large lectures face an uphill battle. not only is it a logistical impossibility for 200+ students to actively participate in a 90 minute lecture, but the downward sloping cone-shape of a lecture hall indu... entertainment google acquires online image-editing tool picnik written by ben parr about 10 years ago google has just acquired picnik, a popular web-based image editing software. the sale was announced on the picnik blog and the google photos blog. picnik, which first started in 2005, has become a popular online alternative to image-editing software ... entertainment free music monday: get 10 free downloads right here! written by barb dybwad about 10 years ago greetings and salutations, music fans! please join us for free music monday this week, wherein we offer you 10 free downloadable mp3s or full albums for your eclectic listening pleasure. if you haven't hung out with us before, we're giving away free ... entertainment twitter opens up the firehose to startups written by ben parr about 10 years ago twitter has just announced that it has opened up its full data feed of all public tweets -- a.k.a. the "firehose" -- to seven new startups, and is looking to partner with more to give them access to the data. currently, only a few partners have acces... entertainment how to: create a successful company blog written by mark suster about 10 years ago mark suster is a partner at grp partners, a venture capital firm in los angeles. he blogs at both sides of the table and can be found on twitter at @msuster. i'm often asked by entrepreneurs and business owners whether it is worth blogging, and if so... entertainment phishing returns to twitter via direct message [warning] written by adam ostrow about 10 years ago another wave of twitter phishing has erupted this afternoon, with a spat of direct messages that read “somebody wrote something about you in this blog here” with a link to an ominous short url. that short url asks users to log in to twitter, but one ... entertainment '90s teen drama "felicity" foresees the coming of the ipad [video] written by brenna ehrlich about 10 years ago sometimes, when television shows go into reruns, we resort to watching truly horrible '90s teen shows to fill the void. and sometimes, when doing so we discover gems, such as this clip from felicity, in which some random guest star (a.k.a. amy smart ... entertainment streamy awards to honor web video's best: here are the nominees written by samuel axon about 10 years ago the nominees for the second annual streamy awards were revealed in a live webcast today. the streamys are awarded to web tv series by the international academy of web television — they're similar to the oscars, emmys or grammys. nominees were selecte... entertainment google buzz gets an unofficial app directory written by christina warren about 10 years ago buzzaware is a new googlebuzz-focused app directory that is focused on keeping all buzz related add-ons, apps and plugins in one place. google buzz launched a few weeks ago, and even without a completed api, somef developers are still building their ... entertainment google secures broad patent for location-based advertising written by ben parr about 10 years ago google, the world's largest search engine and the owner of the world's largest online advertising platform, has been granted a major u.s. patent for "determining and/or using location information in an ad system." in other words, google now owns a ke... entertainment online gaming faceoff: xbox live vs. playstation network written by barb dybwad about 10 years ago it's time once again to pit two contestants against each other in an all-out battle for the hearts and minds of mashable readers. in this week's web faceoff, we wanted to get a sense of which online console gaming service mashable readers prefer: mic... entertainment icyte creates sharable bookmarks from highlighted text written by samuel axon about 10 years ago this post is part of mashable's spark of genius series, which highlights a unique feature of startups. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. the series is made possible by microsoft bizspark. na... entertainment sharethis adds real-time streaming to share tool written by christina warren about 10 years ago the sharing service sharethis is familiar to lots of internet users -- thanks to its popular plugin and sharing buttons. now the service is introducing sharethis stream, which adds a real-time and social element to what is being shared by your friend... entertainment twitter location api to support places written by stan schroeder about 10 years ago i know what you may be thinking: twitter location api already supports places; that's why they call it the location api, right? well, yes and no. currently, it supports latitude and longitude, which tells the world where, exactly, you were located wh... entertainment new chrome beta offers automatic webpage translation written by stan schroeder about 10 years ago there's a new beta version of chrome available (version 4.1.249.1021), bringing two very nifty features to google's browser. first is automatic translation of webpages in language different from your preferred language setting in chrome. the browser ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 23 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.