we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for february 2012 tech the 10 most blatant design ripoffs in social media written by pete pachal about 8 years ago in the world of social media, discovering that worthwhile original idea for your app or website is by far the hardest thing to get right. it's so hard, in fact -- and the field so potentially lucrative -- that many parties who jump into the field ten... entertainment kazuo hirai is sony's new president and ceo written by stan schroeder about 8 years ago kazuo hirai is sony's new ceo and president, replacing howard stringer, the company has announced. the change is effective april 1st, and comes after a couple of rough years for sony, with 2011 being particularly troublesome. the company's earnings w... world nasa launches facebook game to test space program knowledge written by sam laird about 8 years ago how much do you know about the nasa space program, earthling? nasa has launched a multi-player facebook game to test just that. space race blastoff poses a series of surprisingly tough questions -- for example, who launched the first liquid-fueled ro... entertainment vw's sequel to 'the force' super bowl ad features dog, vader [video] written by todd wasserman about 8 years ago a chubby dog gets in shape to chase a beetle in volkswagen's long-awaited sequel to its "the force" super bowl ad from last year. and don't worry, there's a shout out to star wars as well. mark hunter, cco of deutsch la, which created "the force" and... entertainment barnes & noble: we will not carry amazon publishing titles in our stores written by paidcontent about 8 years ago about half an hour before amazon announced q4 earnings, barnes & noble released a new statement saying it will not carry titles published by amazon—including the amazon titles that houghton mifflin harcourt is selling in print—in its “store showrooms... entertainment today’s top stories: facebook ipo, kazuo hirai new sony ceo, megaretrieval written by stan schroeder about 8 years ago welcome to this morning’s edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. today, we’re looking at three particularly interesting stories. facebook's ipo likely in the $5 billion range fa... entertainment pearson-backed startup aims to be the zynga for learning written by sarah kessler about 8 years ago what if the 232 million people who log into zynga's facebook games each month instead spent hours working through online learning resources? at least where teens are concerned, a new pearson-backed startup alleyoop is betting the result would be more... entertainment want to search google images? draw a picture [video] written by mashable video about 8 years ago searching for images on google isn't always an easy task using words alone. your search is going to rely on how images on the web are tagged or captioned. a new tool, however, lets you use self-created images, rather than words, to find pictures on t... entertainment wave at your pc: kinect for windows now available written by stan schroeder about 8 years ago as steve ballmer promised in january, microsoft has released version 1.0 of the kinect for the windows software development kit (sdk). improvements since the beta 2 version, which was released in november 2011, include support for up to four kinect s... entertainment hootsuite now ties in digg, inboxq and trendspottr written by brian anthony hernandez about 8 years ago fresh off reaching 3 million users in january, social media management dashboard hootsuite is adding three apps to its app directory and releasing its engagement api. users can now integrate digg, inboxq and trendspottr into their dashboards starting... entertainment augmented reality goggles virtually recreate crime scenes [video] written by mashable video about 8 years ago augmented reality could soon be used to solve crimes. researchers at delft university of technology in the netherlands have created ar goggles that let investigators create 3d videos of crime scenes, tag evidence and then virtually re-visit the scene... entertainment kinect fusion will turn gaming (and more) into a 3d fun house written by lance ulanoff about 8 years ago it’s true, people are getting very excited about the idea of kinect coming to desktops and laptops (it's available now): imagine being able to control windows 7 or 8 with a wave of your arm or finger. however, that seems like child’s play when compar... entertainment best buy super bowl ad swaps celebs for tech innovators instagram and square written by todd wasserman about 8 years ago best buy's super bowl ad will celebrate mobile technology inventors by featuring the creators of the camera phone, instagram and square. the 30-second spot is a creative change in direction for the retailer, which tapped ozzy osbourne and justin bieb... entertainment tony bennett and john mayer debut music video for 'one for my baby' [exclusive] written by zachary sniderman about 8 years ago tony bennett has been on a bit of a tear supporting his new album of all-star duets. now, bennett is premiering his video for "one for my baby (and one more for the road)" with john mayer exclusively on mashable. the track appears on "duets ii: the g... entertainment foodspotting's new apps focus on food discovery written by sarah kessler about 8 years ago by collecting 1 million photos in two years, foodspotting has proved that some people really do want to share what they had for lunch. but even so, the startup's latest apps, launched tuesday, focus on the much bigger group of people who just want to... entertainment wikileaks founder assange fighting extradition written by alex fitzpatrick about 8 years ago julian assange, the embattled 40-year-old founder of wikileaks and self-described "protector of victims," appealed his extradition to sweden before britain's supreme court on wednesday. the appeal is assange's latest move to avoid being sent to swede... entertainment site archives all 'sh*t people say' videos [sorry] written by brian anthony hernandez about 8 years ago if you're in the mood to contribute to the viral "sh*t people say" madness, head over to has anyone said this shit. the simple website lets you watch, submit and search for videos by stereotype. the first iteration of the unstoppable meme -- "sh*t gi... entertainment diy online storefront solution shopify buys mobile engineers written by sarah kessler about 8 years ago shopify, which powers more than 20,000 online stores, announced wednesday that it has acquired a mobile studio in canada called select start (s3). more accurately, it has acquired its team of more than 20 mobile engineers and designers. "the s3 acqui... entertainment internet explorer 9 growing fast on windows 7 pcs written by pete pachal about 8 years ago windows users can't get enough of internet explorer 9. that's the message microsoft is driving hard, releasing statistics that show its most recent web browser is growing strong among users of windows 7 pcs. ie9 is now the primary browser on 36.2% of... entertainment this swarm of flying robots will terrify and amaze you [video] written by stan schroeder about 8 years ago for some people, flying robots are a dream; for others, they are a nightmare from a dystopian sci-fi novel. whichever camp you fall in, you'll probably appreciate a video showing flying machines performing some pretty advanced maneuvers. a flying nan... entertainment analyst: google+ hits 100 million users written by todd wasserman about 8 years ago facebook who? on the same day the tech world awaits the social network's ipo filing, fledgling rival google+ is set to break 100 million users, according to one analyst. paul allen, a google+ watcher, says the network will hit 100.8 million users by ... entertainment how kawasaki motorcycles is using social media to get ahead [video] written by mashable video about 8 years ago motorcycles may be sexy, but the industry is crowded with fierce competitors like yamaha, suzuki, ktm and honda. how did kawasaki, a relatively small brand, race to the front of the pack? answer: social media. check out the latest episode of behind t... entertainment google privacy creeping you out? microsoft says it has alternatives written by zoe fox about 8 years ago if you've been thinking google's privacy changes have gone too far, you're not alone -- microsoft is with you. frank x. shaw, vp of corporate communications for microsoft, wrote in an official microsoft blog post wednesday that the company noticed go... entertainment is this the first blackberry 10 phone? [pic] written by pete pachal about 8 years ago a blackberry enthusiast site claims to have an image of the research in motion's blackberry 10 smartphone, called the "london." the image, which appears to be part of a larger presentation, shows a slim touchscreen phone that looks more like a droid ... entertainment 4 sales tips for enterprise software startups written by jevon macdonald about 8 years ago jevon macdonald is the co-founder and ceo of goinstant, a shared browsing service used for sales and support co-browsing. he blogs at startupnorth.ca and was previously a founding partner of dachis group. follow him on twitter @jevon. enterprise soft... entertainment senators don't want your netflix viewing history on facebook [video] written by alissa skelton about 8 years ago a number of u.s. senators are opposed to amending the 1988 video privacy protection act to let netflix automatically publish user views on facebook via frictionless sharing. sen. patrick leahy of vermont, who sponsored the vppa, said in a hearing on ... tech the future of food: 11 unique urban farming projects written by zachary sniderman about 8 years ago the global innovation series is supported by bmw i, a new concept dedicated to providing mobility solutions for the urban environment. it delivers more than purpose-built electric vehicles -- it delivers smart mobility services. visit bmw-i.com or fo... entertainment conan adds keyboard cat to obama's google+ hangout [video] written by brian anthony hernandez about 8 years ago each day, mashable highlights one noteworthy youtube video. check out all our viral video picks. cute alert: u.s. president barack obama has met internet celebrity keyboard cat in a google+ hangout. we wish this adorable encounter were true, but it's... entertainment firefox 10 is here. is it worth your time? written by christina warren about 8 years ago it's version 10. do you know where your firefox is? yes, rev up your update engines. firefox 10 -- the latest in a dizzying series of upgrades -- is now available for your browsing pleasure. this is mozilla's seventh major browser release in the last... entertainment giants players to host google+ hangouts on thursday written by sam laird about 8 years ago want to help the new york giants get pumped up for super bowl xlvi and learn more about their pregame preparations? you can do that on thursday evening as the team is hosting a set of google+ hangouts with players including star wide receiver victor ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 39 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.