we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for may 2008 entertainment get to know your facebook app users, with refresh analytics written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago refresh partners, a company that provides end-to-end marketing solutions for facebook, bebo and myspace applications, is launching refresh analytics. this new segment of the refresh brand actually provides developers and app owners analytic and demog... entertainment online music giants to pay up to $100m in royalties written by stan schroeder almost 12 years ago new york federal judge william conner established, in a recent ruling, a loose formula that determines the royalties yahoo inc., aol and realnetworks will have to pay to music composers, writers and publishers, and it might add up to 100 million doll... entertainment ebay vs. craigslist, round one: ebay's version written by stan schroeder almost 12 years ago after last week's news of ebay suing craigslist, a company in whose ownership it has an important stake, ebay has decided to let the world know why exactly they're suing, and published a copy of its complaint. this is ebay's version of the story, so ... entertainment google now lets you place ads on tv written by stan schroeder almost 12 years ago google adwords has just made a major announcement: they are launching google tv ads, an all-digital system that lets you place your ads into tv program. the service has been available as a trial program for over a year now, and now google has opened ... entertainment itunes movie downloads now to follow dvd release schedule written by paul glazowski almost 12 years ago for a good amount of time prior to the debut of itunes movie rentals, a service first announced at this year’s macworld expo, apple optioned purchase-to-own digital film downloads. but in its earliest stage, the store’s movie annex retained mostly da... entertainment microsoft directors looking ever more uncertain about yahoo bid written by paul glazowski almost 12 years ago you know, there has been lots of analysis over the chatter coming out of redmond concerning its supposed strategy to secure the keys to yahoo. even i have been guilty of regularly scrutinizing the actions of both microsoft and yahoo surrounding the o... entertainment yahoo buzz introduces widgets and rss feeds to take on digg written by paul glazowski almost 12 years ago yahoo buzz, a more elementary competitor to digg and other vote-based link aggregation and promotion engines of similar ilk, has showed be quite popular in the months following its february debut. though yahoo has been criticized for failing to provi... entertainment today is rss awareness day. what are you doing to spread the gospel? written by adam ostrow almost 12 years ago i’ve been hearing that may 1st was rss awareness day for a few weeks, although i hadn’t really been able to pin down many details. however, since dave winer - the godfather of rss himself - has posted about it, i figured it would be okay to spread th... entertainment streamzy: a new window into music search [the startup review] written by paul glazowski almost 12 years ago editor’s note: if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion in “the startup review” series, please see the details here. startup details: company name: streamzy 20-word description: streamzy is a media search engine (just music for... entertainment financial q&a service tickerhound launches written by paul glazowski almost 12 years ago there are lots of places to learn the ropes of finance and the world markets. yahoo finance is often said to be the most trafficked of all web-based destinations. then there’s the motley fool. the street is another. cnbc and fox business deliver visu... entertainment oodle names microsoft ex as new senior vp written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago online classifieds service oodle has named kevin doerr its new senior vice president, to lead the company's partner network and grow advertising revenue all the same. a microsoft veteran, doerr worked in microsoft's premium mobile services group, win... entertainment digsby first to support facebook chat written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago new(ish) chat tool digsby is probably amongst the most curious of the recent entrants to the market, because of its all inclusive approach to communication--not just chat. it supports all the major chat services, and also pulls in your email messages... entertainment call for video submissions for enterprise 2.0 launchpad - deadline is tomorrow! written by tamar weinberg almost 12 years ago if you're gearing up to launch a new company, enterprise 2.0 conference launch pad is the perfect place to do it. as a participant in this program, you'll have a chance to receive feedback from the largest audience in the enterprise 2.0 community, an... entertainment mashable's exhibit hall for internet week ny - call for sponsors written by adam hirsch almost 12 years ago in conjunction with internet week new york (june 3 - 10th), mashable is hosting an exhibitors hall at touch on friday, june 6th from 6-10pm. the event is open and free to the public, and it will be the only exhibitor's hall throughout internet week n... entertainment myspace apps: not so democratic after all as success goes on sale written by adam ostrow almost 12 years ago remember that warm, fuzzy feeling you got inside when myspace announced their developer platform and i wrote that it would “level the playing field” for application builders? maybe not, but in any event, whatever hopes there were that myspace’s platf... entertainment when did facebook get more spammy than myspace? written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago when facebook opened up its platform last year, a lot of developers were happy, the media hailed it as one of the smartest moves in social media, and the backlash from users was minimal, at least when compared to the onslaught of nasty comments faceb... entertainment bizak: what's your web 2.0 startup worth? written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago bizak is a new analytics tool that's hoping to bring in some practical features to its approach towards startups. with bizak, you can calculate how well your business will do based on its existing status, along with the comps of other businesses in t... entertainment go green on may 12 for sf green written by tamar weinberg almost 12 years ago sf green is a networking event that brings together the bay area greentech community to see demos from the hottest green companies, including tesla motors and smartcar - who will be bringing prototypes to display! get 15% off by registering with at t... entertainment forbes loves itself with lingospot written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago there are a number of resource sites that are better taking advantage of the instant-gratification tools for the acquisition of knowledge that the web presents us, and forbes is the latest to enhance its online content for this purpose. now, all of f... entertainment rumor: talkshoe seeking $5 million written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins almost 12 years ago talkshoe may be seeking some venture capital, according to a source mg seigler found over at venturebeat today. according to the source, they're looking for about $5 million from third security in vc. as mg mentioned, this is looking to be a cap off ... entertainment current.com shows us a day in the life of pete cashmore written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins almost 12 years ago current.com, the cable channel and embedded video site that allows the viewers to pick the news pieces, recently did a short documentary showing a day in the life of our fearless leader, pete cashmore. i just got an update from the folks over at curr... entertainment blogger.com (finally) finishes future posting written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins almost 12 years ago paul talked about it back in february, but it's finally here. the feature that users of moveable type and wordpress have been enjoying for a quite a while now, future posting, is now available to all users on blogger's platform for standalone sites a... entertainment blinkx celebrates international star wars day written by sean p. aune almost 12 years ago blinkx, the popular video search site we've covered several times before has decided to embrace their inner star wars geek with a special page dedicated to the film series. may 4th, 2008 has been declared "international star wars day" (fourth... forc... entertainment igliss takes the work out of media sharing written by sean p. aune almost 12 years ago ever felt like there were too many steps to sharing your media online with your friends? wished you could share all your favorite items such as videos, pictures, blog posts and more in one convenient place? then igliss may be just what you've been lo... entertainment digg goes with dataportability written by sean p. aune almost 12 years ago according to the digg blog, it looks like digg has decided to join with the dataportability camp. enhancements that have been put in to place, but are invisible to the naked eye include the xfn open standard which will make it easier for other sites ... entertainment epic fail? take two. dorble rises from gimado's ashes. written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago if you head to a new site called dorble, you may notice its resemblance to another site, gimado, that launched a couple of months ago. that's because it's created by the same person that gave us gimado. there's a long and winded story behind the reas... entertainment bintube: the best thing since napster? written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins almost 12 years ago remember usenet? i do. it was one of my first forays into the internet. according to google's archive my first post (at least my first post under my own name, as opposed to my middle school and high school teacher's account) was back in 1995. it was ... entertainment will aggregation ever go mainstream? written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins almost 12 years ago louis gray has an interesting post on what makes friendfeed so addictive for those of us in the early adopter set. there are quite a few folks that are trying to make a go of it in the lifestreaming and aggregation set. as louis said: plaxo did it. p... entertainment head to head: document sharing sites written by palin ningthoujam almost 12 years ago from cms to online word processors, there is no dearth of services and tools to help you put your documents online. the latest fad seems to be the online document sharing sites where you can upload and share your documents in their original formats. ... entertainment bountii upgrades broaden price comparison shopping written by kristen nicole almost 12 years ago bountii is a price comparison search engine that launched late last year, along with some funding from y combinator. as far as price comparison search engines go, bountii not only restricts the number of retailers it crawls, but then digs deeper into... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 20 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.