home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog events product reviews prevnext arch london hotel easter family fun package stay leyla preston wed 15th may 2019 3shares share tweet pin my family love embarking upon new adventures, especially when it involves travel and a luxury place to stay, even if for just one night. back in 2017, we enjoyed a lovely family fun package stay at the arch london hotel in marble arch, and the kids loved it so much that we secured another stay at the arch london, this time with an easter twist. the arch london kindly offered us the chance to review their easter family fun package over the easter weekend (20/21st april) and stay in the newly refurbished juniper suite. we also got to enjoy an in-room easter egg hunt, delicious 3-course meal at the hotel’s hunter 486 restaurant, after dinner milk and cookies and complimentary breakfast the next morning. it was a fantastic stay, which we won’t forget in a hurry. stay tuned for our extensive review of the easter family fun package at the arch london, which includes a sudden unforeseen event which the hotel dealt with promptly! table of contents the arch london our stay at the juniper suite for some easter family fun in-room easter egg hunt hunter 486 restaurant dining the martini library milk and cookies complimentary breakfast other fun parts of the arch london the study whitehall the gym the arch london the arch london is a luxurious georgian townhouse based in the heart of central london, marble arch. the hotel is hidden away on a quaint residential street in marylebone and is footsteps away from bond street, hyde park and the west end, spanning seven grade ii listed georgian townhouses and two mews homes. as soon as you enter the reception area, you are greeted with an open fireplace, and the interior is lined with marble and glass, which is decorated in british heritage art. black and white ‘alphatecture’ prints extend over the entire length of the wall leading towards the martini library. the arch london boasts 82 bedrooms, which includes eleven suites spread across six floors, adequately numbered as 1, 2, 3 and 5 (4 is considered unlucky in asian cultures). interconnecting rooms are on offer for families or larger groups if required. our stay at the juniper suite for some easter family fun we heard that the arch london had put together a fun family-getaway during easter, which offered surprises and treats for the whole family. we were kindly offered the chance to review the easter family fun package to check out their range of child-friendly amenities. you can view a quick recap of our fun stay at the arch london below: the easter family fun package included an in-room egg hunt, evening milk and cookies, and entertainment at the kids’ zone where children could enjoy a vast selection of toys and meet other supervised children. unfortunately, the weekend we were there, the kids’ zone suffered some technical glitches, so we couldn’t review the fun. however, the kids did get to enjoy fun amenities like child-sized bathrobes and slippers, a lovely three-course meal at the hotel’s restaurant, hunter 486, evening milk and cookies, and a complimentary breakfast before we set off home. the newly refurbed juniper suite at the dog-friendly hotel offered a selection of complimentary treats, including soft drinks, water and juice from the mini bar, as well as jing teas, a nespresso coffee machine, malin + goetz toiletries, wifi and daily changing exotic flavoured drinks in the lobby. as with all other guestrooms, the room was uniquely decorated with the hotel’s signature hand-painted bespoke wallpaper that featured grandeur furnishings and duck down duvets and pillows. we also had the choice of a selection of classic novels which can be found in all the suites, the full sky hd tv package, dvd player and internet radio with over 19,000 channels, which cater for international guests. the bathroom featured heated anti-steam mirrors and a flat-screen tv, built into the wall above the bath. the hotel’s eleven suites offer a complete boutique experience, and our home for the night provided us with a private outdoor terrace, a four-poster bed, and a couch which pulled out into a bed. this was where the kids were going to sleep. statement art and dramatic décor decorate the space inside and outside the room. the digital ‘maid service’ and ‘do not disturb’ signs bring the arch london up to modern times, but you can still enjoy the classic sign over the door, which is what i ended up doing anyway. in-room easter egg hunt after parking our car in the hotel’s car park (£40 for an overnight stay), venturing downstairs to the basement area and onwards to the juniper suite, we were given a quick tour of the room by the lovely duty manager, alex. the boys were also greeted with a welcome card and archie the dog, as well as instructions on how to begin the in-room easter egg hunt. meanwhile, i enjoyed a lovely decaf tea and sat down to watch the boys rummage the room for easter eggs. while the boys got stuck in, attempting to find all the easter eggs, hubby and i made a plan of action to utilise our time in london. however, as soon as we had settled on taking the kids to the museum, our eldest suffered a nasty fall and one of the very heavy tables situated outside in the terraced area fell onto his little toe. so, alex booked us a cab and we ended up at st mary’s hospital until dinner time… hunter 486 restaurant dining the hunter 486 restaurant is named after the 1950s dialling code for marylebone and offers a ‘best of british’ menu which is carefully developed by the head chef gary durrant. hunter 486 has an impressive array of wine and champagne with 27 available by the glass. the restaurant has an air of london glamour fused with contemporary furnishings, while the restaurant’s leather booths and blown glass interiors create the perfect ambience for cosy pre-drinks/dinner before you go about the town or retire to your suite for some r&r. the kitchen is open plan so guests can see the chefs at work, as well as their kitchen utensils, including copper pots and pans which are suspended from the ceiling. large windows let in bright light, allowing guests to spy the lovely neighbourhood during the day. towards the evening, the restaurant is transformed to a more intimate setting, with the bar area offering original designer chairs by tom dixon. the boys decided to opt for a round table in the corner of the restaurant which was sectioned off by a sheer piece of material that offered privacy and an intimate family dinner setting. to start off, hubby went for beer while i ordered a mojito mocktail and the boys opted for apple juice. we were also provided some very delicious homemade bread; rye bread and olive bread, and i could not get enough of them – very moreish and tasty! i ended up eating the boys’ helpings too! for starters, i went for chargrilled spring vegetables, romesco, burratta and salsa verde, while hubby opted for the green and white asparagus, parmesan crusted poached egg, tomato and herb dressing. the boys went straight for their margherita pizzas, which is what they chose last time, and my youngest was so hungry that he also opted for chicken strippers and chips too! hubby chose the dedham vale 28-day aged rib eye steak with french fries and bearnaise sauce, while i opted for a lighter meal, sun blushed tomato polenta fritters, guacamole, olive tapenade, and crispy shallots. we also ordered some sweet honey roasted root vegetables on the side to share. we were quietly full but as we’re not a family to turn away dessert, we all decided had enough room in our tummies to give the sweet section a try. the boys went for the same dessert they tried last time, a large ice cream sundae, while hubby went for the yorkshire rhubarb and apple crumble, with baked custard. i opted for the pineapple carpaccio, exotic fruit coulis, with passionfruit and banana sorbet. my dessert was so light and refreshing that i didn’t feel too stuffed after my three-course meal. hubby, on the other hand, felt quite uncomfortable. i claimed it was because i had stuck to a mostly vegan meal, but hubby wouldn’t be hubby if he didn’t opt for meat and dairy! after our 3-course meal, the lovely waitress, isabella, brought us some delicious after-dinner chocolates to finish off the lovely dining experience at hunter 486. the boys were very grateful for the after-dinner chocolates that they decided to draw isabella and her daughter maya a picture of their favourite pokémon characters before we headed over to the library room to check out some vintage books. the martini library feeling very full and ready for bed, we quickly headed over to the martini library room to enjoy our milk and cookies. however, the boys had decided they’d rather enjoy their milk and cookies in their room, so we didn’t stay long. generally, guests can enjoy the lounge area of the hotel to sip their martinis or partake in afternoon tea. the ‘press to refresh’ service buttons, super comfortable armchairs, and shelves filled with handpicked tasche & daunt books, makes this space a truly decadent and comfortable post-dinner relaxation area, where you can just enjoy a good book or host a private party if desired. milk and cookies i was expecting for there to be just a couple of cookies for the boys, as they had enjoyed quite their fill of sugar during the day. however, when the milk and cookies arrived, there were 10 delicious chocolate cookies, dusted lightly with icing sugar and hubby and i were lucky enough to enjoy just a couple of them, while the boys were busy sipping into their frothy milk. the chocolate cookies were delicious but i had reached my fill of sugar for the day, and so i left the rest to the boys. i wondered how long it would take before they experienced the dreaded sugar crash. at least they would sleep for a change! after the milk and cookies, everyone ended up in a food coma, and the boys watched a bit of tv while i sat down in a comfortable red armchair in the corner of the room with a camomile tea and a classic book. i was too tired, however, to get past the first page, and so i sipped my tea in peace. the boys had a bath and then we all called it a day. complimentary breakfast the next morning, i woke up fresh from a lovely night’s sleep in a very comfortable bed and headed for a lovely waterfall shower before breakfast arrived at 9 am. just in time, the food came and the boys woke up to the smell of freshly baked pastries and deliciously sweet fruit from their continental breakfast order. on came the tv again! meanwhile hubby and i enjoyed a full english with orange juice, decaf tea for me and a nice cup of coffee for hubby. we also tucked into some sweet pastries and felt nicely full, ready to enjoy the beautiful sunny day ahead. other fun parts of the arch london the study the study is a great place for ideal informal business meetings as the arch london offers hotel guests complimentary computer and printing facilities should they need to print information. the concierge is always on hand to help with these services and more. whitehall we frequented whitehall briefly, and the room had a very relaxed and minimalistic feel to it. whitehall is adorned with elegant armchairs and sofas lining the walls, as well as state-of-the-art teleconference technology and concealed lighting to illuminate the space for business meetings with a less corporate vibe. the gym the hotel offers a gymnasium on the lower ground floor for guests to use, with fitness equipment including a powerplate machine and multi-functional kinesis station. after checking out, alex had kindly filled our car with some water bottles, and we headed over to hyde park to walk off our breakfast and enjoy the lovely sunny day ahead. we had such a great time living like vip together as a family, and the arch london made us all feel very much at home for the day/night. if you are thinking of doing something different with the family for a change, i wouldn’t hesitate to recommend the arch london for a lovely relaxing stay with the whole family. the stay offered us parents some respite against our hectic schedule and the opportunity to take some time out with our boys to enjoy life with them for a change. prices for the family fun package start from £560, £320 for a deluxe room and £480 for a suite. for reservations, call 020 7724 4700 or visit www.thearchlondon.com *the arch london hotel offered us a complimentary one-night easter family fun package stay during 20th/21st april, but all opinions are 100% our own* * photos by preston perfect photography* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:arch london hotelfamily timehotelhunter 486 restaurant related posts royal lancaster london hotel review our family fun package stay at the arch ... 5 exciting days in for rainy days with t... is using a domestic cleaning service wor... tips for travelling with children about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 3shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok