we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for november 2011 entertainment contently provides an open marketplace for writers and publishers to connect written by veena bissram over 8 years ago the spark of genius series highlights a unique feature of startups and is made possible by microsoft bizspark. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. name: contently quick pitch: contently is an ... entertainment 20 dramatic divorce tweets from kim kardashian's sisters and haters written by brian anthony hernandez over 8 years ago kim kardashian's short-lived marriage -- just 72 days with nba player kris humphries before divorce papers emerged -- has landed her two worldwide trending topics on twitter: #thingslongerthankimsmarriage and #kimkmarriagewasshorter. ryan seacrest, p... entertainment how much money will consumers spend this holiday season? [infographic] written by zoe fox over 8 years ago we all know consumers spend more during the holiday season than any other time during the year. but did you know 38% of people have already begun their yearly shopping extravaganzas? online shopping now beats out shopping in stores (for the social me... entertainment dress your ipad 2 in dinosaur bones and diamonds for $8 million written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago we've seen many expensive gadget makeovers, but this one probably takes the cake for being over the top: an ipad 2 dressed in gold, diamonds and bones of a 65-million-year-old tyrannosaurus rex. stuart hughes's ipad 2 gold history edition, as this ul... entertainment pearson and knewton team up to make learning personal written by sarah kessler over 8 years ago one of the largest textbook publishers in the world is making its digital course offerings more data-driven and individualized. pearson announced tuesday an extensive partnership with knewton, a startup that specializes in adaptive learning technolog... entertainment today's top stories in tech, mobile and social media written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. we’re keeping our eyes on four particular stories of interest today. barnes & noble to unveil nook color 2 nov. ... entertainment native gmail iphone app is coming soon [rumor] written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago google is working on a native gmail application for the iphone and may even have already submitted the app to apple for approval, according to one report. currently, gmail is supported on the iphone as a web app. it does its job fairly well, but a na... entertainment how old spice revived a campaign that no one wanted to touch written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago the modern media agency series is supported by idg. ad agency jwt has used mobile marketing for two brand name clients. during a marketers’ panel discussion, john baker explained the important role mobile played in a promotion for zyrtec and for a ca... entertainment apple itv: not so fast written by lance ulanoff over 8 years ago an apple itv is coming. or is it? i mean, isn’t apple too smart to get into the tv business? with no new apple iphone on the near horizon and not enough ipad 3 non-information to chew over, the media has turned its attention to yet another non-existe... entertainment google promises consumers greater ad transparency written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago google is making changes to its ad system in an effort to provide consumers with "greater transparency and choice." over the coming weeks, users will be able to click on links labeled "why these ads?" next to advertisements served in gmail and google... entertainment the eatery uses photos of your food and a dash of peer pressure to improve your health [pics] written by ben parr over 8 years ago stealth health startup massive health has launched the eatery, an experimental iphone app that takes a different approach to improving your health by tracking what you eat. unlike other health apps, the eatery doesn't watch how many calories you're e... entertainment tiny rihanna sings in nivea augmented reality app [video] written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago no, the woman in this video is not hallucinating. thanks to augmented reality technology, a tiny version of rihanna actually seems to emerge from the cap of a jar of nivea creme to sing her song "california king bed." the app, which went live this we... entertainment the 7 deadly sins of social good -- and how to avoid them written by zachary sniderman over 8 years ago the commerce with a conscience series is supported by fedex. fedex does more than shipping. they offer solutions like transporting heart valves to those in need and helping entrepreneurs bring their ideas to life. see how. we've all been there -- you... entertainment yahoo buys interclick for $270 million written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago yahoo has purchased data-driven ad firm interclick for $270 million. interclick, a 4-year-old company that analyzes and identifies the most responsive audiences for marketing using digital media, will help yahoo better value remnant ad space. typical... entertainment former engadget editor launches new tech site written by stan schroeder over 8 years ago the verge, a new technology site with former engadget editor joshua topolsky at its helm, has officially launched. topolsky left aol-owned engadget early this year, around the same time aol announced 900 layoffs in restructuring related to its acquis... entertainment amazon cloud player iphone app disappears from itunes store written by christina warren over 8 years ago update: we've heard from the developer who tells us the app was pulled at the request of amazon, not apple. we're following up on this story and will update with additional information. an iphone app that allows users to access amazon cloud player ha... entertainment how to maximize your home office tax deductions written by nellie akalp over 8 years ago nellie akalp is ceo of corpnet.com. since forming more than 100,000 corporations and llcs across the u.s., she has built a strong passion to assist small business owners and entrepreneurs in starting and protecting their business the right way. to le... entertainment google gomo helps businesses go mobile written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago acknowledging that having a mobile presence is trickier than it appears, google launched an initiative called "gomo" tuesday that aims to help businesses work out the kinks involved in going mobile. as jesse haines, group marketing manager for google... entertainment behind the tweets: new twitter site reveals users' stories written by lauren indvik over 8 years ago twitter unveiled a collection of twitter stories monday designed to remind users "of the humanity behind tweets that make the world smaller." there are currently just under 20 short vignettes gathered at stories.twitter.com. and these vignettes are i... entertainment 9 tips for raising startup funds on angellist written by joshua baer over 8 years ago joshua baer is the co-founder and ceo of otherinbox, a prolific angel investor and the director of capital factory, austin’s seed-stage incubator. he founded skylist in 1996 from his college dorm room at carnegie mellon, and created unsubcentral in 2... entertainment gmail changes again: google rolls out new look written by chris taylor over 8 years ago the new-look gmail that google accidentally told us about last week is now rolling out to all users. the changes, officially announced in a blog post tuesday, allow gmail users much more control over the look of the service. you can drag sidebars aro... entertainment why amazon had cloud music app pulled from the app store written by christina warren over 8 years ago it turns out apple wasn't responsible for the disappearance of the amazon cloud player app amusic from the app store. the app was removed at amazon's request. when the app, an unofficial ios client for amazon's cloud player service, disappeared from ... entertainment robot invasion: toyota unveils four healthcare "assistants" [pics] written by sarah kessler over 8 years ago toyota unveiled four robots designed to accomplish ambitious objectives at a tokyo event tuesday: help paralyzed patients walk or balance and help their caretakers gently transport them between locations. the company hopes to commercialize the produc... entertainment thanks to mashable's supporting event partners written by jennifer diamond over 8 years ago thanks to our partners who have contributed to the success of the mashable media summit! we're always interested in collaborating with organizations on events, so contact us for more information about partnerships or sponsorship opportunities. new yo... entertainment miami heat owner fined $500,000 for tweets written by todd wasserman over 8 years ago miami heat owner micky arison has been fined $500,000 for venting on twitter about the nba lockout. the fine -- believed to be the largest ever levied against an owner by the nba -- came after arison responded to a fan's tweet. that original message ... entertainment 20 tv shows with the most social media buzz this week [chart] written by stephanie buck over 8 years ago it's no secret that americans enjoy using social media while they watch tv. but which shows are accumulating the most social buzz this season? we thought it time to break down the stats in a new weekly chart. the best part? these charts dish the dirt... entertainment social thievery: will your tweets get you robbed? [infographic] written by zachary sniderman over 8 years ago social networks are an information gateway that allow people to share and connect in ways that were never previously possible. they can also be a pretty clever way to rob your neighbors. burglars are starting to realize the criminal possibilities of ... entertainment iphone 4s makes its debut in hong kong & 14 countries nov. 11 written by ben parr over 8 years ago apple has announced that the iphone 4s will make its debut in hong kong and 14 other countries on nov. 11. in addition to hong kong, the new iphone will make its debut on the same day in albania, armenia, bulgaria, el salvador, greece, guatemala, mal... entertainment power your macbook, ipad and iphone with one charger [video] written by christina warren over 8 years ago each day, mashable highlights one noteworthy youtube video. check out all our viral video picks. the gang at twelve south, the company responsible for iphone cases like the bookbook and stands for the ipad and macbook pro, has just unveiled their new... entertainment garageband makes its way to the iphone written by christina warren over 8 years ago apple has updated its garageband for ios app to support the iphone and ipod touch. apple released garageband for ipad back in march, coinciding with the launch of the ipad 2. garageband for ios 1.1 adds support for smaller devices as well as a few ne... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 32 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.