we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for march 2013 culture baby elephant playing in the mud redefines cute written by neha prakash about 7 years ago baby elephant navann here is just having the time of his life. no cares, no worries, he's just a little kid and wants to play in some mud. the energetic pachyderm does more slipping and sliding than actual standing in those mud baths but seems to be ... entertainment where was the orchestra during the oscars? not where you think written by brian anthony hernandez about 7 years ago the jaws theme song reminded oscar winners on sunday to hurry up and end their acceptance speeches during the 85th academy awards broadcast on sunday. the orchestra played the ominous music as a forthright cue that inspired significant -- and hilario... culture watch lebron james and the miami heat do the 'harlem shake' written by sam laird about 7 years ago just when you thought it was dead, the "harlem shake" meme rides again! lebron james and his miami heat have made their own rendition, and it's quite solid. tech humongous 320-gigapixel photo shatters record written by discovery news about 7 years ago a 360-degree panoramic photo of london comes in at a record 320-gigapixel resolution. world girlfriend leads man around the world in breathtaking pics written by eric larson about 7 years ago flip through this amazing collection of photos -- under the theme "follow me" -- by instagram user murad osmann. entertainment shocking new adidas basketball uniforms invite mockery online written by sam laird about 7 years ago an unveiling of some, uh, creative new adidas basketball uniforms thursday was widely -- and hilariously -- panned by the online peanut gallery. culture the evolution of a coffee addict written by matt petronzio about 7 years ago it started with one cup when you were 17 years old. you probably didn't like the bitter taste, but you just needed a boost to finish that sociology paper before your 8 a.m. class. nowadays, you finish your second cup of coffee before even stepping fo... entertainment take a look at facebook's redesigned timeline written by emily price about 7 years ago facebook is testing a new timeline design. currently live in new zealand, the new look brings a slimmed down toolbar to the top of profile pages and repositions other content. first spotted by the next web, we had a friend in new zealand grab some sc... business venture capitalist tip: shake up traditional markets written by brian solis about 7 years ago the behind-the-scenes impact of uber on the taxi industry and airbnb on the hospitality trade are just two ways startups have innovated stagnant markets. culture like, you will: star wars nesting dolls written by neha prakash about 7 years ago j.j. abrams might have been tasked with bringing the star wars characters back to life on the silver screen, but artist andy stattmiller is trying to shrink the whole franchise. stattmiller has created an entire set of nesting dolls replicating the g... business online gaming giant to buy atlantic city casino written by the daily dot about 7 years ago after being drummed out of the u.s. two years ago, the parent company of several of the internet's biggest online gaming sites is looking to reestablish itself with a brick-and-mortar toehold on the jersey shore. even before new jersey gov. chris chr... tech portable bluetooth speaker lets you listen to emojis written by camille bautista about 7 years ago sometimes a smiley just isn't enough. if you've ever wanted to send a sound to express anger or delight -- or you just love cat noises -- the creators of telesound have got you covered. telesound, a portable sound messenger, allows people to send mor... tech a password you wear on your wrist written by mit technology review about 7 years ago mobile security startup passban offers smartphone owners a slew of authentication options—including one you can wear. entertainment tablets vs. tv: which screen time is better for your kids? written by jeana lee tahnk about 7 years ago jeana lee tahnk is a high-tech pr consultant and writer who focuses on technology and parenting. she pens the screen play technology blog for parenting magazine and also writes for cool mom tech and more. if your kid asked if he could watch tv or pla... business nars tests pinterest's selling potential written by lauren indvik about 7 years ago nars, whose last social media campaign managed to generate not-insignificant interest in a new cosmetics collection without giving away free product, is hoping to do the same with its next campaign -- this time, on pinterest instead of facebook. nars... culture bad ideas for dieting effectively written by matt petronzio about 7 years ago eating healthy is a difficult task. these hilarious comics from toothpaste for dinner show us the wrong ways to diet. business why i dropped the work-from-home policy long before yahoo written by nellie akalp about 7 years ago nellie akalp is a passionate entrepreneur, small business advocate and mother of four. as ceo of corpnet.com, a legal document filing service, nellie helps entrepreneurs start a business, incorporate, form an llc or set up sole proprietorships (dbas)... tech 18 major tech contributions from entrepreneurial women written by zoe fox about 7 years ago despite making up more than half of u.s. degree earners and roughly half of the u.s. workforce, women comprise less than one-quarter of stem (science technology engineering and mathematics) professionals. according to the u.s. department of commerce,... u.s. fcc to investigate legal ban on unlocking cellphones written by alex fitzpatrick about 7 years ago the federal communications commission will investigate a recent legal ban on unlocking cellphones, fcc chairman julius genachowski said in a recent interview. the "ban raises competition concerns; it raises innovation concerns," genachowski told tech... world spacex to launch rocket friday: watch online written by space.com about 7 years ago the private spaceflight company spacex is counting down to launch an unmanned space capsule to the international space station today, and you can watch the blastoff live online with two official webcasts. spacex is on track to launch a falcon 9 rocke... business mason out at groupon and more news you need to know written by emily banks about 7 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of "first to know," a series in which we keep you in the know on what's happening in the digital world. here are the top stories today. groupon ousted founder and ceo andrew mason thursday afternoon, following a disa... entertainment one-man electro band to perform at mashbash during sxswi written by jennifer diamond about 7 years ago gifted dance music master robert delong will perform at mashable's sxswi party on sunday, march 10 at speakeasy in austin, texas. recently featured on mashable and voted one of mtv's artists to watch, delong is making a splash in the digital world an... business why groupon ousted its ceo written by todd wasserman about 7 years ago groupon's fourth quarter earnings appear to have been the last straw for ceo andrew mason, who was ousted from his post on thursday. mason's dismissal came the morning after the company reported its results, so there's an obvious causation. but how b... entertainment conan o'brien introduces the 'most truthful ipad ad ever' written by todd wasserman about 7 years ago there are tens of millions of ipads in circulation. but what are people using them for? conan o'brien didn't pull any punches with this parody ad for apple's tablet. the joke: apple has released a "more honest" ad that shows what users actually do wi... tech peter gabriel, vint cerf launch 'internet for animals' written by chris taylor about 7 years ago calling all digital dr. doolittles: it's time to start talking with the animals online. a consortium of great brains and famous names launched what it's calling the "interspecies internet" at the ted conference in long beach thursday night. their goa... business toasting success with skillshare's co-founder written by dani fankhauser about 7 years ago congratulations come in all shapes and sizes. for college graduation or a wedding you receive cards from friends and family, when your city's professional sports team wins finals you might have a parade. but professional success celebrations require ... world miss the spacex rocket launch? see it in photos written by amanda wills about 7 years ago private spaceflight company spacex launched a falcon 9 rocket today from the cape canaveral air force. see it in photos here. world vatican celebrates pope benedict xvi with comic sans photo album written by alex fitzpatrick about 7 years ago shortly after pope benedict xvi took the almost-unprecedented step of retiring from the papacy and became "pope emeritus," the vatican posted a 60-page photo album -- that's entirely in comic sans. the album is chock full of papal photos from vatican... entertainment 'do the harlem shake' on youtube for a surprise written by chris taylor about 7 years ago the harlem shake phenomenon, despite many attempts to stop it in its tracks or to point out that it has nothing to do with the original dance, is still going strong on youtube. workplaces and dorm rooms around the world are still uploading thousands ... world updated: spacex confirms problems with dragon written by amanda wills about 7 years ago spacex successfully launched its falcon 9 rocket, but its dragon capsule suffered a glitch that will delay its rendezvous with the international space station. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 53 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.