we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for october 2010 entertainment influence versus popularity on twitter: kim kardashian case study written by jolie o'dell over 9 years ago kim kardashian isn't the most popular celeb on twitter. she's a couple million followers behind the heavy-hitters of internet-savvy entertainers; however, she's accomplished something no other individual celebrity has done: she's the celeb who gets t... entertainment why zuckerberg should like the facebook movie written by pete cashmore over 9 years ago the social network, the movie dramatization of the founding of facebook, comes to u.s. theaters on friday. facebook ceo mark zuckerberg reportedly opposed the making of the film, which charts his rise to become the world's youngest self-made billiona... entertainment street view now available on all seven continents written by stan schroeder over 9 years ago since its launch in may 2007, google has gradually been expanding its street view service, starting with major u.s. cities, and then moving on to other countries all around the globe. now, street view comes to brazil, ireland and even as far as antar... business how liaise is building a better priority inbox for the enterprise written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago this post is made possible by microsoft bizspark as a new part of the spark of genius series that focuses on a new and innovative startup each day. every thursday, the program focuses on startups within the bizspark program and what they're doing to ... entertainment samsung to terminate support for symbian written by stan schroeder over 9 years ago samsung has informed developers it will discontinue its symbian support service beginning december 31 2010. the news comes just days after sony ericsson announced its intention to cease symbian support. the announcement means that the symbian foundat... entertainment top 3 stories in social media and tech this morning written by lauren indvik over 9 years ago welcome to this morning’s edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. we’re keeping our eyes on three particular stories of interest today. high-resolution photos come to facebook fa... entertainment samsung galaxy tab hits the uk on november 1 written by stan schroeder over 9 years ago samsung's android-based tablet, the galaxy tab, will be available in uk stores on november 1. the galaxy tab is a 7-inch tablet, sporting a tft-lcd display with 1024×600 pixel resolution, a 3-megapixel camera and an additional front 1.3-megapixel cam... entertainment 10 incredible inventions from the world maker faire [pics] written by sarah kessler over 9 years ago the world maker faire was an impossible density of coolness for anybody with even slightly geeky tendencies. robots, rockets, art cars, electronics and even a giant tesla coil all shared the grounds of the new york hall of science. needless to say, w... entertainment booq boa folio is better than the apple ipad case written by blake robinson over 9 years ago in the market for a simple ipad case? check out the booq boa folio. it's similar in design to the apple ipad case, but made from, you know, quality components. the booq boa folio for ipad comes in an assortment of colors and constructions. at $50 for... entertainment 10 stories beautifully told with animated typography [videos] written by amy-mae elliott over 9 years ago the power of the written word should not be underestimated, and while we are used to coping with more visual data than ever before, sometimes something as simple as text can cut through the white noise and make a big impact. we think moving type, or ... entertainment justin timberlake and aaron sorkin not that into facebook [video] written by brenna ehrlich over 9 years ago last night, the social network star justin timberlake appeared on the daily show, while the movie's screenwriter, aaron sorkin, made a showing on the colbert report. although the two had different roles in what is commonly called "the facebook movie,... entertainment thanks to mashable’s socially savvy supporters written by mashable team over 9 years ago thanks to this week’s advertisers and partners for enabling us to bring you the latest social media news and resources. mashable's sponsors are as social media savvy as our readers! advertise with us and get noticed. mashable is seeking out site spon... entertainment minecraft: how social media spawned a gaming sensation written by matt silverman over 9 years ago if you enjoy interacting with other humans, sleeping more than three hours a night, and bathing from time to time, do not play minecraft. it's one of the most engrossing and addicting computer games to come along in some time. what is minecraft? you ... entertainment foursquare releases merit-based badges for better living written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago as checkins become commonplace, foursquare has changed its location-based game to reward players for actual achievements. runkeeper was the first partner to introduce merit-based foursquare badges, but today another partner has emerged. health month,... entertainment belkin conserve smart av surge protector saves energy automatically written by blake robinson over 9 years ago your household electronics are trying to destroy the environment. chances are, right now, dozens of them are currently guzzling down loads of energy in standby mode. this isn't good, but the belkin conserve smart av is here to help you save the world... entertainment why product reviews can drive group buying success for retailers written by sam decker over 9 years ago sam decker is chief marketing officer of bazaarvoice, the market and technology leader in hosted social commerce applications that drive sales. you can follow him on twitter @samdecker. social networks and social media (facebook, twitter, blogs, etc.... entertainment connected tv: the new battle for your living room [infographic] written by christina warren over 9 years ago after years of false-starts and not-quite-there implementations, it appears that the connected tv revolution is upon us. finally, consumers will have access to affordable technology that will let them access web content and content from their macs or... entertainment amazon and pampers bring diaper shopping to facebook written by christina warren over 9 years ago as individuals spend more and more time on facebook, big brands looking to leverage that time are integrating more features and services into their fan pages. proctor & gamble just launched a new e-commerce tab on its pampers fan page, offering consu... entertainment panasonic lumix phone: start your speculations [open thread] written by blake robinson over 9 years ago panasonic has just officially announced that a lumix phone is on the way. details are set to be released on october 5, giving us the whole weekend to speculate on what this device will be packing. the lumix brand is used by panasonic for its line of ... entertainment google chrome only browser to show measurable growth this year written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago in the battle for your browsing activities, microsoft's internet explorer has remained a dominant force for years despite competition from safari and firefox. data from net applications demonstrates that while there have been no massive changes in ma... entertainment microsoft sues motorola over android written by christina warren over 9 years ago welcome to the latest episode of patent lawsuit theater! in this edition, we find microsoft suing former partner motorola over, what else, patent infringement in the area of smartphones. microsoft filed an action with the international trade commissi... entertainment google acquires touchscreen keyboard startup written by lauren indvik over 9 years ago san francisco-based startup blindtype has just been acquired by google, the former announced. blindtype has developed a technology that removes the need to type with an on-screen keyboard. users can simply start typing anywhere; blindtype will recogn... entertainment facebook staff takes a company field trip to see "the social network" [photo] written by christina warren over 9 years ago it looks like the facebook staff is taking the afternoon off to go see the social network! we've received independent reports that the facebook staff has essentially rented out the century cinemas 16 in mountain view, california, where upwards of 1,2... entertainment web faceoff: yahoo vs. aol written by ben parr over 9 years ago two titans of the web 1.0 era are trying to find their footing in the world of the social web. will yahoo or aol be able to regain their former glory? at the turn of the century, yahoo and aol were the kings of the web. during january 2000, yahoo's s... entertainment our favorite youtube videos this week: the cinema edition written by brenna ehrlich over 9 years ago life is just one big movie in which you're the star and everyone else is merely a player, huh? well aren't you a lil megalomaniac? anyway, if you're down with the drama of the celluloid, then this week's youtube roundup theme should have you reeling ... entertainment warning: facebook "like" worm spreading through javascript exploit written by ben parr over 9 years ago thousands of facebook users are being attacked by a nasty facebook worm that forces them to "like" a facebook page, which then automatically spreads it through their wall. according to socialtoo's jesse stay, the scammers have figured out a way to ex... entertainment the ovi store is growing fast, but nokia still faces an uphill battle written by ben parr over 9 years ago nokia is touting some impressive numbers for ovi and the ovi store today, including surpassing 2.3 million daily application downloads. it faces an uphill battle though in its quest to catch up with apple and google. the ovi store has only been aroun... entertainment moleskine covers ios devices written by blake robinson over 9 years ago if the booq boa folio for ipad didn't get your attention, then take a look at what moleskine has coming. the makers of the iconic notebooks famously used by hemingway are jumping into the ios case fray. moleskine will be releasing both a tablet cover... entertainment new web service solves the what to watch conundrum written by jennifer van grove over 9 years ago this post is part of mashable’s spark of genius series, which highlights a unique feature of startups. the series is made possible by microsoft bizspark.. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. n... entertainment weekend gaming: "dead rising 2" [open thread] written by blake robinson over 9 years ago dead rising was actually the reason i broke down and bought my (first) xbox 360. i played through that game about a dozen times and unlocked almost everything in it before moving on to mass effect. i've since gone through a few xbox 360s, but dead ri... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 25 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.