we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for july 2013 business job hunting? 160+ openings at viacom, cafemom and more written by sarah ang over 6 years ago unemployed, underemployed or somewhere in between? the mashable job board is here to help with your job hunting. since 2005, mashable has been dedicated to providing the hottest digital, social and tech news to our readership of 25 million and counti... tech rip: every product ever axed by google written by chelsea stark over 6 years ago on monday, google will pull the plug on google reader, despite much general online despair about the death of the most popular rss reader. while this is definitely the most popular tool google has put on ice, it's certainly not the first. the company... tech google news adds new features in wake of google reader's death written by geekosystem over 6 years ago google is killing reader tomorrow, and as a sort of consolation prize, they’ve added some new features to google news. there’s now a box that features a four-day forecast of local weather, editor’s picks of stories, and sports scores. this is clearly... culture 13 computer fails from '90s tv written by molly horan over 6 years ago prepare for a cringe-worthy tech flashback. half the fun of watching '90s television shows is laughing at all of the outdated references, from the slang to the unfortunate hair styles. even more amusing than the giant scrunchies and sunflower hats ar... tech go camping like james bond with this crazy tech gear written by max knoblauch over 6 years ago camping and espionage go together like peanut butter and jelly. or -- scratch that -- like peanut butter and something completely unrelated to peanut butter. but with the right tech, you can change that. many people choose camping as a means to escap... entertainment 10 cool and geeky ice cube trays written by amy-mae elliott over 6 years ago ordinary ice cubes are just so ... square. we strongly suggest livening things up by adding some geek chic to your beverage of choice with the addition of nerd-tastic, novelty-shaped, frigid h2o. see also: 15 fun products to geek up your 4th of july ... business groupon pivots further from daily deals with upscale restaurant reservations written by seth fiegerman over 6 years ago groupon will unveil a restaurant reservation feature on monday for upscale places based on its recent acquisition of savored.com. entertainment satirical prism-inspired game lets you 'play god' with personal data written by anita li over 6 years ago what if you had control over millions of internet users' personal data? players of a new game called data dealer can experience that first-hand by running their own "smoogle" and "tracebook," while collecting and selling user data. described on its o... tech report: apple applies for 'iwatch' trademark in japan written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago apple has filed an application for "iwatch" trademark in japan, bloomberg reports citing a june 3 filing with the japan patent office. the name is categorized as being for products such as a handheld computer or a watch. the news comes after a slew o... culture 10 gross food names to squash your appetite written by laura vitto over 6 years ago no matter how delicious a food looks at the grocery store, it's difficult to convince yourself to choose a brand of meat called "barfy" over, say, any other brand. someone needs to inform "barfy" that nothing quells the appetite quite like food names... tech eu slashes roaming prices from july 1, promises even bigger cuts written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago the european union's roaming regulation has lowered the prices for mobile roaming within the eu, effective july 1, 2013. the new price caps are as follows: 24 cents per minute for making a call, 7 cents per minute for receiving a call, 8 cents for se... business do you have what it takes to work from home? written by the daily muse over 6 years ago most of us, at some point, have fantasized about quitting that 9-to-5 office job to work from the comfort of a couch. i certainly did. after all, i was clocking in four hours daily commuting into work (and sometimes, sadly, it was closer to five). al... entertainment sly and arnie join forces in 'escape plan' trailer written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago longing for the days of 80ies action flicks? your thirst will soon be quenched in the form of "escape plan," a prison breakout movie starring none other than sylvester stallone and arnold schwarzenegger. stallone plays ray breslin, a prison security ... u.s. should schools implement social media policies? written by eric larson over 6 years ago does your school have a social media policy? mashable talked to a few high schools about how they monitor students' -- and teachers' -- online presences. business nokia sales jump on siemens equipment buyout announcement written by todd wasserman over 6 years ago nokia announced monday it would buy out siemens' share of nokia siemens networks for $2.2 billion, a move that jacked nokia's stock price up more than 7%. the buyout of siemens' 50% stake in nsn dissolves the joint venture, which was launched in 2007... tech last day for google reader and other news you need to know written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago welcome to this morning's edition of "first to know," a series in which we keep you in the know on what's happening in the digital world. today, we're looking at three particularly interesting stories. monday is the last day for google reader. in a m... business german lingerie ad name-drops edward snowden written by todd wasserman over 6 years ago u.s. informant edward snowden received a mention in an unlike place: a german lingerie ad. the execution, above, is a pretty juvenile play on the word "uncover." if you're looking for clever commentary on prism or the nsa, you'll have to look elsewhe... social good announcing mashable's 2013 social good summit written by casey brown over 6 years ago we're extremely excited to announce the 2013 social good summit, which will take place in new york from sept. 22 to sept. 24. we're thrilled to share several updates that will make the 2013 conversations more global than ever. the year 2013 is all ab... tech mozilla announces first firefox os phones written by stan schroeder over 6 years ago mozilla announced the first two smartphones based on its operating system, firefox os on monday: the zte open and alcatel one touch fire. the two devices will soon be available through telefonica and deutsche telekom. telefonica announced that the zt... entertainment 14 gadgets to keep you safe this summer written by taylor casti over 6 years ago we're happy to see the sun after all those months of the cold darkness we call winter on the east coast, but summer comes with its own set of problems and dangers. we're much more prone to getting overheated, dehydrated and sunburned. so here at mash... tech microsoft developing smartphones to detect your mood written by samantha murphy kelly over 6 years ago microsoft is experimenting with new technology that could turn your smartphone into the equivalent of a mood ring. business what google glass means for workplace policy written by sharlyn lauby over 6 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. by now, most of us know about google glass. it’s a wearable computer with ... world egyptian protestors target helicopters with laser pointers written by alex fitzpatrick over 6 years ago nearly half a million egyptians took to cairo's tahrir square sunday, demanding president mohamed morsi leave office exactly one year after he was elected. as military helicopters flew overhead, demonstrators used laser pointers to paint them in a mu... entertainment justin timberlake, pharrell and snoop dogg perform tribute to charlie wilson written by brian anthony hernandez over 6 years ago charlie wilson, an r&b veteran as a soloist and frontman for the gap band, received a star-studded musical tribute from stevie wonder, indie arie and jamie foxx before accepting his lifetime achievement award during sunday night's bet awards. at the ... entertainment viral video recap: must-watch memes of the week written by sean fitz-gerald over 6 years ago gearing up for a summer vacation? we've got some inspiration for you in this week's viral video recap. to satisfy your travel bug, this week's roundup features a juggler who multi-tasks with a gopro in iceland. it also includes professional golfer ro... entertainment listen to gov. chris christie's summer playlist written by national journal over 6 years ago need some tunes for your july 4th barbecue? new jersey governor and bruce springsteen fanatic chris christie's got you covered. entertainment 11 news subreddits to replace google reader written by max knoblauch over 6 years ago somewhere, a newshound is whimpering. on july 1, google reader headed to a nice rss farm out west, where it will have lots of space to run around and make a ton of new rss friends. at least, that's the story google is sticking to. bad news aside, you... culture 15 a cappella covers of '90s theme songs written by molly horan over 6 years ago what's really missing from shows like the voice and american idol are classic '90s tv show theme songs. luckily, a cappella groups have stepped up to fill that void. see also: 13 computer fails from '90s tv so if you're in need of some nostalgia, don... entertainment tumblr users give disney's latest white princess a makeover written by the daily dot over 6 years ago it doesn’t take a film expert to recognize the conservatism of disney cartoons. it took until 2009 for the first african-american disney protagonist to appear onscreen, and before brave’s merida could be inducted into the disney princess hall of fame... tech the potential behind wearable gadgets written by pete pachal over 6 years ago the idea of using a sensor to track one of your bodily functions (say, your heart rate) used to be the domain of the medical industry or professional athletes. today, it's something anyone can buy at the apple store. walk by the accessories section i... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 54 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.