we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for 2007 entertainment word count journal launches written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago if your new year's resolution is to start blogging, then word count journal wants to help out. the newly-launched blogging platform lets you post one word on the first day, two words on the second day and so on, meaning that you'll have written 66,79... entertainment vidivodo launches, ecirkit, postreach, iloggo, liveleak written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago vidivodo launches - another new video sharing community launched on december 25th. turkey-based vidivodo is a decent attempt that includes tagging, customizable profile pages, an embeddable player and accounts for musicians and comedians. the player,... entertainment tubesnow - because the internet is a series of them written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago tubes is a new social sharing application that just went live today at tubesnow.com - it was originally at this url during development. we're not big fans of downloadable apps, mainly because they clog up the test machines and because users tend to h... entertainment groovr launches impressive mobile social network written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago we said 2007 would be the year of mobile, and it already is - groovr is another new mobile social network that launched on december 29th. like most mobile-specific sites, the django-powered service is based around text messaging: you "check in" to a ... entertainment toolstolife, parkwhiz, disney.com, wishood, letterpop, joopz written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago toolstolife - this new social network for goal setting is trying to get some january 1st buzz. toolstolife users can create profiles, add friends, set goals, track their progress on charts, add photos, write a blog and ask questions. worth it just fo... entertainment placeblogger written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago placeblogger, which launched yesterday, is a blog directory focused on certain places. it's not about news specifically ,the site says, but also about the experience of living in a certain place. you can find "hyperlocal" blogs, add blogs to the dire... entertainment studivz acquired for $112m written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago update: the ft (german) reports that the price is 85 million euros ($112 million), with about 50 million euros being paid in cash. mashable readers will know that studivz, the german facebook clone, has been the source of a great deal of controversy.... entertainment aol video, zedo, browster, disney.com, juicecaster, myspace awards and more written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago those of you who have visited mashable recently will know that the site has been "having a massage" - the stories we would have covered... sell your videos on aol - besides the revenue sharing offered by metacafe, revver, guba and others, you can now... entertainment myspace users slightly more gay than facebook users written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago the makers of the l-word social network will be pleased to hear the results of a poll released on tuesday by harris interactive and witeck-combs communications (not publicly available). the poll shows that gay, lesbian and bisexual people use social ... entertainment saddam execution video - cellphone user arrested written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago the saddam execution video that we linked to last week is causing a great deal of tension - while the official video portrayed a calm and dignified atmosphere before the hanging (it had no audio), the raw cellphone footage painted a very different pi... entertainment "web 2.0" is most popular wikipedia entry of 2006 written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago we promised that we'd never mention that annoying phrase "web 2.0" on mashable again - we lied. adage reports that the ill-defined phrase that tries to sum up the essence of the user-controlled web was the most-cited wikipedia entry of 2006, presumab... entertainment buy your own myspace: shoutcentral for sale on ebay written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago shoutcentral, a clean but sparse social network that we previewed on mashable back in july, is up for sale on ebay today. the site was custom built using php and ajax on a mysql backend, and they're reporting 1000 users so far. shoutcentral users hav... entertainment match activity gets angel funding written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago yoni avital, founder of the los angeles-based dating site match activity, informed us today that the company has received angel funding from the tech coast angels group. tca's mike napoli led the round, while the firm has also added dave nielsen, a f... entertainment two more guba executives leave to start a video site of their own written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago we've said before that 2007 may be a troubled year for those video sharing sites that find themselves competing with youtube. following the departure of guba's co-founder and ceo, thomas mcinerney, last week, another two executives are jumping ship. ... entertainment usuggest - social shopping that pays written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago time to add usuggest to our list of social sites that pay. the service, which launched yesterday, makes it easy (in theory) to earn money from affiliate links. after signing up for an account, you can search the database of 2 million products from mo... entertainment dopa dead, toyota's myspace clone, google reader, endless.com, windows live for tv and more written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago dopa dead - remember the deleting online predators act, which threatened to ban minors from accessing social networks in us schools and libraries? the problem with the bill wasn't so much the plan to block myspace (although many were opposed to that)... entertainment sex tape leads to youtube shutdown order from brazil written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago a court in brazil has ordered that youtube should be shut down until the site removes a celebrity sex video. the clip shows daniela cicarelli, a model and ex-wife of ronaldo, having sex with her boyfriend on a beach, and it quickly became popular on ... entertainment momjunction, another "myspace for moms", raises $1.5 million written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago moms are going to have a lot of options when it comes to networking on the web. today momjunction, yet another new player, announced that it has raised $1.5 million in first round funding. investors include pointroll ceo christopher saridakis and fou... entertainment linkedin launches linkedin answers written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago an unexpected move from linkedin: they've launched linkedin answers today, a service similar to yahoo answers that lets you ask questions to members of your network. you enter your question, pick the members of your network who are likely to know the... entertainment meebome widgets come to traineo written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago the folks at traineo just let us know that they've partnered with meebo around the meebome widget, which puts im on social networking pages and blogs. traineo, a fitness community we've covered in the past, now lets you post a meebome widget on your ... entertainment vmix funded written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago youtube may have won the video-sharing crown, but that hasn't stopped the money from flowing into the video space. vmix, which launched way back in october 2005, has received a second round of funding, according to reports today. the undisclosed amou... entertainment sploder launches - custom games for myspace written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago the creator of the slideroll slideshows tool has just launched something very cool: sploder allows you to build your own custom flash games and post them to myspace, xanga, hi5, piczo and the rest. it's your typical action game, with a spaceship, mis... entertainment four gay and lesbian social networks coming out written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago is it me, or is it getting a bit gay in here? following the news earlier this week that gay, lesbian and bisexual people are some of the most active users of social networks, we've been notified of four - yep, four - glb social sites are expected to ... entertainment brides.com launches myspace countdowns, leafletter launches written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago looks like marketers are starting to toy with the idea of myspace codes: condé nast is now launching a two-month long promotional campaign for brides.com based around a myspace page and embeddable widgets. they're offering two add-ons for your profil... entertainment myspace teens are privacy savvy? written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago a study of the personal data posted by myspace teens is getting some interest today, since it seems to show that myspacers are more privacy-conscious that the newspaper scare-stories usually assume. the research by the university of wisconsin-eau cla... entertainment youtube blocked in brazil written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago there are widespread reports today (although annoyingly, few sources) that youtube has been blocked in brazil following the court order earlier this week. model daniela cicarelli, you'll remember, demanded over $100,000 in damages for every day her s... entertainment rawsugar users to live more simpy written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago we covered the news just before new year that the social bookmarking site rawsugar is attempting to sell its assets - the site may be taken down within a few months. today otis gospodnetic, the founder of the bookmarking site simpy, informed us that ... entertainment bebo bookstore launches written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago our hypothetical myspace store has yet to materialize, but bebo has made a step towards the sale of retail items through the launch of a bebo bookstore, seemingly called "bebo authors". you get the sense that bebo is just dipping a toe into these wat... entertainment chacha gets $6m from jeff bezos, others written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago the nytimes mentioned this news briefly last week, and today we're expecting the announcement that the social search engine chacha has raised $6 million in a round led by bezos expeditions, the personal investment firm of amazon founder jeff bezos. r... entertainment esnips launches microportals written by pete cashmore about 13 years ago the social media-sharing site esnips is announcing the launch of "microportals" today at ces in las vegas. these are niche community pages on specific topics - remixing, the paranormal, spirituality, poetry, photography, painting, gifts, crafts, kara... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 217 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.