we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for may 2007 entertainment comcast chooses yahoo...google kicked in the nuts? written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago google had better watch out: it seems the big media companies are defecting to yahoo, perhaps because they're still sore about the massive success of youtube. take comcast, for instance: they're part of the "youtube killer" being built by news corp. ... entertainment ebuddy mobile app written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago we already covered ebuddy mobile, but that's simply a version of the site that works on tiny mobile screens. now there's a java app for mobile phones, aiming to serve at least of fraction of the site's 10.3 million monthly unique visitors. the app is... entertainment microsoft to buy 24/7 real media ad network? written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago microsoft is rumored to have their eye on 24/7 real media, an ad network that's seemingly next in line for acquisition. while 24/7 real media has been valued at $600 million, microsoft may be ready to put in nearly $1 billion for the company. small p... entertainment contextweb launches adsdaq for ad trading written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago contextweb, the contextual advertising company, announces today their advertising exchange platform adsdaq. adsdaq will introduce a marketplace for site publishers and advertisers to expound the true model for supply and demand. adsdaq is currently i... entertainment pure digital launching flip video for the youtube crowd written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago pure digital, maker of disposable cameras often sold in drug stores, has created their flip video, an everyday camcorder that has a built-in usb plug for easy uploading of videos. the camcorder sells for $119 for 30 minutes of storage space, and $149... entertainment twango's new google earth features written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago twango, the feature-rich media sharing site, is integrating google earth into their user offerings. with this new feature, you can now see twango media and members on google earth. from a user's channel page, you can choose the subscribe link and cli... entertainment webby awards winners announced written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago the winners of the annual webby awards have been announced today, celebrating individuals and companies making strides in our digital and internet culture. the awards are presented by the international academy of digital arts and sciences. there will... entertainment cruxy officially launches version 1.0 written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago cruxy, the marketplace for independent content creators to sell their work, officially launches today. cruxy has been tinkering around in their public beta for six months now, and today marks their official release of the cruxy, version 1.0. their me... entertainment expotv rolls out new features, highlighting consumer experts written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago expotv, the online network displaying consumer video product reviews, is launching a set of new features today. included in expotv's new features is their "how-to" guides, showing top expotv members in an expansive consumer series, and increated crea... entertainment me.tv - your own youtube at your own domain written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago apologies to demand media for breaking this embargo - others had already done so. you can check out mashable's test account at petecashmore.tv (that's the $24.99 domain). the editing screens are in the screenshots. -- me.tv is launching on wednesday,... entertainment box.net announces a business file-sharing widget written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago box.net, file hosting service and creator of the file-sharing widget, is launching a pro service for businesses. the box.net pro service offers all of the same features as their regular service, which gained traction as a storage solution for photos ... entertainment murdoch bids $5 billion for dow jones and the wall street journal written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago rupert murdoch, famed owner of news corp. which is the parent company of myspace, has made a $5 billion bid for the bancroft family's 24.7% share of dow jones, which is the parent company of the wall street journal. the bancroft's have a controlling ... entertainment barcardz is the cyber calling card written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago barcardz is a new social network aimed at putting a stop to cyber-stalkers. in essence, they've created a supremely elite way of creating your personal profile and building up your network. it starts with your barcard. you can customize and print the... entertainment wikia brings on jabber founder written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago wikia, the open source search engine project, has brought jabber founder jeremie miller on board. as wikia founder jimmy wales has begun to put a lot of effort into his project, he is now starting to assemble a team that can meet the task at hand. wi... entertainment joost invites unlimited written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago update (august 17th 2007): for a more efficient way to get a joost invite, please visit the joost thread on mashable invites. you will need to create an account there to get your invite, but it only takes a few seconds and it loads a lot faster than ... entertainment no mercy - digg out of control written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago digg is imploding today. literally. the site's million plus users have turned on digg's management, covering the entire site with an hd-dvd encryption key that the moderators were fighting to remove. you can't even submit a story right now, and frequ... entertainment number hidden in magic eye picture written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago update: i could have put the number in the image, but i figured it would be more amusing to just post a blank magic eye picture and see how many people wasted time on it. luckily, the answer was quite a few. ;) --- doing our bit for the kids over at ... entertainment scenes from the digg implosion written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago this digg disaster is unbelievable: we thought things looked insane a few hours ago, but now the diggers have stepped things up an notch, with the hd number posted many millions of times across the site. kevin rose, it seems, has gone from being a de... entertainment how this kid lost $60 million in 18 hours (or not) written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago found via the mashable comments, a remix of the widely-derided business week cover featuring digg's kevin rose. the irony here is that rose is known to be a bittorrent user and likely opposed to drm: the community is just a reflection of his beliefs.... entertainment fundraising for the digg lawsuit written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago kevin rose just posted on the digg blog to say that they can no longer stem the tide - the community just can't survive if all the members are at odds with the site's staff: but now, after seeing hundreds of stories and reading thousands of comments,... entertainment 10 awesome things built on the facebook api written by adam ostrow almost 13 years ago as opposed to the relatively new digg api, the facebook api has been available to developers since the summer. with more than 100 applications now featured in the facebook developers product directory, we decided it was time to cut through the clutte... entertainment disney launches xd with parental controls written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago disney has launched their myspace equivalent website for pre-teens, complete with widgets, games and videos, called disney xtreme digital (xd). all content available on the site is disney-related, and there's plenty to choose from. the widgets can be... entertainment hot or not users get new found freedom written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago hot or not, the famed photo rating site that has spawned many, many copycat motifs, has added a few new features. one being their new free status. you no longer have to purchase a premium account to enjoy all the benefits of the hot or not site. but ... entertainment boo.com - dot bomb makes return flight written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago the boo is back! why anyone would want to associate themselves with the uk company that famously burned its way through $120 million back in the boom is questionable, but nonetheless, the uk's equivalent of pets.com (ie. massive dot com flameout) is ... entertainment feedlounge: sh*tfanned written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago another rss reader comes unstuck: feedlounge, launched sometime in 2005 with a speedy ajax interface and the nerve to actually charge users for the service, has announced that it will close on june 1st, 2007. the main problem appears to be the develo... entertainment joost invites update written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago a lot of mashable readers wanted joost invites, and we've set up a system in the comments of the joost post to ensure no one is left out. i just invited another round of commenters, but for this to work, you need to reciprocate: if you received an in... entertainment jangl on typepad written by pete cashmore almost 13 years ago voip widget provider jangl will announce today that the widget is available to typepad users - it's now a featured widget. the embedded code lets bloggers speak, text and exchange voicemail with readers on their mobile phones. typepad is another good... entertainment prom queen to reign viral video? written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago looks like prom queen really is on its way to becoming a hit. the 90-second, daily soap launched by michael eisner's new production firm vuguru, is raking in an average of 200,000 views a day and has accumulated over 5.2 million views since it debute... entertainment vonage could be saved by supreme court ruling written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago in a surprising and unprecedented ruling by the supreme court on "obviousness," vonage may have found their saving grace. while this latest ruling has implications far beyond the vonage/verizon battle, it's sure to at least make vonage sleep better t... entertainment gatsb is twitter for geo-tagged photos written by kristen nicole almost 13 years ago gatsb (pronounced gatsby) is a new service for sharing your mobile photos along with geographical information. with gatsb, you can send your photo to your profile from your mobile phone, include information like the address or intersection, phone num... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 17 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.