we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for february 2006 entertainment last.fm versus pandora (continued) written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago steve krause has contributed to the ongoing last.fm vs pandora discussion with an excellent and in-depth post. he writes: algorithmically, pandora versus last.fm is something like the nature versus nurture debate. taking the nature side, pandora's re... entertainment 8by1 - wishlist for your world written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago hot on the heels of standpoint comes another 43things-esque site: 8by1. the service aims to cultivate social change through community. from the about page: 8by1 is your wishlist for the world. 8by1 helps you evangelize your wishes for the world, and ... entertainment dabble - del.icio.us for video? written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago here's an inevitable idea that has finally become a reality: video bookmarking. om malik reports that dabble will allow you to aggregate videos on your own personal page and use a bookmarklet to add any video you see online. it's essentially a video-... entertainment the rise of the memetrackers written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago has memeorandum got competition? over the last few months, a number of services have sprung up to help us find the most talked-about news of the moment. time for a check-up on the state of the memeosphere... memeorandum - if you're into tech or us po... entertainment podtrac - more podcast advertising written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago eventually, podcasting will have to find a sustainable business model. whether it's fruitcast-style automated ad insertion or more subtle product placements (i love diet coke, by the way), there will have to be some way to get paid for your podcasts.... entertainment blummy - bookmarklets, but better written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago i spoke yesterday to the designer of blummy (his site is here). the coding was done by alex kirk. so what's blummy? well, it's a simple service that lets you organize your ever-expanding bookmarklet collection into groups. barb at the social software... entertainment current.tv - a ten step lesson in screwing up peer production written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago i'm not at all impressed by current.tv. it's not that the content is bad (it's bearable), but the approach is completely and utterly backwards. current is what happens when some tv execs catch a whiff of "user-generated content" and decide to shoehor... entertainment french version of techcrunch launches written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago looks like a french version of techcrunch just launched - i'm suddenly getting a lot of trackbacks (especially on older posts) from a site called fr.techcrunch.com. there's no word on the main techcrunch site yet, but i think a french version is a gr... entertainment videobomb - digg for video written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago back when dabble was big news, i pointed out that a video aggregator (aka "del.icio.us for video" or "digg for video") was an utterly obvious idea. and indeed it is. today steve rubel points to what will no doubt be the first of many video aggregator... entertainment yahoo to incentivize search? written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago following on from bill gates' suggestion that users should be paid to use msn search, techdirt hints that yahoo might reward users to use their own search engine. of course, users won't get paid cash, but instead they could receive free music downloa... entertainment new mashable blog - weblist! written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago i'm back, baby! apologies for the long silence these last few days, but i've now got some goodies to show ya. not only is the new mashable design almost fixed (i still need to transfer a few more features over from the old template), but i've started... entertainment 3bubbles - why i'm skeptical about live chat on blogs written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago mike arrington seems keen on 3bubbles, a soon-to-launch service that lets you put a live chat window on your blog posts. but you can put me down as one of the skeptics. mike writes: silicon valley based 3bubbles, which launches next week, is going to... entertainment edgeio - mike's little ebay killer written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago i gotta say that i love edgeio. mike arrington called me today and gave me a demo of the new classifieds service he has worked on with keith teare. i really can't fault it. it ties in with so much of the stuff that i've been thinking about recently -... entertainment cocomment is the best web 2.0 service launched this year written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago i love, love, love cocomment! the idea is a good one: bring together your widely scattered blog comments and help you track the replies from around the...err...commentosphere. but not only is the idea good - the execution is excellent. nary a day aft... entertainment stickam written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago there's something strangely compelling about watching a stranger staring at his computer screen. i know, because i'm doing it right now. stickam, which launches officially on february 15th (you can access the site today), is essentially a widget for ... entertainment it's official...google buys measuremap written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago the rumors were true - google has snapped up measuremap, the excellent and beautifully designed blog analytics tool. what's interesting here is that measuremap was barely outta the gate - is this the first web 2.0 service to be bought up while still ... entertainment sonr is a terrible, terrible idea that simply won't work written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago i seem to be going through a love-hate relationship with web apps at the moment. i wasn't going to post about this one, but i just spotted a post by richard macmanus on the subject and i think he got it very, very wrong. the service in question is so... entertainment firefox is dead, long live opera? written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago after hogging memory, freezing up, crashing repeatedly and generally misbehaving, firefox has finally given up running on my machine altogether. i could scour the forums yet again to see what's gone wrong, but i'm just plain tired of the constant pro... entertainment campfire goes live written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago i've just been testing out campfire, the new web-based chat service from 37signals. as you'd expect, it's simple, intuitive and good looking. it's really a service for small businesses who want to keep all their chats in one place (all chats are perm... entertainment jamendo - review, rate and tag music written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago we all know the problem: there are thousands of unsigned artists who want people to hear their music, and thousands of music fans who want access to high quality music for free. using creative commons licensing, jamendo is trying to bring these group... entertainment ma.gnolia - because you really need another social bookmarking site written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago ma.gnolia is a new social bookmarking site. that's right folks - another one. it has an attractive interface with all the standard features - tagging, rss feeds, even a digg-like voting system. from the site: find and save your favorite website bookm... entertainment blogburst - your blog in the washington post, sorta written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago mike has put up a pretty favorable post on blogburst, a new service from the makers of pluck that will syndicate blog content to mainstream media sites. in this instance, i think his optimism is well-placed, with a few reservations. first, why no rev... entertainment myspace games from bunchball written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago bunchball is shaping up to be a nice product. the service allows you to place flash games on your blog, your myspace page or virtually any website. that's a nice idea, but when i tested the service a few months back it just didn't work right. i retur... entertainment the mashable reshuffle written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago update: a few of you requested a complete feed that merged entries from mashable.com, mashable/journal and mashable/weblist. lucky for you, i finally figured out how to do it! you can now subscribe to all 3 sites using this feed: completelymashable -... entertainment feedxs - an early edge feeder? written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago feedxs is old news by blogosphere standards (over a month old!), but i'm picking it out as an example of a basic edge feeder. one of the big criticisms levelled against edgeio and other edge plays is that you need to have a blog to contribute. in the... entertainment google's new strategy: spray and pray written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago i wonder if google has patented its spray and pray technology? froogle, google catalogs, google base, google blog search and the new google pages...it just feels like google is throwing everything out there to see what sticks. while it's tempting to ... entertainment numbler - web-based spreadsheets written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago numbler is a new web-based spreadsheet (websheet?) along the lines of numsum. not only is it more attractive than numsum, but it has an easy-to-use wysiwg interface. from the site: welcome to numbler, the web based spreadsheet that enables instantane... entertainment thumbstacks - powerpoint for the web written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago once you get past the basic interface and deceptively bland logo, you'll notice that thumbstacks is actually a pretty interesting application. why? because it fills the one remaining gap in the supposed web 2.0 office suite that some bloggers are roo... entertainment weed - (nearly) microchunked music written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago weed isn't a new service, but it's a pretty interesting example of viral revenue chains. instead of going against the flow by suing everyone who dares to share their music collection, weed embeds the monetization unit within the file itself. that's r... entertainment here comes googlepal! written by pete cashmore about 14 years ago so google is planning to add payments to googlebase, effectively creating a competitor to paypal and ebay. judging by the sorry state of googlebase, i sure as hell hope they know what they're doing. on the upside, google is finally starting to divers... ← previous 1 2 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.