we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for november 2014 a white house usher takes a model of one of the obama dogs outside as halloween decorations adorn the south portico of the white house in washington. image: jacquelyn martin/associated press world pumpkins, acrobats and the obamas: trick-or-treating at the white house written by katie sola over 5 years ago the obamas handed out candy to dr. seuss characters and slices of pizza a tourist from ethiopia walks behind a poster referring to ebola, at suvarnbhumi airport in bangkok, thailand monday, oct . 27, 2014. image: sakchai lalit/associated press entertainment canada restricts visas for travelers from ebola-stricken countries written by the associated press over 5 years ago toronto -- canada has joined australia in suspending entry visas for people from ebola-stricken countries in west africa in an attempt to keep the deadly disease away. the canadian government said friday it is suspending visa applications for residen... paul and jill tahmooressi stand outside the mexican consulate in miami, monday, may 5, 2014, protesting the arrest of their son in mexico. andrew tahmooressi. image: pat carter/associated press world marine who crossed border with loaded guns ordered to be released from mexican jail written by the associated press over 5 years ago san diego — a mexican judge has ordered the immediate release of a jailed u.s. marine veteran who spent eight months behind bars for crossing the border with loaded guns. family spokesman jonathan franks told the associated press on friday that the j... spaceshiptwo under rocket power, over mojave, calif. in 2013. image: virgin galactic, mark greenberg/associated press world space travel is dangerous. there will be no tourists. written by chris taylor over 5 years ago lulled into a false sense of security by jet travel, we have come to assume space tourism will be much the same. video: youtube, samsung tech samsung galaxy a5 and a3 phones try to capture young people's attention written by rex santus over 5 years ago samsung is trying to make its phones as cool as possible. parade revelers dressed in costumes, like this wolverine outfit. world whoopi goldberg and thousands of costumed revelers flock to new york's halloween parade written by brittany levine over 5 years ago thousands of costumed revelers paraded up sixth avenue during the annual village halloween parade in new york city. it was elbow-to-elbow at times as onlookers and participants in the parade—which was started in the 1970s—swarmed the packed route thr... in this march 27, 2014 photo, trent reznor of nine inch nails performs at the vive latino music festival in mexico city, mexico. image: rebecca blackwell/associated press entertainment trent reznor working with apple on secret music project written by karissa bell over 5 years ago trent reznor hinted that the project is "in the world" of music delivery. culture heidi klum unveils her transformation into an insect for halloween written by brittany levine over 5 years ago klum's halloween motto: go big or go home. culture two guys in illinois have taken halloween lights to the next level written by eitan levine over 5 years ago what's that? you carved a pumpkin? that’s cute. world egyptian dj transforms rough neighborhood through lively 'mahraganat' music written by elizabeth pierson over 5 years ago 'mahraganat,' which means "festivals" in arabic, is egypt's newest musical genre. image: flickr, eric kilby culture 16 frightening gifs that will creep you out of your skin written by brian koerber over 5 years ago boo! acrylic paint makes this drawing damaging to the park it was left in. image: ashley braun world national parks work on delicate task of removing graffiti written by the associated press over 5 years ago a women allegedly painted faces in eight parks. image: mashable composite. rormix entertainment you'll really hear it here first in music app for unsigned bands written by james o'brien over 5 years ago it takes a special kind of optimist to bet their own money on whether there's a big enough audience out there to support a discovery app for music videos by unsigned and emerging bands. image: revelle jackson, upper hutt city library, via digitalnz. (cc-by-nc) world proof that teens were painfully awkward even in the 1960s written by chris wild over 5 years ago eesh. even the swingin' sixties had gawky teen dances. it really is possible to spend an afternoon in central park without seeing too many other people. image: flickr, gigi_nyc entertainment 15 new york city attractions for people who hate people written by jillian kumagai over 5 years ago if you're ever feeling a little misanthropic — something many new yorkers understand — check out these locations, where you can enjoy being alone. image: marcin cieślak/wikimedia commons world crash test dummies are growing to match obese americans written by takepart over 5 years ago the mannequins that help manufacturers measure vehicle safety will grow by about 100 pounds to more accurately reflect the average body. image: @elakdawalla world chinese spacecraft returns after flying around the moon written by the associated press over 5 years ago the eight-day trip marked the first time in almost four decades that a spacecraft has returned to earth after traveling around the moon. a woman attends a demonstration in abuja, nigeria, on thursday sept. 11, 2014, calling on the government to rescue the kidnapped girls of the government secondary school in chibok. image: olamikan gbemiga/associated press world boko haram denies cease-fire, leader says he married off kidnapped girls written by the associated press over 5 years ago the leader of boko haram has denied agreeing to any cease-fire with the nigerian government, and said he married off the more than 200 schoolgirls that the islamic extremist group kidnapped. culture 20 captivating slow-mo videos made on the iphone 6 written by brian koerber over 5 years ago everything is better in slow motion. dallas nurse nina pham, who recovered from ebola, reunites with her dog bentley. image: cbsdfw world dallas nurse nina pham reunites with dog after ebola scare written by colin daileda over 5 years ago pham reunited with her dog bentley on saturday, after the canine was quarantined until doctors determined that he was ebola-free. culture leds light up nyc for the empire state building halloween light show written by laura vitto over 5 years ago nothing screams halloween in new york city quite like the the empire state building. ahmed musa (left) of pfc cska moscow challenged by bastos of fc rostov during the russian premier league match between pfc cska moscow and fc rostov at the arena khimki stadium on aug. 31, 2014 in khimki, russia. image: epsilon/getty images world russian soccer coach says he won’t sign any black players over ebola fears written by christopher miller over 5 years ago the coach of russian premier league team fc rostov said on saturday that he would not sign any more black footballers over fears that they would bring with them the deadly ebola virus. world in pictures, halloween celebrations worldwide bring out ghosts and ghouls written by max knoblauch over 5 years ago we are united in our global fascination with creepy costumes and candy consumption. crowds surround the blood swept lands and seas of red installation at the tower of london on oct. 25 2014. image: flickr, emmadukew world tower of london memorial organizers ask visitors to stay home over massive crowds written by adario strange over 5 years ago a war memorial at the tower of london has become so popular that visitors have been encouraged to stay away. culture 19 celebrities who went all out for halloween 2014 written by max knoblauch over 5 years ago who wore it better: zach braff or kurt russell? the virgin galactic spaceshiptwo rocket separates from the carrier aircraft prior to it exploding in the air during a test flight on oct. 31. image: kenneth brown/associated press world some defend space flight in wake of deadly virgin galactic crash written by colin daileda over 5 years ago in the wake of the fatal crash of virgin galactic's spaceshiptwo, some people have continued to voice their support for space exploration. billionaire virgin galactic founder richard branson salutes the bravery of test pilots, and vows to find out what caused the crash of his prototype space tourism rocket that killed one crew member and injured another during a news conference in mojave, calif., on saturday, nov. 1, 2014. image: brian melley/associated press world richard branson on virgin galactic crash: 'we're going to learn from what went wrong' written by colin daileda over 5 years ago "humanity’s greatest achievements come out of our greatest pain," branson said. image: facebook prattville police department u.s. alabama dog helps police bust owner on drug charges written by max knoblauch over 5 years ago some best friend this pooch is. image: gilt tech hp and gilt groupe unveil fashion-focused smartwatch written by adario strange over 5 years ago hp has unveiled its entry into the smartwatch race with a device designed to attract fashion-focused men. mike alsbury, a project engineer and pilot, gestures in a photo taken on april 3, 2003 in mojave, california. image: david mcnew/getty images world spaceshiptwo pilots, one killed and one injured in virgin galactic crash, identified written by colin daileda over 5 years ago michael alsbury, reportedly a married father of two, was 39 years old. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 65 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.