we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for october 2012 entertainment watch these epic iphone 5 vs. android music videos written by brian anthony hernandez over 7 years ago youtube vocal heavyweights j rice and peter hollens pit the iphone 5 against android devices in these two funny music videos, featuring "gangnam style" elevator dance moves and plenty of smack talk. "all my apple sons and daughters, give praise to th... tech amazon kindle paperwhite is the best e-ink screen you can buy [review] written by lance ulanoff over 7 years ago one thing amazon is not afraid of is change. it alters product designs as often as some people change shirts or at least hairstyles. the point is: the way your amazon kindle looks today is not necessarily the way it'll look tomorrow. the new amazon k... entertainment 'dexter' and 'homeland' premieres available in full on youtube written by brian anthony hernandez over 7 years ago showtime has posted sunday's season-seven premiere of serial-killer drama dexter on its youtube channel, with the brief description, "debra attempts to reconcile with dexter." leading up to the sept. 30 premiere, showtime had teased fans with a 120-s... entertainment 7 free android apps for killing time in lines written by lauren drell over 7 years ago with smartphones, tablets and the cloud, we've gotten used to multitasking and efficiency. god forbid we spend five minutes disconnected from our devices. next time you find yourself stuck in a long line or waiting out a seemingly never-ending flight... business twice as many mobile news readers prefer browsers to apps [study] written by lauren indvik over 7 years ago news organizations have invested significantly in native apps for ios, android, wp7 and even, for a time, webos -- yet nearly three times as many tablet owners and twice as many smartphone users access news primarily through browsers rather than apps... tech hp shows what windows 8 tablets for business will look like [pics] written by pete pachal over 7 years ago we now know what a windows 8 tablet for business looks like, and it's the hewlett-packard elitepad: a slim, intel-powered slate loaded with security software and backed by an armada of accessories, including adapters, a rugged case and a stylus. whil... entertainment illegal downloaders in japan face two years in prison written by stan schroeder over 7 years ago under a new law that goes into effect oct. 1, japanese internet users who illegally download files face a 2-year prison sentence or a fine of up to 2 million yen ($25,700), the bbc reports. theoretically, pirating just one file could get you in jail ... tech 65 digital media resources you may have missed written by fran berkman over 7 years ago time passes quickly and change is relentless, particularly in the digital sphere. so, if your busy life kept you away from the internet this week, there's plenty you may have missed. but don't fret -- mashable, your cyber ally, is here to relieve you... culture 10 funny youtube clips of sleeping dogs written by amy-mae elliott over 7 years ago you know the phrase "let sleeping dogs lie?" well, we quite agree, but would also add -- "and be sure to grab your camera." we have found 10 funny youtube clips of sleeping canine companions, only they're up to all kinds of tricks, from sleep-barking... tech watch these quadrotor robots learn to play catch [video] written by anita li over 7 years ago while they may not be as fluffy as man's best friend, a trio of quadrotor robots have learned to play catch. researchers in switzerland attached a net to the quadrotors, which cooperate to catch objects thrown their way. the drones then slingshot the... entertainment nokia inks map deal with oracle written by stan schroeder over 7 years ago nokia has signed a deal with oracle to providee mapping and location services across oracle's range of applications. the deal, which was first reported by the wall street journal and is expected to be officially announced oct 1., will see nokia maps ... entertainment verizon iphone 5 updated to fix wi-fi bug written by stan schroeder over 7 years ago after being treated to unlocked iphone 5s, verizon customers got another surprise, albeit this time not a good one -- a bug sometimes caused the iphone 5 to slurp cellular data although it was connected to wi-fi. this was a particularly nasty bug, as... u.s. mashable weekend recap: 67 stories you might have missed written by anita li over 7 years ago the fallout from apple's maps debacle was among the top headlines this past weekend. mashable brought you those stories, as well as other tech and social media news while you were out of the office. our staff kept tabs on all the latest happenings, s... tech soundfreaq clock dock rocks enormous sound [review] written by charlie white over 7 years ago you've never seen (or heard) a dock like this before. the soundfreaq sound rise wakes you up with spendid sound, and has smart alarm features too. business need a job? warner bros. and 170+ companies are hiring written by bob al-greene over 7 years ago mashable's mission is to inform the connected generation; but we can help you put that knowledge to work, too. since 2005, mashable has been committed to bringing the top digital, social and tech news and resources to our readers. over time, we've bu... business workday sets ipo valuing company at as much as $3.85 billion written by seth fiegerman over 7 years ago workday, a cloud software company, revealed plans to sell 22.75 million shares of stock valued at between $21-$24 in a new filing with the sec on monday. entertainment netflix ‘for kids’ now available on the ipad written by stan schroeder over 7 years ago netflix has moved its "just for kids" section to tablet territory, launching the section in the netflix app for apple's ipad. the new section, aimed at kids aged 12 and under, lets users choose shows to watch from a grid of icons. clicking a button i... tech did you know bluetooth was named for a danish king? written by jennifer shore over 7 years ago if you've ever had to save face after trying to start a conversation with someone who's on bluetooth -- or have been embarrassed when people think you're talking to yourself -- you can blame a former king of denmark. king harald "bluetooth" blatand, ... culture is this what reddit will look like in 3012? written by stephanie haberman over 7 years ago have you ever wondered what reddit will look like 1000 years from now? if so, reddit user gonzoblair has you covered. when lauded about the massive amount of time and effort it must have taken to create the image, gonzoblair replied, "thanks. i have ... business sheryl sandberg 'disappointed' and 'surprised' by facebook ipo aftermath written by seth fiegerman over 7 years ago sheryl sandberg, facebook's chief operating officer, opened up about the company's difficult ipo for the first time monday during an interview with cnbc. entertainment send and receive new facebook gifts without hurt feelings written by technewsdaily over 7 years ago facebook is rolling out a new, real-life gift-giving feature, making a normally private affair very public, and potentially causing awkward moments between friends. the new facebook gifts feature will appear on all facebook timeline pages, presenting... entertainment social tv app peel to give deep analysis of presidential debates written by sam laird over 7 years ago the tv discovery app peel used its real-time social platform to provide a second-screen interactive experience this spring for american idol, and now it's turning its lens in a different direction: politics. during american idol, ios peel users were ... business oh baby! yahoo ceo marissa mayer has a son written by samantha murphy kelly over 7 years ago yahoo's new ceo marissa mayer has given birth to a baby boy, according to a tweet sent on monday by her husband. the 37-year-old executive, who announced in july that she was leaving google after 13 years, had her first child on sunday night, one wee... culture spocktober: when everyone looks good in vulcan ears [pics] written by amanda wills over 7 years ago welcome to october -- the month of apple-picking weekends, ghost stories, party city costumes and spock. ok, so maybe it's not exactly a month about spock in the traditional sense, but "spocktober" is an excellent portmanteau. and, really, that's all... business google passes microsoft's market value for first time ever written by seth fiegerman over 7 years ago google's market cap passed microsoft's in early trading on monday, making it the second most valuable technology company in the world behind apple. business microsoft to launch own news operation oct. 26 written by lauren indvik over 7 years ago microsoft is getting back into the news business, three months after announcing the breakup of its 16-year online partnership with nbc. microsoft will take the wraps off the new msn.com when windows 8 launches on oct. 26. "we still have a relationshi... tech 25% of americans were victims of security breaches in past year written by samantha murphy kelly over 7 years ago one in four consumers in the united states had personal identification lost or stolen due to a data breach in the past year, a new study suggests. twenty-five percent of americans have received a notification by a business, online service provider or... entertainment internet tv isn't ready to replace cable yet written by mit technology review over 7 years ago roku founder anthony wood runs a startup that, along with companies like apple and microsoft, sells hardware that's bringing web video to home television screens. it's no wonder his nine-year-old daughter prefers to watch her favorite disney shows on... entertainment 'skyfall' video gives glimpse of bond's underwater fight scene written by brian anthony hernandez over 7 years ago james bond fans are getting an early taste of skyfall, the upcoming 23rd installment in the spy film franchise, through a series of youtube videos. the latest clip highlights the ins and outs of taping an underwater fight scene with actor daniel crai... tech microsoft building a special version of msn.com for windows 8 [hands on] written by pete pachal over 7 years ago when windows 8 launches on friday, oct. 26, so will the new msn.com -- the home of msn news, a new microsoft-owned and operated news organization. the new msn will also serve up a special version of the site for windows 8 users. if you view the new m... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 65 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.