we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for july 2008 entertainment cocomment tracks your reputation across the commentsphere written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago cocomment is launching a number of new features this morning to attempt to further establish itself amidst a growing number of competitors that want to track your online conversations and reputation. the service, which both powers commenting features... entertainment remember all those seo tips you read? they are wrong written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago well, not all of them. but the one you'll very frequently encounter went something along these lines: a search engine likes text. therefore, if you're building a flash website, its position on search engines will, by definition, suck. not any longer.... entertainment summermash miami heats up written by karen hartline over 11 years ago the temperature is rising as mashable's pete cashmore and karen hartline represent for the first time in miami with the fifth stop on the u.s. summer tour. the event is one you won't want to miss as we're kicking things up a notch for the dailyme lau... entertainment nielsen: digg traffic sucks. mashable: that's what she said written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago the latest analysis from jakob nielsen's useit focuses on "bounce rates" and getting that elusive "second click". it's pretty much in line with everything experts have been saying on this topic for the last couple of years: unique visitors are a bad ... entertainment fring enriches mobile im client with fringadd-ons written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago first of all, if you think the name fringadd-ons is a bit clumsy, you're right. we didn't make it up: that's the official name for add-on applications that can be integrated with the already quite powerful mobile im/voip client fring. if you aren't f... entertainment save $600 on demofall08 tickets written by tamar weinberg over 11 years ago demo is the launchpad for emerging technology. during two exciting days of rapid-fire, six-minute presentations, you will be the first to see the most innovative, market-defining products unveiled for the very first time. with more than 20,000 techno... entertainment web 2.0 marketplace listings for july 1st, 2008 written by pete cashmore over 11 years ago the web 2.0 marketplace is a place to list web 2.0 and “new media” websites for sale, job offers, consulting services, facebook development services and more. new listings 2k/month in revenue premium theme!brief introduction to the market themennthe ... entertainment web 2.0 invites for july 1st, 2008 written by pete cashmore over 11 years ago new web 2.0 services await; all you need to do is grab your free invites over at mashable invites! searchmonkey invitessearchmonkey allows developers and site owners to use structured data to make yahoo! search results ... soundcloud invitessoundclou... entertainment vois: virtual outsourcing is simple. and now social. written by kristen nicole over 11 years ago vois, the social network that started out as an online forum for the mature crowd, has been expanding and tweaking its approach to attract a wider range of users and provide more useful applications within its network, such as media reviews, greeting... entertainment web of fate lets you predict the future [the startup review] written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago editor’s note: if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion in “the startup review” series, please see the details here. startup details: company name: web of fate 20-word description: web of fate is a semantic analysis engine that... entertainment summermash new york city gets ready for its close-up written by karen hartline over 11 years ago the big finale on the u.s. summer tour is the one and only, new york city! we're going out with a bang and have some big surprises in store that you won't want to miss. trust me! the guest list continues to grow, but that means nothing until you've a... entertainment create and compare amazon lists on facebook with unspun written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago amazon, following the launch of its amazon giver and amazon grapevine apps in march, is introducing another option to install within your facebook account, this one centered on community rankings. what does this mean? lists, lists, and more lists. li... entertainment mashable on mixx: 30+ of our most popular stories written by sean p. aune over 11 years ago continuing our mashable social voting and bookmarking journey, we've put together a list of our 30+ most popular posts on mixx. below is an eclectic assortment of mashable posts from helpful toolboxes to startup news and reviews and more: digg pics g... entertainment myspace rocks the vote with a battle of the bands written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago pay no mind to the not-so-catchy nomenclature chosen by rock the vote and myspace for their new voter registration drive, dubbed “demrockracy,” a competition that enables any and all musical groups with pages on the network to encourage fans and foll... entertainment tripadvisor expands ad potential with acquisition of two travel networks written by kristen nicole over 11 years ago online travel network tripadvisor, an operational subsidiary of the expedia network, has just announced its acquisition of two other online travel resources, virtualtourist and onetime, for undisclosed amounts. with these acquisitions, tripadvisor is... entertainment add facebook-like chat to your socnet with userplane and converdge written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago as you probably know, facebook rolled out its own chat application earlier this year, allowing users to send instant messages to each other when logged on. adding chat was a no-brainer for facebook – even if only a small subset of users log-on regula... entertainment ustream passes 10mm viewers; launches new overlay features written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago live broadcasting service ustream has just rolled out a number of new upgrades and shared their latest usage statistics. the most notable new feature, which we first reported last month, is the introduction of overlays to everyone, so broadcasters ca... entertainment adobe gets the press but does search no favors written by steven hodson over 11 years ago it is easy to see by all the headlines today that adobe, google, and to a lesser degree yahoo, are getting all the love. as stan schroeder posted earlier this morning, adobe is getting together with google and yahoo to put some new technology in plac... entertainment qoof bridges gap between online shopping and video [israel media tour] written by ayelet noff over 11 years ago company name: qoof founded in: 2006 location: bet shemesh qoof is a video commerce startup that offers a widget etailors and publishers can use to publish product videos on their sites. founded by richard kligman in 2006, qoof's operations and team o... entertainment contextual advertising misfires hit presidential campaigns written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago contextual advertising, which aims to deliver ads based on the content of a web page, is big business. and as part of their online marketing strategies, politicians have been buying up ads across the major contextual ad networks like google adsense a... entertainment tay zonday does it live written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago clearly, the temptation for profits, grabbing a slice of ten million viewers, and trying out the bright and shiny re-designed ustream.tv site was too much to resist for a certain viral video star. tay zonday, best known for his viral video hit song "... entertainment friendfeed to become your podcast player? written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago audio podcasts still continue to be a prevalent form of information delivery, despite the rise of online video, and just about every major category of online content has well produced content (much like our own web 2.0-centric mashable conversations ... entertainment offload your info over-load [podcast] written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago with the proliferation of information sources and ways to read them, it seems counter-intuitive that one of the hotter topics in the blogosphere is still aggregation, discovery and syndication. yet here we are, yet another day, yet another twitter st... entertainment first look: digg's recommendation engine written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago digg's long awaited recommendation engine is now live for some users, which luckily includes me. it's time to take a look at what this new feature brings to the individual user as well as digg community as a whole. the reason i'm dividing these two c... entertainment how do you like the new last.fm? written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago this is not new for folks who've been invited into last.fm beta, but the bulk of users haven't seen the new look, which is likely to become the default look soon. i like it; for some reason, it reminds me of digg; everything got flattened, the design... entertainment friendfeed spy gives you a quick fix of...everything written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago sometimes, those side projects usually tucked under the label of "labs" - as in digg labs - turn out to be real winners. one such project is digg spy, which shows you the newly submitted digg stories in real-time. the concept has now been copied on a... entertainment crackspace loses the "bad" name, becomes ihiphop written by kristen nicole over 11 years ago when established record label executive charles "chuck" wilson jr. decided to launch a hip-hop social network nearly two years ago, pete liked the site's execution but wondered about its ability to differentiate itself from myspace, bebo and hi5. tod... entertainment 20+ tools for the best fourth of july ever written by sean p. aune over 11 years ago get out your sparklers and bottle rockets, it's time to celebrate the fourth of july, and we've put together a list to make this the best fourth of july yet! you can find the best fireworks displays in your area, recipes for your fourth of july party... entertainment network with gadget fetishists at pebuzz [the startup review] written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago editor’s note: if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion in “the startup review” series, please see the details here. startup details: company name: pebuzz 20-word description: a social networking site for personal electronics e... entertainment last.fm, radiohead give fans two years of free album playback written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago earlier today, we asked for your impressions of the last.fm design refresh, currently in a limited beta stage, for a likely full-fledged rollout in the near future. looking at our poll results for the morning, most of you so far appear enthused by th... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 17 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.