we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for may 2006 entertainment ksolo - social karaoke written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago ksolo is an online karaoke service that was recently acquired by fox, along with the previously mentioned memetracker newroo. i think it's a smart idea, but a quick glance at the site reveals plenty of easily-fixed problems. so what's good about it? ... entertainment yahoo tech - tech portal, web 2.0-style! written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago i'm mildly whelmed by yahoo tech. taking a more than a little inspiration from existing social software and web 2.0 design, it's a fairly attractive site (although admittedly a little cluttered - changing the screen width makes it far more managable)... entertainment spotback hits the spot! written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago newly-launched spotback is an impressive service. like findory, spotback provides personalized recommendations based on your reading habits and ratings you provide. there are already plenty of great reviews out there, so i thought i'd delve a bit dee... entertainment web 2.0 wars - filmloop vs. slide written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago this should be fun. let's take two competitive web startups, weigh up their pros and cons and decide which one (if any) will succeed. first up, two relative newbies in the online slideshow space. filmloop just raised $7 million in second round fundin... entertainment itzle - hive 7 meets chatsum written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago itzle is a new tool that lets you chat about a webpage in real time, complete with your own customizable avatar. you access it by hitting a browser bookmarklet, which redirects you to the site's url on itzle (if you've seen gabbly, you'll know what i... entertainment collectik - mixtapes for podcasts written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago more media remixing. collectik allows you to create your own playlists for others to download to their ipods. from the site: collectik.net is a website that helps you manage, mix and share media (audio and video) on the net. it's like mixtapes for po... entertainment abazab feeds the myspace beast written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago abazab is another service that aims to feed the myspace beast - the tool allows myspace users, tagworlders and bloggers to send video straight from their cellphones to a web widget. think of it as stickam for your phone. i haven't been able to test t... entertainment odesk - rentacoder 2.0? written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago odesk has been on my radar for a long while now, but it finally launched this week (after a 2 year beta!). the service allows you to hire coders from around the world in a rent-a-coder style marketplace. one difference is that odesk allows you to mai... entertainment yourspins - superb remixing site written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago that's what i'm talkin' 'bout! yourspins is a music remixing service - mix your own version of your favorite track and instantly post it to your blog or myspace page. there are also a bunch of social tools that let you share your mixes, browse by tag... entertainment pixpo - desktop video sharing written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago pixpo is a new video sharing application that runs on your desktop. pixpo supposedly makes it easier for you to share your video online, but i'm not convinced. from the site: pixpo makes it easy to get all your videos online. sure, it's not too hard ... entertainment fungow - social bookmarking rebooted written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago fungow is yet another social bookmarking site that's in private alpha right now. its claim to fame is that it makes organizing your bookmarks easier and less labor-intensive: fungow offers all of the conveniences and benefits of most other social boo... entertainment frappr serves up myspace maps written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago frappr may be a basic google maps mashup with a none-too-attractive interface, but it's driving good amounts of traffic (alexa). frappr has also become a big part of branding 2.0 efforts - askaninja, cuteoverload, twit, digg, firefox, the dawn and dr... entertainment bebo - myspace alternative written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago myspace isn't the only site riding the social networking trend: rival bebo is growing like a weed. bebo even looks set to overtake myspace in the uk market, according to the guardian. (nonetheless, the guardian published a similar article last month ... entertainment memeorandum becomes techmeme written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago gabe rivera writes that he's renamed tech.memeorandum. from now on, the tech industry's most popular memetracker will be called techmeme. i just checked, and it looks like all the old permalinks redirect to techmeme - smart. maybe we'll also be able ... entertainment siteadvisor proves that google isn't evil written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago siteadvisor is a rare thing: a new service that's actually kinda useful. the product, which launched in december 2005, was acquired by mcafee in april (for some reason the acquisition didn't get much coverage). so what does it do? well, the idea is t... entertainment the indiekarma experiment written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago indiekarma is a new way to get paid for blogging. the idea is that indiekarma members can automatically pay 1 cent to the blog owner whenever they visit (a "visit" lasts for an hour). from the site: each time you visit a website or blog on the indiek... entertainment myspace im client launches today! written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago while multiple people emailed me to say the project was a non-starter, i'm glad to say that the myspace im client i hyped up in march has soft-launched today. you can download it here. it will be officially called "myspaceim" and the slogan is "im fo... entertainment squidoo, edgeio and the "f-word" written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago mike arrington picks up on the fact that squidoo isn't performing all that well. some might say "failing". i had a nagging suspicion this might happen, but i probably didn't express my view as clearly as i could have. my concern (as expressed on my o... entertainment dealbundle - social shopping for deals written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago the social shopping space is hotting up, but that's no bad thing - unlike generalized social bookmarking sites, these things actually have a business model. the start-up costs are low, there's a tried and tested path to profitability and there's enou... entertainment my week in the ether written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago my inbox is overflowing this week with questions about ether.com, the paid calling service that i got excited about in march. the idea is that a client or blog reader can hit a button on your site, enter her credit card details and get a phone call f... entertainment aim pages - not as lame as you'd expect written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago there are plenty of interesting stories popping up today (check out google trends if you haven't already), but i think the launch of aol's new myspace rival aimpages (formerly aimspace) is the most significant. richard macmanus really nails it when h... entertainment buddyping feeds the myspace beast written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago scores of companies have contacted me over the last few weeks to tell me how they're feeding the myspace beast. among them is buddyping, a relatively new service that allows you to track the location of your friends via text message. wisely, buddypin... entertainment google co-op - google embracing social search? written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago there's plenty of google news today - some screenshots just appeared of google notebook (looks like a lightweight writely crossed with del.icio.us), while steve rubel is having lots of fun with google trends. but the most relevant release from a soci... entertainment nooz - digg meets myspace written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago at the risk of milking the meme, another compelling service just launched with the aim of feeding the myspace beast. it's called nooz, and can be summed up as "digg for myspacers". from the site: nooz is news for myspace members, by myspace members. ... entertainment coming soon: paypal payments via skype written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago skype journal delivered an interesting little tidbit this week: screenshots showing the ability to send and receive paypal payments via skype. there's no word on when the feature will be implemented, but it's already long overdue. what next? how abou... entertainment a micro review of rss micro written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago i just spotted a new rss search engine called rss micro. it seems that they're still adding features, but the result set isn't too bad. however, there's one problem here that i've seen a lot recently - ajax and permalinks. since rss micro is using aj... entertainment ourstockworks - web 2.0 stock photography written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago ourstockworks is a stock photography site slated for launch in august (yeah, these betas are getting longer and longer). it has an apple-inspired interface (like fluxiom), tagging, boatloads of ajax and rss feeds for everything. in addition, each use... entertainment posticky - web-based sticky notes written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago newly-launched posticky provides web-based post-it notes in your browser. you can use the sticky notes as mini do-to lists, and have reminders sent via email or text message to your cellphone. the blurb: posticky offers web based sticky notes availab... entertainment whatsbuzzing - social window shopping written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago whatsbuzzing - which launched at the end of last week - is throwing its weight behind social shopping. wisely, whatsbuzzing have gone with an aggregation model, allowing users to browse hundreds of shopping sites from a single location. in future, th... entertainment kicking up a crowdstorm written by pete cashmore almost 14 years ago uk-based shopping startup crowdstorm launches in the next few weeks - i took a sneak peek earlier today and found the execution particularly impressive. from the site: crowdstorm is a new innovation in online social shopping that works out the buzz a... ← previous 1 2 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.