we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for april 2009 entertainment it's april fools' day, and everyone wants to cheer you up written by stan schroeder almost 11 years ago every year, it, web and media companies around the web crack april fools' jokes, but since we're in a global economic recession, it seems that everyone feels the need to make their users smile, at least for one day. there's simply too many jokes out ... entertainment blackberry app world now live written by stan schroeder almost 11 years ago as expected, rim has launched its mobile application store, dubbed blackberry app world, at the ctia wireless show. as we know from before, the app world is quite similar to apple's app store as far as pricing and revenue share goes. applications wil... entertainment 5 iphone apps for pulling off pranks and tricks written by ben parr almost 11 years ago has someone thrown fake spiders on your bed yet? it's april fools day, and you probably have already been the target of someone's trickery. if you have been the victim of a whoopee cushion or fallen for someone's elaborate story about leaving to live... entertainment zoho chat 2.0 brings multi-protocol support written by stan schroeder almost 11 years ago zoho has announced a major new version of its zoho chat, which brings multi-protocol support and thus becomes a competitor to meebo and other web-based instant messengers which support several im protocols. zoho chat 2.0 brings support for yahoo!, go... entertainment chi.mp: own your online identity and social network contacts written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago social identity and content ownership is a hot topic that bloggers and twitterers alike discuss with passion. whether you want to own your online identity, content, or contacts, or you just have social network fatigue, chi.mp aims to be your online s... entertainment find a social media or web development job with mashable written by tamar weinberg almost 11 years ago are you seeking a new job? mashable’s job boards are currently open for business! we at mashable firmly believe that one of the lucky recipients of a new job can be you. this week and every week, mashable will be featuring its coveted job board listi... entertainment slideshare’s april fool’s prank: cruel, or just unusual? written by adam ostrow almost 11 years ago april fool’s day pranks are in full effect around the web, and so far, most of them have been pretty easy to defuse. but slideshare – the service that lets you share presentations online – is catching some heat for a prank that a lot of users fell fo... entertainment yahoo mobile: now with new design, customization, and social features written by ben parr almost 11 years ago last month at the mobile world congress, yahoo announced that they were developing a new, feature-rich mobile version of yahoo to replace the current interface. today, the company released its redesigned and upgraded mobile version, as well as the ya... entertainment mashable mixer atlanta: tickets now on sale written by adam hirsch almost 11 years ago mashable and regator are proud to announce the first ever mashable event in atlanta! we have a special evening planned and we look forward to meeting the atlanta social media community. mashable team members in attendance will include adam ostrow (ed... entertainment evernote updates iphone app with landscape mode and in-app browsing written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago obsessive on-the-go note takers already using evernote on their iphone should check their application updates, because version 2.0 of the app was released today and includes some fantastic improvements. now, on top of the fresher user interface, the ... entertainment social media cartoon: the twitter follower bots written by dharmesh shah almost 11 years ago the social media cartoon is an occasional mashable feature created in partnership with hubspot. ever got a twitter follow notification from a twitter user with a spammy name like "satellite tv for pc"? did you notice they're following thousands of pe... entertainment pandora adds song lyrics written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago hot on the heels of the dust-up surrounding last.fm's decision to charge international users and kill off third party mobile apps, pandora's announcing a welcome and positive change that last.fm's had for a few months - song lyrics. according to thei... entertainment 5 tips for optimizing your brand’s facebook presence written by steve coulson almost 11 years ago steve coulson is a partner at the advance guard, a new media company that creates radical marketing programs using disruptive technologies, community platforms and social media. so – you’ve set up a facebook public profile for yourself, your brand or... tech leapfish offers a faster interface for google search, images, and news written by ben parr almost 11 years ago this post is part of mashable’s spark of genius series, which highlights a unique feature of startups. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. the series is made possible by microsoft bizspark. na... entertainment mashable iphone app launches! written by pete cashmore almost 11 years ago update - this application has been replaced by a new version. please see the post "mashable's official iphone app". mashable is proud to launch the official mashable iphone app . it's a simple concept: you get mashable headlines and tweets right ther... entertainment discovery engine coming to twitter homepage. wait, what twitter homepage? written by stan schroeder almost 11 years ago the folks at twitter are experimenting (on a small set of users) with a new search box that will be added to the sidebar and display search results directly on the homepage. they call it the "discovery engine," although it seems like a redesign and a... entertainment 5 events that have used social media for a good cause written by gradon tripp almost 11 years ago this post was co-authored by gradon tripp and matthew knell, co-organizers of social media for social change, host of the sm4sc nyc fundraiser to benefit city harvest. we've all seen how social media is good for business. it helps build a brand, driv... entertainment is your username taken on social sites? find out with namechk written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago with more and more social sites popping up on the web, your preferred username is becoming directly entangled with your social identify. the reality is that it's becoming a priority to claim your username everywhere. so how do you know if your userna... entertainment oneriot launches twitter search for web pages written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago social search engine oneriot is getting into the trendy business of twitter search, but with a slight twist. instead of listing real-time tweets across twitter for specific queries, oneriot chooses to focus on the pages being dispersed through the mi... entertainment glue lets you browse the web with your facebook and twitter friends written by adam ostrow almost 11 years ago when we first reviewed glue, the browser plugin that connects people looking at similar web content, i wrote that “even moreso than many other services, to be really useful, glue is going to need to have a big-time user base.” that’s because in order... entertainment how to: build your personal brand on facebook written by dan schawbel almost 11 years ago dan schawbel is the author of me 2.0: build a powerful brand to achieve career success (kaplan, april 09), and owner of the award winning personal branding blog. with over 200 million active users, facebook has become a personal, product and corporat... entertainment diggbar: shorten urls and experience digg on any web page written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago if you think digg is great for finding interesting and popular stories on all subject matters across the web, and you're already using any of these 50 tools and resources to get more out of the site, then you're definitely going to enjoy the brand ne... entertainment gmail gets smarter search written by adam ostrow almost 11 years ago one of the main reasons to use gmail over competitive webmail products or a client like outlook is because of its lightning fast search capabilities. today, those capabilities are getting a bit of an upgrade, in the form of auto-complete when searchi... entertainment social weddings: plan and share your wedding on facebook written by jennifer van grove almost 11 years ago this post is part of mashable’s spark of genius series, which highlights a unique feature of startups. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. the series is made possible by microsoft bizspark. co... entertainment social media comments by disqus: public release today! written by pete cashmore almost 11 years ago for the past month, we've provided an exclusive feature on mashable: social media comments. if you tweet about this post, or talk about it on a wide range of social services, from digg to friendfeed and beyond, we'll find those comments and add them ... entertainment is diggbar twitter's new power tool? written by muhammad saleem almost 11 years ago muhammad saleem is a social media consultant and a top-ranked community member on multiple social news sites. you can follow him on twitter when i first heard about the impending launch of the diggbar, i was annoyed more than anything else. the digg ... entertainment thanks to mashable's socially savvy supporters written by tamar weinberg almost 11 years ago thanks to this week’s advertisers and partners for enabling us to bring you the latest social media news and resources. we're particularly inspired by those brands that are engaging with our readers as part of our twitter brand sponsors program: mash... entertainment google street view car blocked in uk town written by stan schroeder almost 11 years ago it may seem funny, or it may seem like a serious privacy problem, but either way you look at it the incidents regarding google's street view are still piling up. as it turns out, people simply don't like the idea of anyone photographing their home, e... entertainment twitter founder biz stone's hilarious colbert interview (video) written by stan schroeder almost 11 years ago stephen colbert is a great fan of twitter. ok, not really. in fact, judging by the latest video interview with twitter's co-founder biz stone, he seems to think it's all a bunch of hot air; or at least he makes it sound that way with a barrage of jok... entertainment a guide to better web-working from your iphone written by elliott kosmicki almost 11 years ago elliott kosmicki is the founder of goodplum.com, a productivity and personal development blog for home business owners. you can also follow elliott on twitter let's get this out of the way first: i used to have a blackberry, i loved it, and have noth... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 11 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.