we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for 2012 entertainment starting a new year's resolution? gympact makes you keep it or pay written by sarah kessler about 8 years ago happy new year! now it's time to drag yourself out of bed, pop some aspirin and get started on that new year's resolution that seemed like such a good idea last night. if that resolution happens to be fitness-related, the good news is there's a new a... entertainment lg releases gorgeous new pics of the world's largest oled screen written by charlie white about 8 years ago korean electronics company lg caused a worldwide stir when it announced its 55-inch oled panel last week, and now the company's rolled out two more pictures that show you what kind of remarkable tv set this is going to be. how groundbreaking is this ... entertainment i resolve: my top 5 new year tech resolutions written by lance ulanoff about 8 years ago this year is going to be different. i resolve to change my ways -- at least my tech ways -- and make the world a better place for me and everyone who knows me. this is my goal. these are my 2012 new year's resolutions. 1) no more one-word email respo... entertainment republican candidates take to the web in the battle for iowa written by alex fitzpatrick about 8 years ago republican presidential hopefuls are turning to the web and social media as weapons in the war to win iowa. on jan. 3, iowa republican caucus-goers will pick their choice for presidential nominee. one of the seven remaining candidates will move a ste... entertainment ios 4.2.1 users are encountering new year alarm issues written by appadvice about 8 years ago if you haven't yet updated your iphone or ipod touch past ios 4.2.1, you'll likely find that alarms set within the built-in clock app aren't working. when this happened last year, we advised readers to delete each alarm and re-add it. however, this y... business 3 new digital tools for making connections written by sarah kessler about 8 years ago the spark of genius series highlights a unique feature of startups and is made possible by microsoft bizspark. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. each weekend, mashable selects startups we th... entertainment 30 best google doodles of 2011 written by christine erickson about 8 years ago this year, more than ever, visiting google's homepage became a bit of a surprise. google doodles have come a long way from the first one, which showed burning man's iconic logo. it's now become customary to the search engine's homepage, and last year... entertainment onepager, a startup making websites easy for small business written by lauren hockenson about 8 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. onepager is a new york city-based startup that provides a simple drag-and-... entertainment what job seekers need to know in today’s digital market written by jindrich liska about 8 years ago jindrich liska is founder and ceo of jobmagic, a leading social recruiting platform which enables employers to hire candidates on facebook, twitter and linkedin. jindrich has pioneered many social recruiting approaches which are now used worldwide by... tech 8 simple digital tools for scanning documents written by stephanie buck about 8 years ago this post originally appeared on the american express open forum, where mashable regularly contributes articles about leveraging social media and technology in small business. small business and startup employees are constantly on the go. they need q... tech top 10 tech this week [pics] written by charlie white about 8 years ago even though the week between christmas and new year's day seems like it might be bereft of technological excitement, those of us at top 10 tech this week discovered that is not the case. much to our surprise, we found more techno-coolness than ever t... entertainment the year in mashable: what it's like inside a fast growing media company, and what to expect in 2012 written by pete cashmore about 8 years ago 2011 was mashable's most successful year to date, growing to 25 million monthly unique visitors and almost 60 staff. we expanded to a spacious new office in new york and hosted 5 successful conferences. growing a company this quickly is both challeng... entertainment facebook timeline doesn't show in internet explorer 7 written by stan schroeder about 8 years ago if you don't like facebook timeline, all you have to do to get rid of it is use internet explorer 7 -- but be prepared for a buggy experience. facebook's latest profile redesign is not visible in ie7, and the company might soon completely phase out s... entertainment mashable weekend recap: 38 stories you may have missed written by charlie white about 8 years ago while most of us shared in the revelry as the ball dropped in times square, some of us mashable staffers just couldn't stop sniffing out news, tips, features and techniques for you, our dear readers. over this weekend, lucky for us, the news cycle ke... entertainment postsecret app discontinued because of 'malicious' posts written by brian anthony hernandez about 8 years ago the secret is out: postsecret has killed off its iphone app just three months after putting it on the market in september. postsecret founder frank warren says abusive content --- pornographic, gruesome and threatening material -- from a small group ... entertainment google launches new site with resources for the 2012 presidential election written by sarah kessler about 8 years ago google will officially announce its online information hub for political elections on monday, a day before the iowa caucuses. it is the first website google has dedicated exclusively to elections. the new website has both egyptian and u.s. editions. ... entertainment samsung galaxy note coming to at&t [rumor] written by stan schroeder about 8 years ago samsung galaxy note might be arriving to u.s. under at&t's wing, according to a photo unearthed by sammobile. in the photo, samsung's tablet/smartphone hybrid is sporting the at&t's logo instead of the regular samsung sign. the device should hit the ... entertainment top 25 most-shared stories in december written by brian anthony hernandez about 8 years ago social media ended 2011 on a high note as facebook rolled out timeline to everyone and twitter unveiled a new design, brand pages and embeddable tweets. but what got your share-happy fingers clicking the most? a story about hilarious auto-corrected t... entertainment reddit's guide to fitness dishes out diet and exercise tips [infographic] written by brian anthony hernandez about 8 years ago if you've made any new year's resolutions to get fit in 2012, this detailed infographic from health-content startup greatist may come in handy on your journey toward a healthier you. the visual guide is packed with information compiled from fittit, t... entertainment 4 big moves google should make in 2012 written by pete pachal about 8 years ago in peeking ahead to predict what 2012 holds for google, it's informative to look back at the eventful year it had. while one can't help but see the big product introductions -- a social network, a mobile-payment system, a music store -- it's the dele... entertainment 6 steps for protecting corporate reputation in the social media age written by layla revis about 8 years ago layla revis is vice president of digital influence at ogilvy pr worldwide. her specialties include international affairs, tourism and multicultural marketing. it takes years to build a good reputation, but seconds to damage it beyond repair, as execu... world 1940 census report goes digital, arrives in april written by samantha murphy kelly about 8 years ago following a 72-year wait period, the national archives and records will release the 1940 u.s. census in april and make the search for information about ancestors easier than ever with free online access from any computer. genealogists will have digit... entertainment rupert murdoch's 'wife' urges him to delete insulting tweet ... and he does [video] written by brian anthony hernandez about 8 years ago we've all been there: you tweet something and then you delete it because you made a typo, included the wrong link or simply just had a change of heart regarding your comment. news corporation chairman and ceo rupert murdoch, who joined twitter on new... entertainment 6 tips for building a high quality blog following written by shane snow about 8 years ago shane snow is a new york-based tech journalist and co-founder of contently.com, a marketplace for brand publishers and journalists. in 2010, new york city startup, birchbox launched a blog about beauty products before it had any customers. the beauty... tech are text messages declining worldwide? [video] written by samantha murphy kelly about 8 years ago it may seem like everyone, everywhere is sending text messages these days. but according to a forbes report, texting may be on the decline across various countries. tero kuittinen, a senior analyst at m.g.i. research, wrote via a blog post for forbes... entertainment 'dark knight rises' parody syncs trailer's audio with 'lion king' scenes [video] written by brian anthony hernandez about 8 years ago each day, mashable highlights one noteworthy youtube video. check out all our viral video picks. the voice-over from the massively popular dark knight rises trailer has been impressively synced with scenes from disney's 1994 smash hit the lion king i... entertainment what will apple announce at its event this month? written by brian anthony hernandez about 8 years ago people close to apple have reportedly spilled the beans on a media-related event that will happen in new york city before january ends. the announcement likely will not involve the ipad 3, apple tv or other interactive television efforts, suggests al... world former british prime minister gordon brown’s email account allegedly hacked written by samantha murphy kelly about 8 years ago london police are investigating an alleged email-hacking case involving former british prime minister gordon brown’s by british newspapers while he served as chancellor under tony blair, according to an independent report. the news comes on the heels... tech steve jobs action figure is eerily realistic [pics] written by samantha murphy kelly about 8 years ago a toy company has set up a promotional page to tout the launch of its steve jobs action figure, showing the tech visionary in a signature black turtle neck, circular rimless glasses and blue jeans. the 12-inch figurine from in icons -– which will sel... u.s. need a kidney? more are turning to facebook [video] written by samantha murphy kelly about 8 years ago facebook is a place to catch up with friends, share articles and information, and now find kidneys. according to news station khou, 36-year-old dan garrett recently received a new kidney after his wife put up a message on facebook looking for a donor... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 598 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.