we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for august 2015 more ios users could find themselves seeing fewer stars and more hearts on twitter. image: ole spata/picture-alliance/dpa/ap images/associated press tech twitter also wants ios users to 'favorite' tweets with hearts instead of stars written by jp mangalindan over 4 years ago twitter extends its 'favorite' experiment to ios users as well as those who use android. image: manu fernandez/associated press tech mozilla lashes out at microsoft, says windows 10 deters user choice written by ronald chavez over 4 years ago mozilla, the company behind the web browser firefox, is accusing microsoft of discouraging users from changing default applications in windows 10. video: youtube, mashable culture face first is the best way to smash a skydiving world record written by jeff leeson over 4 years ago the vertical group skydiving record has been broken because why not. image: mashable, annie park entertainment july's #mashpics show how our community is surviving summer written by annie park over 4 years ago your july #mashpics featured beautiful outdoor weddings, day trips to the shore, cold treats and all of the other things that make summertime so great. world breathtaking photos capture rare blue moon written by brittany levine beckman over 4 years ago friday night's blue moon wasn't blue, but its grandeur still prompted many to look up to the night sky in awe. people from all over the world gawked at the lunar rarity. a blue moon is when two full moons rise in one month and on friday night, we saw... image: ryan mcvay/getty images business inspiring women beat poverty by translating for the sick in hospitals written by matt petronzio over 4 years ago "we help them take their language skills and turn them into something that's marketable in the workforce, which can get them out of poverty permanently." image: mashable, bob al-greene entertainment summer foot stench is 100% preventable, so what's your excuse? written by david yi over 4 years ago you shouldn't have to remove your shoes in a medical quarantine. how to stomp the smell. entertainment 10 delicious watermelon recipes to make all summer long written by chloe bryan over 4 years ago water you waiting for? image: nike entertainment russian lawmaker wants to ban nike's #betrue line because it's 'too gay' written by david yi over 4 years ago he says it's another move to impose "perverted values." in this july 6, 2015, file photo, republican presidential candidate donald trump arrives to a fundraising event at a golf course in the bronx borough of new york. image: seth wenig/associated press business donald trump's billions are hard to verify. why is that? written by jason abbruzzese over 4 years ago $10 billion? $4 billion? $2.9 billion? why can't we figure this out? image: @himmelmargarita on instagram social good 9 hashtags that champion body positivity for all written by katie dupere over 4 years ago we could all use more radical self-love in our lives. a frame from a youtube video shows cecil the lion in hwange, zimbabwe. video: youtube, bryan orford/youtube business cecil the lion cost $55,000 in the trophy hunting economy written by samantha cooney over 4 years ago farmer mick jameson grew up hunting in nebraska, and travelled to south africa for a trophy hunting expedition last year where he shot plain game like deer and ampala. and he’s planning another trip this year. “i took 700 pictures — mostly of wild ga... entertainment 5 ways to look super fly in one perfect pair of culottes written by noelle sciacca over 4 years ago don't be scared of the '80s. you can master the baggy short, too. the teenage sons and daughters of disney's most infamous villains star in disney's &quot;descendants,&quot; which is sort of like &quot;high school musical&quot; plus &quot;once upon a time.&quot; entertainment 81 burning questions inspired by disney's 'descendants' written by hillary busis over 4 years ago are ... are they doing a hip-hop remix of "be our guest?" dave grohl performs onstage in washington, d.c. on july 4. image: nick wass/invision/ap/associated press entertainment dave grohl responds to 1,000 rockers who played 'learn to fly' written by yohana desta over 4 years ago and he does it all in italian. the nest cam makes monitoring your home remotely really simple. image: miles goscha/mashable tech nest cam is a dead easy way to monitor your home remotely written by raymond wong over 4 years ago it doesn't get simpler than this. image: dan brownsword/corbis images culture 10 lifelong games of hide and seek you're definitely losing written by jessye mcgarry over 4 years ago what really did happen to that sock? tech a look at the gorgeous, antiquated technology running the nyc subway written by chris perkins over 4 years ago at more than 100 years old, the new york city subway is one of the oldest in the world. u.s. this aquarium is 82 feet high and has an elevator inside it written by elizabeth pierson over 4 years ago it is so big that it has to be cleaned by divers, three or four times each day. people jump onto a massive 1,000 foot slide. video: youtube, slide the city culture 1,000 foot water slide in nebraska puts your pool party to shame written by yohana desta over 4 years ago and you thought your block parties were cool. this is the look bill nye has while reading dumb tweets. image: bill nye entertainment bill nye reads mean tweets about himself, hilariously shuts down science-hating trolls written by yohana desta over 4 years ago bill nye shuts down some climate change trolls. tech ping pong death robot will teach you to serve (its dystopian needs) written by adario strange over 4 years ago it's all fun and games until robots get bored with ping-pong. culture photographer uses light to capture the motions of musicians written by laura vitto over 4 years ago artist stephen orlando is helping you see sound. protesters gathered on the grass behind westminster to inhale nitrous oxide. image: sam haysom/mashable world protesters gather outside uk parliament for mass nitrous oxide inhalation written by sam haysom over 4 years ago protesters, laughing gas, and lots of colourful balloons. yahoo announced on friday it would acquire fashion-discovery site polyvore. image: polyvore business yahoo buys shopping site polyvore written by jp mangalindan over 4 years ago the tech giant announced friday it will acquire polyvore, the fashion-discovery site founded in 2007. michael b. jordan and kate mara have laugh on the show the set of 'despierta america' on jul. 31. image: gustavo caballero entertainment 'fantastic four' stars awkwardly laugh off offensive interview questions written by yohana desta over 4 years ago in which an interviewer compliments kate mara's toes. image: niall carson/associated press business uber is reportedly getting $100 million from microsoft written by adario strange over 4 years ago uber is now uber-funded. ian mcshane, seen here attending a premiere in 2014, is heading to westros. image: juan naharro gimenez/getty images entertainment ian mcshane is coming to 'game of thrones' in a secret role written by sandra gonzalez over 4 years ago what is his "mystery" role? entertainment art exhibit watches you breathe and builds you a light show written by johnny simon over 4 years ago tucked into a small gallery space in downtown manhattan, there’s a big ball of light than knows how you breathe. image: jimmy collins/corbis world empire state building will host light show of endangered animals written by livescience over 4 years ago getting people to pay attention to a huge, global problem is easier when you have an enormous billboard at your disposal. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 86 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.