we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for june 2012 business meet buyou, a one-stop shopping mall for ipads written by veena bissram almost 8 years ago the spark of genius series highlights a unique feature of startups and is made possible by microsoft bizspark. if you would like to have your startup considered for inclusion, please see the details here. name: buyou quick pitch: buyou is a virtual m... entertainment avoid dirty beaches with swim guide app written by kate freeman almost 8 years ago a newly released app called the swim guide directs users to the closest and cleanest beaches. water quality data is sourced from government agencies to provide user information on the water cleanliness for more than 300 california beaches. created by... entertainment milky way galaxy doomed to head-on crash with andromeda written by space.com almost 8 years ago four billion years from now, the milky way galaxy as we know it will cease to exist. our milky way is bound for a head-on collision with the similar-sized andromeda galaxy, researchers announced today (may 31). over time, the huge galactic smashup wi... entertainment network of homeless newspapers tries qr-code digital edition written by joann pan almost 8 years ago since 1994, the international network of street papers (insp) has worked with the homeless to sell locally produced newspapers or magazines as a way for them to earn a decent living. the glasgow, scotland-based non-profit helps journalists set up wee... entertainment windows 8 release preview and two other stories you need to know written by stan schroeder almost 8 years ago welcome to this morning’s edition of “first to know,” a series in which we keep you in the know on what’s happening in the digital world. today, we’re looking at three particularly interesting stories. microsoft launches windows 8 release preview as ... entertainment 5 content marketing lessons from obama written by joseph lazauskas almost 8 years ago joe lazauskas is the co-founder and cco of faster times media, a content studio and consultancy that helps businesses create exceptional articles, videos, blogs, and social media updates. say hello on twitter @joelazauskas or via email at joe@thefast... entertainment google now warns about censored links in china written by stan schroeder almost 8 years ago google has started notifying users in china when they use search terms that are censored by the chinese government, the company announced on its official blog. when a user in china types such a keyword into google's chinese search site, a warning wil... entertainment rejoice! now you can use a banana as a keyboard written by christine erickson almost 8 years ago tired of your boring keyboard? two final-year phd students at mit have created a contraption that will jazz up your online life a bit. the makey makey is an invention kit that turns everyday objects into touchpads. the project was launched on kicksta... entertainment buy a windows 7 pc, get windows 8 pro upgrade for $15 written by stan schroeder almost 8 years ago microsoft has announced a windows 8 upgrade program for customers who purchase a windows 7-based pc from june 2012 until february 2013. starting tomorrow in 131 markets, including the u.s., consumers who buy a windows pc pre-installed with windows 7 ... entertainment teen entrepreneur's search engine is built for a higher purpose written by lauren drell almost 8 years ago the world at work is powered by ge. this new series highlights the people, projects and startups that are driving innovation and making the world a better place. name: benelab big idea: benelab, founded by seattle teenager jack kim, is a search engin... entertainment sign up to be a friend's designated driver on facebook [video] written by psfk almost 8 years ago brian g. cheung and vanessa krchova from the miami ad school created a social media solution called ‘smirnoff guardians‘. the idea is for a facebook campaign, which adds a ‘safe ride’ option next to the like and comment features under posts, allowing... entertainment cops nab brooklyn burglars after friending them on facebook written by the daily dot almost 8 years ago brooklyn police have cracked down on a criminal gang with a new kind of informant: the facebook friend. officer michael rodrigues, who works the crown heights beat, needed evidence on a gang that was burglarizing homes with seeming impunity. so he si... entertainment 5 ways mobile tech can improve your health written by edna boone almost 8 years ago edna boone is the senior director of mhimss, the mobile health initiative behind himss, the non-profit devoted to the improvement of health through technology. join the mhimss linkedin group, and follow her @mhimss. just a decade ago, if someone had ... entertainment this photo uses every single instagram filter written by the atlantic almost 8 years ago how many steps does it take to go from thomas kinkade to mark rothko? eighteen, it turns out -- at least if the image you're using is a photo, and the tool you're using is instagram. the belgian blog appelogen decided to find out what would happen if... entertainment how to play 'diablo iii' while cuddling your boo written by matt silverman almost 8 years ago life is suffering. on one hand, you and your significant other really want to play diablo iii. on the other hand, you just want to stay snuggled up in a warm embrace. reddit user mountcleverest has found a solution that should eradicate this emotiona... entertainment why startups need to hustle [video] written by jesse draper almost 8 years ago jesse draper is creator and host of the valley girl show, through which she's become a spokesperson for startups and helped pioneer the way of new media content distribution. formerly a nickelodeon star, draper is now ceo of valley girl‚ where she ov... entertainment marilyn monroe to return to the stage as a hologram written by tecca almost 8 years ago it looks like a marilyn monroe fan's best friend isn't diamonds... but recent advancements in holographic technology. according to the hollywood reporter, a company called digicon media is planning to bring the deceased icon back on stage as a hologr... entertainment do you suffer from these 4 tech afflictions? written by matt petronzio almost 8 years ago quick: how many devices do you have on-hand at this very moment? how often have you checked your social media accounts in the last hour? when was the last time you played a video game? the answers to these questions may seem inconsequential, but tech... entertainment shazam predicts summer's 10 most-popular songs written by brian anthony hernandez almost 8 years ago music-identification service shazam has taken its users' tagging data -- the number of times people use the mobile app to find out the name or artist of a song they hear -- to predict this summer's most-popular songs. shazam's director of music, will... entertainment country music: the next social media frontier written by christine erickson almost 8 years ago many assume the stereotypical image of a country music fan as someone from a rural area who is less tech-savvy, but according to billboard, that's not the case. two out of four people buying new technology are country fans. the study also discovered ... entertainment clever public service announcement addresses online privacy [video] written by christine erickson almost 8 years ago the need for internet anonymity has been hotly debated since the world wide web took form in the early 1990s. today, social media and more widespread usage of technology have contributed to greater transparency around online identities. while this al... entertainment 35 action photos that will give you whiplash written by jeremy cabalona almost 8 years ago one of the purposes of photography is to capture a moment in time. for instance, a portrait preserves a person's likeness. a scenic landscape shot encapsulates the environment around you. and an action shot freezes reality for dramatic effect. this w... entertainment sheryl sandberg jumps for joy [pic] written by kate freeman almost 8 years ago facebook's stock may be dropping -- as of friday afternoon, it was at $27.52, down nearly $10 from its opening price -- but sheryl sandberg is feeling light as a feather. sandberg, the social network's coo, updated her facebook timeline cover photo f... entertainment social media companies: a cheat sheet [infographic] written by chris taylor almost 8 years ago so you're new to this whole social media thing. maybe you're savvy enough to know your facebook from your twitter, your pinterest from your spotify. but what about tagged? xing? futubra? where do they fit into the social media ecosystem? just learnin... entertainment texting teen driver goes on trial for homicide [video] written by joann pan almost 8 years ago the trial of a teenage driver who crashed into a truck while allegedly texting and driving is underway -- and it could have major implications for future texting-while-driving crimes. on feb. 20, 2011, aaron deveau, then 17, from haverhill, mass., co... entertainment u.s. launched its biggest cyberattack from a thumb drive written by pete pachal almost 8 years ago the u.s. and israel were responsible for creating the stuxnet computer worm that wreaked havoc with iranian nuclear facilities, later spreading to the internet in 2010. that's according to a report from the new york times, since confirmed by other ne... entertainment why reporting is ripe for innovation written by vadim lavrusik almost 8 years ago vadim is the journalist program manager at facebook and a professor at the columbia university graduate school of journalism. subscribe to him here. disclaimer: a robot did not write this. neither did an algorithm. as has been done for centuries, a h... tech do e-reader owners read more books? [infographic] written by samantha murphy kelly almost 8 years ago u.s. consumers with an e-reader or tablet are more likely to read and buy books than those without an e-book compatible tech device, a new infographic suggests. an infographic released by infographic labs cites a pew study finding that those who read... entertainment spider-cat defies gravity [video] written by christine erickson almost 8 years ago cats tend to be sneaky animals, always getting into mischief. seven year-old piggy, however, appears to have superpower strength that allows her to climb down the fridge. think about the kind of trouble she could get into. see also: cats in space: th... entertainment mashable photo challenge: homegrown written by jeremy cabalona almost 8 years ago as technology advances and our lives get busier, the desire to make our lives more convenient grows stronger. with the rise and rapid evolution of smartphones, everyday tasks that used to require physical action now frequently need just the touch of ... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 53 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.