we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for march 2012 entertainment the titanic app for ipad arrives march 12 written by appadvice about 8 years ago commemorating the 100th anniversary of the sinking of the ship, the titanic app is getting ready to set sail into the app store. the ipad app, created by britain's the history press, arrives on march 12. since her maiden voyage sinking on april 14, 1... entertainment 'hunger games' wants you to tweet for advanced screening tickets written by samantha murphy kelly about 8 years ago lionsgate announced a campaign wednesday for fans of the hunger games to unlock free advanced screenings of the upcoming film by tweeting specific hashtags related to their nearby cities. to generate buzz for the upcoming film, the studio launched th... tech dolphin mobile browser gets voice-control feature for android written by samantha murphy kelly about 8 years ago dolphin browser for mobile devices received a voice-control feature on wednesday for android users, allowing them to search the web with just their voices. the new feature -- called dolphin sonar -- allows you to open new tabs by speaking to the brow... entertainment google's new privacy policy goes into effect today written by stan schroeder about 8 years ago the recent major changes in google's privacy policy go into effect today, march 1. in january, google announced a new master privacy policy that replaces more than 70 different documents and governs all of google's products. google promises the new d... entertainment traveling dog owner? meet the airbnb for dogs written by sarah kessler about 8 years ago leaving your dog at a kennel can be heartbreaking, and asking a friend to dog-sit can feel intrusive. so what is a traveling dog owner to do? a new site called dog vacay hopes you'll instead find a local home for your dog while you're away. on thursd... entertainment we now watch less live tv, but more programming thanks to dvrs [study] written by mashable video about 8 years ago of the three major devices we connect to our tvs -- gaming consoles, dvrs and dvd players -- dvrs get by far the most use. while we're watching less live tv than a few years ago, we now watch a full 19 minutes more per year of programming, just on ou... entertainment what a windows 7 user needs to know about windows 8 written by tecca about 8 years ago with windows 8 hovering on the not-so-distant horizon, there's been plenty of curiosity about microsoft's newest operating system. after previewing an early version of windows 8, we've now had a chance to use microsoft's consumer preview and have a f... entertainment former drudge report editor andrew breitbart has died written by todd wasserman about 8 years ago andrew breitbart, a former editor of drudge report who also helped launch the huffington post, has died. breitbart's website, big government, announced the news thursday morning. "with a terrible feeling of pain and loss we announce the passing of an... entertainment flipboard updates ipad app, launches french edition written by lauren indvik about 8 years ago as promised, social newsreading magazine flipboard is bringing cover stories to its ipad app via an update released thursday. the feature, which was first launched on flipboard's app for iphone and ipod touch devices, pulls up stories that are determ... entertainment sell your instagram photos online with hashpix written by sarah kessler about 8 years ago instagram photos have evolved into an art form, and now they have an art dealer. a site launching thursday called hashpix sells prints of instagram photos on behalf of their creators. to sell on the site, photographers need to apply. it's starting ou... entertainment seti live: how you can help find alien civilizations on your pc written by pete pachal about 8 years ago got some spare time today? how about putting aside that game of bejeweled blitz and instead lend a hand in what could be the most important discovery of all time? it's no joke -- the people behind the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (seti) p... entertainment buy frito-lay snacks, get free items in zynga games written by todd wasserman about 8 years ago bridging the online and offline worlds, zynga has inked a deal with frito-lay that rewards buyers of snacks such as lay's classic potato chips and doritos with virtual items. the items apply to three zynga games -- farmville, castleville and cityvill... entertainment social networks make you 'entrepreneur of your own life': linkedin founder written by adam ostrow about 8 years ago long beach, calif. -- you may not be shocked to learn the founder of linkedin thinks the key to career success is understanding the dynamics of networks and how to leverage them to your benefit. but reid hoffman took that truism a step further at ted... entertainment google privacy: 5 things the tech giant does with your data written by christine erickson about 8 years ago google's new privacy policy went into effect thursday, and after hacking through the document and comparing it to the old policies, two things are apparent -- the document has been re-crafted with a strong emphasis on mobile and cross-platform sharin... entertainment instagram upgrades to much faster camera, heads to asia written by zoe fox about 8 years ago instagram's latest update boasts a faster camera and support for china's sina weibo and japan's mixi. the new camera option is impressively fast. instagram now shows an instant preview while it saves the image. previously, users such as myself would ... entertainment welcome to facebook timeline, president obama written by alex fitzpatrick about 8 years ago facebook timeline just got the presidential seal of approval: barack obama enabled the new profile design thursday morning. visitors to obama's timeline are greeted with a smiling photo of the president alongside his cover photo, a graph often shared... entertainment prepare to share objects from miles away with microsoft kinect trick [video] written by alissa skelton about 8 years ago microsoft has a cutting edge prototype that may soon bring the virtual and physical worlds together and shorten the distance felt between people video chatting from miles apart. at microsoft's techforum 2012, the company showed mashable and a handful... entertainment 13 lytro photos that will make you look twice written by pete pachal about 8 years ago now the lytro camera is here, you no longer have to worry about taking out-of-focus pictures -- you can shoot first, and then pick what to focus on later. that signature feature is much more than just a convenience. it allows you to tell stories in a... entertainment vh1 and foursquare team up to 'save the music' written by christina warren about 8 years ago foursquare and vh1 are teaming up to offer music lovers a way to help "save the music" when checking in to assorted music venues. starting today, fans that follow vh1 on foursquare can earn a special limited edition vh1 save the music badge. all fans... entertainment the most viral news sources on twitter and facebook [infographic] written by lauren indvik about 8 years ago the bbc, the huffington post and the guardian are the three most viral news sources on facebook and twitter, according to a new report. the rankings, compiled by dublin-based newswhip, were determined by the number of stories that received more than ... entertainment facebook introduces real-time analytics for pages written by todd wasserman about 8 years ago facebook plans to roll out analytics that will for the first time give page administrators visibility about real-time activity on the site. the addition to pages insights is expected to roll out over the next few weeks, a rep from the company says. t... entertainment how to animate your google+ profile written by amy-mae elliott about 8 years ago we have previously highlighted some really striking animated google+ profile pages. now we're showing you how you can make your own animated profile with a simple online tool. while some google+ users have highlighted their methodology, and inmotion ... entertainment justin bieber turns birthdays into social good holidays written by zoe fox about 8 years ago justin bieber, pop megastar and social media maven, turns 18 today. to celebrate his birthday, bieber announced on twitter wednesday night that he'd be giving up his birthday for charity: water. this is the second-consecutive year bieber has asked hi... business 10 ways to optimize your ecommerce site for google search written by stacey politi about 8 years ago ecommerce websites have several inherent qualities -- shallow copy, duplicate content and a large product catalog -- that make it challenging to achieve a high google ranking. but there are some best practices you can employ, in addition to tradition... entertainment twitter users help plan a wedding after hired planners folded [video] written by alissa skelton about 8 years ago twitter came to the rescue for an engaged uk couple whose hired wedding event company folded just six weeks before their big day. lauren lane and daniel welch lost their nearly $7,000 deposit and all of the details that had been planned. lane tweeted... entertainment whole foods debuts kinect-powered shopping carts [video] written by psfk about 8 years ago microsoft has demonstrated an early prototype of a kinect-powered shopping cart, which is being developed for whole foods by texas-based company chaotic moon. the project is called the “smarter cart” and it uses a tablet and scanners to read the item... entertainment now cops can search cellphones found at crime scenes written by alex fitzpatrick about 8 years ago police in the u.s. can legally search mobile phones discovered at the scene of a crime, a federal appeals court has ruled. after police in indiana discovered a batch of cellphones at the site of a drug bust, they did some digital sleuthing and search... entertainment zynga launches platform for non-facebook gaming written by todd wasserman about 8 years ago zynga is trying to diversify beyond its signature facebook games. zynga.com will no longer be just its corporate website -- it will also be a platform that features the company's most popular games as well as titles by other publishers. the site, whi... entertainment 20 infamous crimes committed and solved on facebook [infographic] written by alissa skelton about 8 years ago criminals might be taking to the web, but police are meeting them there. facebook has proved to be a powerful tool for law enforcement to locate criminal activity. all facebook communication leaves a trail, which can come in handy when police need to... entertainment social networks and mobile games get a place to hook up written by chelsea stark about 8 years ago social game distributor viximo announced a platform called social zone that will allow mobile game developers to simply integrate social media features into their games. social zone works with apis of the players' social networks, allowing them to in... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 44 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.