we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for february 2020 zuck knows he's going to 'piss off a lot of people.' image: alex wong / getty images tech here's what mark zuckerberg really meant by being 'understood' written by karissa bell about 2 months ago "this is the new approach and i think it's going to piss off a lot of people." google's latest doodle comes from a photograph of collin's diorama. image: google social good google doodle honors 60th anniversary of greensboro sit-in written by natasha piñon about 2 months ago "i hope that when people see this doodle, at the start of black history month, they are inspired to learn more about the sit-in, the movement, and all the stories of black resilience that helped shape the world we live in today." a two-year subscription to purevpn is on sale for £2.22 per month. image: pexels tech safeguard your online privacy with purevpn written by joseph green about 2 months ago newsflash: privacy matters. tech 8 of the most in-demand programming skills and the online courses to learn them written by robert anderson about 2 months ago learn to code. save time and money by making your own coffee at home. image: frank de paula culture lay off the starbucks — these coffee makers are all on sale this weekend written by veronika kero about 2 months ago never wait in line again. nearly 300 lessons are included. image: pexels culture 5 skills that can help you turn your marketing clout into a side business written by veronika kero about 2 months ago work towards making your dream job a reality. tech this canless air duster is about to change your life written by veronika kero about 2 months ago clean your electronics in an environmentally-friendly way. gift yourself a professional setup. image: offex entertainment gamer to gamer, here's why you need the right chair (and desk) written by veronika kero about 2 months ago game like a pro with these 10 deals. joe keery in 'spree.' image: sundance institute entertainment what this year's sundance movies taught us about going viral written by angie han about 2 months ago what 'miss americana,' 'zola,' 'us kids,' and more tell us about modern internet culture. tech how google assistant changed my bedtime routine written by brenda stolyar about 2 months ago sweet dreams, google. image: denys prykhodov / shutterstock tech twitter's ios app now visibly threads together replies written by adam rosenberg about 2 months ago the new update makes twitter's dumpster fire easier to follow. lebron james speaks during the los angeles lakers pregame ceremony to honor kobe bryant. image: harry how / getty images entertainment lebron james, l.a. lakers pay tribute to kobe and gianna bryant written by proma khosla about 2 months ago “i look at this as a celebration tonight,” said lebron james. roku users were previously told that they wouldn't be able to stream fox after january 2020, but a new deal extends the two companies' contract just in time for the super bowl. image: shutterstock / ii.studio entertainment yes, you'll be able to watch the super bowl on your roku written by proma khosla about 2 months ago what a roller coaster. culture watch this very smart dog climb over a freaking fence written by proma khosla about 2 months ago we couldn't do that even with opposable thumbs. tech lyft will offer free rides for voters during the 2020 primaries written by alison foreman about 2 months ago 5 stars for democracy. entertainment quibi debuts a tense teaser for the fake news-ified reboot of 'the fugitive' written by proma khosla about 2 months ago but can any man outrun the spread of misinformation in modern times?? "one or more wireless carriers apparently violated federal law." image: olly curtis/future via getty images tech fcc confirms wireless carriers broke federal law by selling location data written by alison foreman about 2 months ago "this is certainly a step in the right direction." "with a teal platypus." image: vevo / disney channel entertainment watch dr. doofenshmirtz of 'phineas and ferb' sing the hell out of 'bad guy' written by alison foreman about 2 months ago 🎵with a teal platypus 🎵 entertainment a custom xbox add-on turns your power wheelchair into a controller written by adam rosenberg about 2 months ago we all win when more people have the opportunity to play games. you won't need a request to deny requests. image: amazon tech amazon's ring will now allow users to opt out of all police video requests written by alison foreman about 2 months ago the news comes after weeks of bad press for the system. *actual pigs may vary. image: mark cuthbert/uk press via getty images social good do you want to cuddle pigs? this animal sanctuary needs your help. written by alison foreman about 2 months ago "we need piggy cuddlers!" a two-year subscription to tunnelbear is on sale for £3.18 per month. image: pexels tech tunnelbear lets you browse and stream securely written by joseph green about 2 months ago you can rely on those bears. taxes: tackled. image: h&r block business got a side gig? save $25 and let an h&r block expert answer your tax q’s written by ruby lambie about 2 months ago if your side hustle is (finally) making money — kudos! the only downside is that your taxes just got a lot more complicated. 'pandemic: how to prevent an outbreak' provides important context amid the spread of coronavirus. image: netflix entertainment 'pandemic' doctors break down what the netflix series can (and can't) tell us about coronavirus written by alison foreman about 2 months ago and respond to *that* conspiracy theory. entertainment donald trump impeachment gets the fantasy do-over on 'snl' written by adam rosenberg about 2 months ago what the actual f....? entertainment 'frozen 2' deleted scenes hype a *very* different movie on 'snl' written by adam rosenberg about 2 months ago we all know, we all know.... entertainment j.j. watt is the voice of reason in an 'snl' spin on 'rudy' written by adam rosenberg about 2 months ago does robbie have what it takes? no he does not. entertainment j.j. watt learns the financial reality of pizza delivery guy porn on 'snl' written by adam rosenberg about 2 months ago someone has to pay for all that pizza. entertainment horny dad j.j. watt reminds us the 'sex talk' is always awkward as hell written by annie colbert about 2 months ago *fingers in ears* lalalalalalalalala mr. peanut dabs at the shorty awards on april 23, 2017, in new york city. image: chance yeh / wireimage / getty images culture the mr. peanut ad saga is a strange byproduct of the internet's death obsession written by tim marcin about 2 months ago brands going dark doesn't always work. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 39 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.