we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for january 2008 entertainment mashable: a top elite blog for 2007 written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago in my humble opinion, mashable is a pretty great blog, so we're happy to accept the recognition from elitechoice.org, which has lined up 125 of its favorite blogs of 2007. the site has named mashable an elite blog for social networking news. among th... entertainment battelle's 2008: no time for hippie advertisers written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins about 12 years ago john battelle posted his predictions for 2008 today, and focused primarily on advertising. thankfully, contrary to most of the media's dismal projections for the economy and advertising, he remained optimistic for the future of the web and how we'll ... entertainment google page rank gone awry: artificially inflating search results written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago google has been indexing pages faster in what looks like an attempt to provide some semblance of real time search queries on particular topics, and while this has become more than evident today, it's also raising some serious questions on google's pr... entertainment bloggies: nominate mashable written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins about 12 years ago could our humble mashable community be in the running for a coveted bloggie award? with your help, yes! the nominations phase of the bloggies has begun. if you like mashable and can spare a few seconds, please go to this page and nominate us in as ma... entertainment 20+ resources for homebrew games written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago homebrewing is the tradition of video game enthusiasts trying to crack their various gaming platforms and getting them to do things the designers did not originally intend. for the really adventurous out there, you can also start to learn about makin... entertainment saudi blogger arrested for political web content written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago the middle east has had quite a time with legal issues surrounding the use of free speech in regards to the web and other publications, along with a handful of other countries around the globe. this is emphasized today with the confirmed detention of... entertainment the end of the music industry in 2008 written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins about 12 years ago perhaps i'm searching for validation for my sweeping hyperbole about the "death" of the music industry associations, or perhaps the writing on the wall i'm reading is in a language that others can understand as well. either way, the pro-artist and pr... entertainment 20+ mobile internet applications written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago 2008 is the year of the mobile internet, right? we hear that every year. let's forget about predictions and focus on what's available right now. we bring you over 20 mobile internet applications that you'll actually use. bookmarking mobiseer.com - fi... entertainment io9 - a blog for all you sci-fi fans written by stan schroeder about 12 years ago if you're geek at heart, like most of us here at mashable are, you gotta appreciate science fiction just a little bit. having started my sf geekdom career with a pinch of stanislaw lem and clifford simak, continuing with a whole lot of gibson and ste... entertainment whiskipedia - where alcoholics go to know written by stan schroeder about 12 years ago oh, man, the jokes just keep on coming. whiskipedia - as the name implies - is encyclopedia of booze; more precisely, whisky, but it covers all alcoholic beverages. unfortunately, currently it kinda sucks. the form is familiarly wikipedian, but the c... entertainment mp3.com meets digg: find new music on sixtyone written by stan schroeder about 12 years ago here's a digg-like site that actually sounds interesting for a change. it's a music repository; a place where lesser known musicians can upload their songs for everyone to hear (or buy; all songs are drm-free). but, instead of being just a directory ... entertainment web 2.0 marketplace listings for january 2nd, 2008 written by pete cashmore about 12 years ago the web 2.0 marketplace is a place to list web 2.0 and “new media” websites for sale, job offers, consulting services, facebook development services and more. new listings social platform developer (facebook & opensocial) web 2.0 start-up is looking ... entertainment japanese prime minister becomes youtuber written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins about 12 years ago first, the american presidential candidates, then (reportedly) the outgoing australian prime minister. then the queen of british empire. now the japanese prime minister. it seems now anyone who is anyone is posting videos to youtube. today, japanese ... entertainment fohboh. business networking for restaurants. written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago fohboh is a new social network that's been launched for the business individuals involved in the restaurant industry. if you're involved with this sector, you'll recognize foboh as standing for front of the house and back of the house, which refers t... entertainment twitter: what's the best business model? written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins about 12 years ago while the tech blogosphere has been gearing up for the post holiday rush of news, it has yet to have descended upon us. as such, we've all been seemingly enraptured by allen stern's question today: is twitter f'd? many from the so-called "a-list" hav... entertainment confirmed: wikia search to launch on monday written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins about 12 years ago the rumored "google-killer" wikia search will be available in alpha form soon, according to an email to the wikia search mailing list by jimmy wales. the email was sent december 24th, and states that monday, the first public preview of the new search... entertainment meet perez hilton at twiistup 3 with a discount! written by adam hirsch about 12 years ago previously announced twiistup 3 is only several weeks away and approaching fast. twiistup 3, which will be held on january 16th in venice, ca, will be focusing on “new year’s resolutions.” sources tell us that none other than perez hilton, a fellow f... entertainment jay-z: i'm not with the corporate tool, i'm with apple written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins about 12 years ago the boy genius report is carrying a nice bit of exclusive news today they claim to have confirmed: jay-z is launching a record label with apple. this comes hot on the heels of his departure from def jam as president of the label last month, and specu... entertainment determinedtoquit smoking? get a fix here. written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago i'm not sure about the rest of the country, but chicago officially became a smoke-free city yesterday, jan. 1, 2008. whether or not this will help motivate smokers to quit, i also wouldn't know, but a site launched in pennsylvania could be helpful fo... entertainment buddy media acquires five popular facebook apps written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago buddy media, a facebook application development company, has acquired five facebook applications from chipin, inc. marking another deal for the company, weeks after taking on crushes. within the network owned by chipin, there are a reported 150+ mill... entertainment iowa state presidential primary: online caucus coverage written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins about 12 years ago the holidays are wrapping up, the gloves are about to come back off, and we're going to see the political invective and high-energy campaigning kick up a notch here in the next few days, especially in the early primary states. the first state to be p... entertainment throwaway email: the pirate bay's slopsbox written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins about 12 years ago the pirate bay has launched an interesting new side project called slopsbox, a service that ensures that your spam and identity protection needs will be taken care of simultaneously. the service is particularly useful for all sorts of purposes. one t... entertainment wsj: tear down that wall written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins about 12 years ago there was much rejoicing in the new media in 2007 when the indicators of the last paywall would be coming down. in fact, if memory serves, several applications of president reagan's "tear down that wall" quote were made. that is somewhat understandab... entertainment bang ventures: glamorizing tech ceos? written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago bang ventures isn't a way to get funding for your startup, but it is the latest to launch a resource for entrepreneurs hoping to make it big in the web 2.0 game. its differentiating factor? go after the ideas, not the programmers, according to ventur... entertainment chacha launches text search: better with humans on the other end? written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago chacha, the search engine that's backed by amazon's jeff bezos, is getting ready to launch another branch of its search tool: textchacha. as you all know, chacha's claim to fame is the actual humans behind its search tool that will chat with you as i... entertainment 5min gets $5 million for diy video network written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago 5min has appropriately raised $5 million in a series a financing round from spark capital. the how-to video site has been quietly growing in a sector we haven't seen much activity in lately, outside of some niche developments particularly geared for ... entertainment closet assistant is no help to my wardrobe written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago closet assistant is a new website that's supposed to help you create outfits based on what you already own, similar to grouprecipes that helps you figure out what to eat based on the food that's already in your kitchen pantry. that's what it's suppos... entertainment netflix streaming to your tv? i'm not sold yet. written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago in case you needed another company to choose from when selecting your next set top box for streaming internet video content directly into your 50" hdtv, consider netflix. the dvd rental king is making another somewhat preemptive strike in the movie r... entertainment learn how to type faster with these 8 sites written by sean p. aune about 12 years ago as some of the readers (and editors) of my articles will attest to, my typing skills leave something to be desired. while i use all of the fingers of my right hand, i only use the index finger of my left. yep, i'm a horrible typist, and i won't even ... entertainment twittertale tells on you, for every naughty word! written by kristen nicole about 12 years ago if you happen to be a pottymouth as well as an avid twitter user, you'll rejoice for twitertale, the site that tells on you every time you use a bad word. and it's fast, too! just before beginning my review of twittertale, i updated my own twitter ac... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 24 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.