we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for april 2017 no shady browsing here. nope. none at all. image: patrick lux/getty images tech major isps now say they won't sell your browsing history. yeah. right. written by jack morse almost 3 years ago uh, no. this is the end -- or is it? image: nbc entertainment what happened to our 'grimm' favorites after the series finale? written by laura prudom almost 3 years ago the 'grimm' creators break down that epilogue and a potential spinoff. image: mashable tech mashtalk: samsung's galaxy s8 is here, but does it live up to all the hype? written by raymond wong almost 3 years ago one thing's for sure: it looks hot af. the host of the popular youtube channel 'what's up moms' was one of the first enlistees in amazon's new influencer program. image: screenshot business amazon is recruiting social media celebrities to start their own stores on its site written by patrick kulp almost 3 years ago calling all influencers. image: ambar del moral / mashable entertainment we don't need april fools' day anymore because we're living a fake news nightmare written by rachel thompson almost 3 years ago don't add to the problem. image: mashable composite, getty images culture 5 pages from 'the art of the deal' that explain exactly what trump's doing written by max knoblauch almost 3 years ago oh wow, now it makes sense why he's doing things this way. culture never gonna give you up: the surprising resilience of the rickroll, 10 years later written by chloe bryan almost 3 years ago as the rickroll nears its 10th birthday, we celebrate the meme that just won't go away. tech 4 tech tips to epically prank your friends on april fools' day written by jessica leibowitz almost 3 years ago the best way to mess with your friends: mess with their phones. tech the first zero emissions ship looks pretty badass written by tara flanigan almost 3 years ago coming to a port near you. world homeless? starving? cheer up! these great depression billboards told poor americans how lucky they were written by alex arbuckle almost 3 years ago the national association of manufacturers erected thousands of billboards to convince the poor that america was already great. culture april fools' day pranks to play on your gullible kids written by sam speedy almost 3 years ago because they have to learn sometime. the sword-billed hummingbird, the only bird in the world with a beak longer than its body, looks even better than this in 4x blu-ray. image: bbc earth entertainment 'planet earth ii' is the best 4k blu-ray ever made written by chris taylor almost 3 years ago seriously, this one's worth it. culture fancy cats make their owners give them food by ringing bells written by sam speedy almost 3 years ago where's the bell for more of this content? are campaign speeches that different from award shows? image: buchan/variety/rex/shutterstock entertainment george takei joked about running for congress but we want it to be real written by proma khosla almost 3 years ago fast-track this campaign at warp speed, mr. sulu! business all the terrible april fools pranks brands want you to laugh at this year written by emma hinchliffe almost 3 years ago petlexa, #getmono and more. snapchat is the only funny app. image: steve meddle/rex/shutterstock business snapchat drags instagram so hard with its april fools' day filter written by emma hinchliffe almost 3 years ago 😂😂😂 world 1937: alabama farmers find community in a good old-fashioned square dance written by alex arbuckle almost 3 years ago once-itinerant farmers build a sense of place on a cooperative settlement. image: google tech okay, fine fine, google's april fool's day pranks are pretty great this year, here are all of them written by adario strange almost 3 years ago you will know the face of fake technology, and its name is google on april fools' day. when ur face is laughing but ur soul is crying image: shutterstock / uber images entertainment 12 tweets that simultaneously drag april fools and the trump presidency written by proma khosla almost 3 years ago the ultimate prank is our reality!!! image: paramount, oculus entertainment 'ghost in the shell' vr, like the film, misses opportunity to be great written by adario strange almost 3 years ago paramount's oculus vr release puts you in the mind of a cyborg in a futuristic city, but like the film, the experience doesn't live up to its anime roots. russia's got jokes!!! image: spencer platt/getty images world even russia's got jokes on april fools' day. oh, and they're about the election. written by emma hinchliffe almost 3 years ago hilarious! will david find his famous father in 'legion' season 2? image: michelle faye entertainment will we see professor x in 'legion' season 2? written by laura prudom almost 3 years ago there's still a lot to discover about david haller and his family. "i need to say something." image: drew angerer/getty images culture things we wish our pets could say written by samantha scelzo almost 3 years ago please...talk to us. image: max whittaker/getty images tech elon musk's rant on aliens and chemtrails is your april fools' day science treat written by adario strange almost 3 years ago aliens and chemtrails finally linked to spacex! april fools! april fools! image: shutterstock / fizkes business pornhub scares everyone to death with its terrifying april fools' day prank written by emma hinchliffe almost 3 years ago thanks for sharing! tech new app will finally let you be your best emoji self written by proma khosla almost 3 years ago memoji adds that emoji flair to your pictures. image: rewind tech tech hipster augmented reality monocles are coming, this prank proves it written by adario strange almost 3 years ago skinny jeans? check. beard? check. mixed reality monocle? coming soon! business people applied to work for hub, a fake startup whose smart home device doesn't do anything written by emma hinchliffe almost 3 years ago 'the ultimate iot smart device.' entertainment new 'pirates of the caribbean' trailer finally shows us orlando bloom's return written by adario strange almost 3 years ago the gang's all back together now. image: shutterstock / nito culture 4 april fools' day pranks that went horribly wrong and i am so sorry written by tyler schmall almost 3 years ago these did not go well. ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 83 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.