we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk archives 2005 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2006 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2007 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2008 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2009 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2010 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2011 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2012 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2013 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2014 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2015 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2016 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2017 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2018 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2019 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 2020 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec archives for november 2008 entertainment web development toolbox: 120+ new tools for web development written by cameron chapman over 11 years ago last year we did a post on web development tools. a lot has changed in the past year, and there are tons of new tools available to developers. options include drag-and-drop application builders, code repositories, project management and testing apps,... entertainment how the netbook will convert the anti-cloud computing crowd written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago don’t think cloud computing is a wonderful thing? wait until everyone and their mother has a netbook in hand. yeah, you know, those small wi-fi-happy machines sporting 8-13” screens, flash-based storage drives, intel atom central processors, etcetera... entertainment low mobile video figures show networks need to get smart and play dumb written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago i don’t know whether to think recent calculations for mobile video consumption (or lack thereof) via the four top wireless carriers in america are just a little bit halloween spooky, a big point of concern, or perhaps a good omen. it’s come to be a c... entertainment 10+ ways to track your marathon run written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago some people make goals for themselves to reach every day. like an hour-long bike ride, or a walk or jog around the neighborhood each morning, noon, or night. others like to work themselves up toward bigger things. like climbing everest. or rowing acr... entertainment will the youtube generation take youtube to the polls? heck yes. written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago i’ve said it twice before already, but i’ll reiterate: this is the youtube election. yes, twitter has played some part. reputable bloggers on all sides of the fence, too. but youtube has been the glue that’s bound this big beautiful mess of a social ... entertainment 35+ sites made for web savvy families written by doriano "paisano" carta over 11 years ago families have collectively jumped on the web with gusto. online tools have given them the ability to do everything from track the family schedule to keep in touch with distant relatives, monitor their children's browsing, and more. many of these serv... entertainment youtube translate: so your babushka can get what your video blog is about written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago it was this past thursday, in our review of another review service, when i figured that google should seriously consider generating automated translations for youtube clips to build on its relatively young captions capability. well, today it began to... entertainment ziipa web 2.0 search: indie web apps ftw! written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago do you ever have the urge to explore new sites on the web? maybe you give the social search-discovery engine stumbleupon a few minutes of your time every day, looking for interesting places to visit. sort of like driving cross-country and seeing the ... entertainment the ultimate election day 2008 toolkit written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago we’re in the final 72 hours of the presidential campaign in the us, which many in the press and the blog space regard as one of the most contentious and captivating of any in recent history. yes, now is when fevers climb; voters arrange their car poo... entertainment want a free tv? purchance it. written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago you know those sweepstakes that go on in malls and on oceanside boardwalks? organizers might ask you to offer up $50 for a single ticket with a chance to win a car when the final lottery drawing is made. purchance is kind of same idea. only, you’re a... entertainment how to get the most out of linkedin written by brian wallace over 11 years ago in a time of stock market crisis, bailouts and a weak dollar, linkedin still raises $22.7 million in funding. how? it's a relevant site with a number of useful resources for professionals and businesses. meanwhile, the launch of the site's applicatio... entertainment qoof goes all-in-one with video retail. outta the way, qvc. written by paul glazowski over 11 years ago qoof, a company specializing in video-enhanced commerce for retailers on the web, à la hsn or qvc, is expanding on its toolset this week to include what it regards as an “all-in-one” platform showcasing products in detail surpassing that made possibl... entertainment host your website in salesforce.com’s cloud with force.com sites written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago salesforce.com is adding a major new component to its platform: allowing developers to run their external facing websites and applications on top of the company’s infrastructure. the new offering, called force.com sites, is aimed primarily at existin... entertainment myspace, mtv and auditude develop online video monetization strategy written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago if you can't beat them, join them. this is the gist of mtv and myspace's new online video monetization strategy: instead of yelling, complaining, and removing user uploaded copyrighted videos, they'll simply put up ads on them. they'll do this using ... entertainment top 5 tech "killers" that weren't written by pete cashmore over 11 years ago hulu, news corp and nbc's "youtube killer", just turned one year old. and while youtube is far from dead, hulu's 142 million video views in september might qualify as a paper cut. other "killers" heralded by the technology press...rarely leave a mark... entertainment rockyou spits in recession's face, secures $17 million in funding written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago we know that the looming recession doesn't mean that all funding will immediately stop, but amidst the waves of layoffs and cautionary e-mails sent by vcs it's nice to see widget maker rockyou getting an additional 17 million dollars, which brings th... entertainment mashable's guide to upcoming conferences and events written by tamar weinberg over 11 years ago here’s mashable’s latest round-up of upcoming web 2.0 events, parties, and conferences. not on this list? contact us and let’s establish a media partnership. :) november 3-4, 2008, new york city: learn about web design at the future of web design con... entertainment voxox is skype on steroids; mashable readers get 1200 mins of free calls written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago voxox is a new service launched by san diego based startup telcentris. it's a skype competitor that does more than just voip, unifying voice, video, instant messaging, texting, e-mail, fax and social media communication inside one desktop application... entertainment government 2.0: the presidential transition written by mark drapeau over 11 years ago dr. mark drapeau is an associate research fellow directing the social software for security (s3) project at the center for technology and national security policy of the national defense university in washington, dc. the day after the presidential el... entertainment thummit offers microreviews for restaurants (invites) written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago when someone asks you “how was it?” in relation to a new restaurant, do you typically go on for a few minutes about everything from the wait staff to the décor, or are you more likely to offer a “it was pretty good, i’d go there again!”? if you’re mo... entertainment what i learned from robert scoble about how to become internet famous written by andrew warner over 11 years ago andrew warner is an internet entrepreneur and the founder of mixergy.com. i've interviewed robert scoble several times about how to become internet famous because i'm dying to get some fame. i know it's not the kind of thing i'm supposed to admit, bu... entertainment flickr: 3 billion photos uploaded (and 30% the size of facebook) written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago photo sharing site flickr has announced that they’ve now had 3 billion photos uploaded to their servers. it was almost exactly a year ago that the site saw its 2 billionth photo uploaded, meaning that flickr has grown just over 50% in 2008. while tha... entertainment touchnote wants to bring back the postcard written by leslie poston over 11 years ago touchnote launched in the united kingdom today with the goal of making the internet just a little more personal. it allows you to send real mail to the people in your life in the form of custom cards that you create from your digital art. for those o... entertainment widgadget lets you build viral marketing widgets | the startup review written by doriano "paisano" carta over 11 years ago company widgadget 20-word description widgadget is the community portal for widget creation and distribution. it wishes to popularize widgets for users, bloggers and brands. ceo's pitch widgadget is designed to help users, bloggers, brands and agenci... entertainment 65+ resources to prepare for election day written by sean p. aune over 11 years ago the presidential election cycle is drawing to a close, but are you truly prepared to cast your vote? we've gathered up a wide selection of sites to help you review the issues that matter to you. from presidential sites and social networks to electora... entertainment yahoo live to shutdown; a yahoo problem or a doomed niche? written by adam ostrow over 11 years ago yahoo has announced that it will be shutting down yahoo live, the company’s attempt to cash in on the live broadcasting trend popularized by startups like ustream and justin.tv. according to the yahoo live blog, “… we constantly evaluate our early-st... entertainment 6 embeddable html editors for your website compared written by rob diana over 11 years ago not many web sites allow you to create your own pages, but many do allow you to create segments of html. what if you wanted to allow this on your own site? do you write your own editor? well, with the capabilities offered by these six embedded html e... entertainment a final look at presidential technology policy written by mark 'rizzn' hopkins over 11 years ago one of the topics i've touched on recently that's garnered the most interest has been the prospect of a chief technology officer sitting in the cabinet of the president of the united states. it's something that's been promised as a certainty to us sh... entertainment election results according to twitter written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago is there anything twitter can't do? apparently, you can even use it to guesstimate the result of us presidential elections in certain states. this little chart below, although not graphically beautiful, is the result of some algorithms put together b... entertainment want to work at twitter? written by stan schroeder over 11 years ago let me start off by noticing that twitter has nearly completely solved its frequent downtime issues. i haven't heard anyone complain about downtime in weeks, and i haven't noticed any problems with the site myself. so, now that they finally have that... ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 12 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.