home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you use social media by marianne manthey they’re all over pinterest. they’ve taken over facebook, twitter and instagram. they’re inspiring. they’re silly. they’re sad and they’re happy. yes, you guessed right – i’m talking about image quotes. have you seen photographs of inspiring landscapes with a quote neatly overlaid? or quotes in cool typography over a solid color background? those are image quotes. why image quotes get more shares on social media 1. people love quotes! 2. they help you connect with your readers because your audience can get to know you better by the types of quotes you share. 3. when people like a quote you’ve shared, they’re more likely to pin it to their pinterest boards and share it on their facebook, twitter or instagram feeds. this produces more backlinks, increasing traffic to your blog and social media profiles. so you can see how using image quotes is a simple way to get more shares on social media. here’s how to do it. how to use image quotes in your blog find inspirational quotes that pertain to your niche. think inspirational quotes are cheesy? try a humorous quote. do you use block quotes in your blog posts? if you use an image quote instead, you’ll have something on your post that’s ‘pinnable’ to pinterest. another idea is to share stats over an image. select a powerful image as a background, and you now have an incredible way to get your message across! image quotes are also good for turning your blog post titles into images that can be pinned or shared. add a catchy headline to a memorable image and you have a recipe for clicks and shares. how to create an image quote luckily for you, there are tons of websites that help you create image quotes quickly and easily. i’ll walk you through an example so you can see just how easy it is. go to quozio.com. paste in a quote and author (if there is one). choose a pre-designed template. share your creation. click on one of the little social media buttons directly below the image or click “keep” to download it and then add it to a blog post. note that quozio adds a small attribution at the bottom of your image. here’s an example: wasn’t that easy? let’s take a look at a few more image quote tools… quick and dirty: beginner tools here are a few more websites that are as easy to use as quozio. the nice thing about these tools is that you can create an image quote in under three minutes. because they use templates, you don’t have to fiddle with typography, colors or backgrounds. these websites are free and do not require you to create an account. recitethis recitethis has the best looking templates, but they do leave a rather noticeable watermark at the bottom of each image. the site includes a catalogue of quotes that are organized by category, making this a one-stop shop. post directly to pinterest, facebook, twitter, tumblr or stumbleupon. there is also a download button. pinwords pinwords has a few nice templates. choose from a selection of patterned backgrounds or upload your own background image. select one of six typographic themes, then paste in your quote. you can change the text color and move it around, but that’s about all the customization you get. again, it is super simple. pin it, like it, tweet it, post to tumblr or email it to yourself. pinstamatic pinstamatic has basic templates, and only allows you to share to pinterest from its website. but you can download the image by right clicking it, then uploading it to your blog or other social media account. pinstamatic does not add attribution to images. proquoter proquoter has simple templates that work well for block quotes. pin, tweet, like or share on google+. right click to download the image. getting fancy: intermediate tools beginner tools not cutting it for you? the following tools still allow you to create quick image quotes, but they come with additional options to customize the results to your liking. all intermediate tools can be used for free without creating an account. behappy.me this poster, t-shirt, mug printing shop allows you to create your own quote images and save them. i really like the results from behappy.me. at the top, click on “create your own,” then enter in your quote. choose an icon if you wish, a font and a color combination and you’re set to go! to save your image without a watermark, click “create,” then click on one of the preview options. on the next page, you’ll see your quote image in several presentation variations with no watermark. quotescover.com paste in your own quote or choose a quote from quotecover’s large selection, which is searchable via keyword. then choose whether you want to create a facebook or google+ cover graphic, or a facebook or twitter timeline graphic. you can upload your own background image and add a few effects to it or simply use a solid color background. the tool is a little clunky but it provides you with different font and color combinations to choose from. publish directly to facebook or download the image. i need more: advanced tools you designer, you, i like your style! 😉 these free tools require a bit more time, but the flexibility of design you get far outweighs the effort spent. canva canva is a relatively new image editing tool with amazing offerings. choose from various sized layouts: blog image, social media image, facebook cover, etc. then choose a themed template or collage. you can use the template as it is or you have the option to choose a different patterned background, upload your own images, or use one of the thousands of available stock images for $1 each. there are hundreds of text and shape overlays to choose from and each one is completely customizable. image credit: canva picmonkey picmonkey is the most flexible of the tools mentioned here. it has too many features to list, but highlights are: upload your own image backgrounds or use their small selection of images and patterned backgrounds. apply filters to your photos. add text and choose from a good selection of fonts, change the size or color and rotate it. add overlays in various shapes and themes. the possibilities are almost endless. image credit: unsplash wait, you need two more things! you’re now armed and ready to start creating some image quotes but you may need two more things: quotes and images! where to find quotes drawing a blank on a quote to use? these websites have thousands of quotes searchable by category: goodreads q.uote.it brainyquote findquotes.com finding free and amazing images is easy if you know where to look my favorite stock image site, hands-down, is unsplash. many of these utterly beautiful photographs are perfect for quotes. in fact some of the images used above are from unsplash. if unsplash doesn’t have what you want, you might want to check out my big 3-part guide to free stock photography. connecting with your audience has never been easier according to forbes, image-centric content rules in 2014 and i don’t doubt it. images are the most shared type of post on social media. word art on photographs is so hot right now that dozens of new smart phone apps are being created to help novice photographers spice up their images. beef up your instagram feed with quotes and word art. lure visitors back to your content by pinning an attractive quote to pinterest from your blog post. increase your edgerank on facebook by sharing an inspiring image quote that your readers will love to like and share. or draw attention by adding an image quote to a tweet via twitter’s new ability to add inline images. are you currently using image quotes in your posts or social media strategy? if so, i’d love to hear how they’re working for you. if not, what prevents you from giving it a try? let us know in the comments below! tweet6k pin690 share415 7k shares related posts 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base by victor blasco 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers by joan selby top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging by bailey belmont about the author marianne manthey marianne manthey is an award-winning blogger, web designer, wife and mom, based in costa rica. she helps creative bloggers and solopreneurs beautify their blogs, diy-style via helpful guides and step-by-step tutorials at designyourownblog.com. marianne is the author of blog beautiful: 50 tips + tricks to make your blog glow and the creator of crush css, a course teaching bloggers how easy it is to learn html and css, as well as how to use it to tweak their blog designs. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >