got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos music minute featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... ariana grande, katy perry, kim kardashian & more pay tribute to mariah carey in ‘all i want for christmas’ anniversary video — watch! home › mariah carey › ariana grande, katy perry, kim kardashian & more pay tribute to mariah carey in ‘all i want for christmas’ anniversary video — watch! merry christmas to the queen of christmas! mariah carey‘s all i want for christmas is you has made more than one milestone this year: not only is it the unstoppable holiday anthem’s 25th anniversary, the track recently topped the billboard hot 100 chart for the first time since its 1994 release! naturally, this calls for a celebration — and, as lambs know, no one celebrates like mimi. the superstar singer got her friends and favorite artists from around the world to celebrate the success of her christmas jam, and the result was a potluck of lip-syncing celebs! video: all you want for christmas is billy eichner & mariah on the street ariana grande, katy perry, kim kardashian, kris jenner, ryan reynolds, trevor noah, james corden, jamie foxx, jenna dewan, kerry washington, heidi klum, jojo siwa, diplo, millie bobby brown, chance the rapper, andy cohen, tyler perry, normani, olivia newton john, billy eichner, bryan tanaka (!?), and john travolta were some of the many celebs who took the time to honor the christmas kween. ch-ch-check out the video (below) to see who else wished mariah a merry christmas! [image via youtube] related posts celebrate mariah carey’s 50th birthday with her 5 most iconic music videos! kobe bryant’s death: more celeb tributes come pouring in for the late nba star how celebs spent new year’s eve! mariah carey shines in new ‘all i want for christmas is you’ music video with two special guests!! click click click next article next article dec 23, 2019 12:19pm pdt share this categories andy cohen ariana grande billy eichner chance the rapper diplo heidi klum holidaze james corden jamie foxx jenna dewan katy perry kim kardashian kris jenner mariah carey millie bobby brown music minute normani ryan reynolds trevor noah tyler perry view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy