got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos tv news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... ariana grande, victoria justice, & victorious castmates reflect on 10th anniversary! home › nostalgia › ariana grande, victoria justice, & victorious castmates reflect on 10th anniversary! it’s officially been 10 years since we first heard victoria justice sing “you’re never gonna fade / you’ll be the main attraction,” and the cast is feeling all the feels! the former students of hollywood arts high school, ariana grande, daniella monet, elizabeth gillies, matt bennett, avan jogia, and leon thomas iii are reflecting on the past decade since victorious first premiered on nickelodeon! related: watching myself on ‘victorious’ with my kids! as you’re likely aware, the 7 rings songstress first came onto the scene and into our hearts as cat valentine when the show premiered on march 27, 2010. she later went on to co-star in the spinoff/sequel cat & sam with jennette mccurdy of icarly fame. the 26-year-old reflected on “some of the most special years” of her life in a lengthy post on instagram: view this post on instagram ten years of victorious 🤍 daniella’s post got me all in my feels now so i’m sorry for the mushiness but…. jus want to say how grateful i will always be for being on this show and for those years of my life. i couldn’t have spent my teenage years with a better, more funny, talented group of human beings. i really loved playing cat valentine (even though sometimes people think i actually still speak and act like that and her essence will lovingly haunt me til i die) …. i miss getting in trouble w my friends the school room and trying not to laugh when we weren’t supposed to on set. i even miss waking up with red hair dye stained pillows. thank u @danwarp and to my cast mates for some of the most special years of my life and for bringing all of us into each other’s lives. happy anniversary! a post shared by ariana grande (@arianagrande) on mar 26, 2020 at 8:59pm pdt victoria, who first found fame starring in zoey 101 (another classic!!) as lola martinez, roommate of jamie lynn spears‘ character zoey brooks. she went on to star in victorious as tori vega, and also reminisced on the show which “changed” her life: view this post on instagram 10 years of victorious!!! it’s actually a little crazy typing that, because in a lot of ways it feels like it was just yesterday. i’ll never forget how i cried at our very first table read. i cried because i was sooo frickin’ happy!!! this show changed my life & i’m so grateful i got to share it with this amazing, insanely talented group of people. we share memories together that i look back fondly on to this day & will always cherish. thank you so much to all the fans who continue to love and support our show. makes me real happy to see that it’s still enjoyed by so many of you. thank you @danwarp for creating this magic 🙏🏼♥️🙏🏼. i love you guys!!! #grateful a post shared by victoria justice (@victoriajustice) on mar 26, 2020 at 11:11pm pdt miz monet, who portrayed trina vega on the series also shared an adorable throwback pic (above) of the last time the group was together back in 2015. she wrote along with her photo: “the last time we were all together 🧡 miss you guys, i miss victorious, nick on sunset 😔, i miss laughing all the time, getting nervous before run throughs, our cute little dressing rooms, spending way too long in hair and make up, my crazy trina shoes and tiny shorts w big shirts because my boobs were too big for a kids show, i even miss being freezing during crazy long night shoots, i miss the choreography because i was convinced i was a dancer (i’m not), i don’t totally miss recording songs because i can’t sing, but i miss hearing you guys sing all day. i miss the concerts we did together, especially that one in florida and london, i actually think that’s all we did, i miss the trip to mall of america, and just all the the different places we traveled to together… aw and i miss trying to make liz feel better about flying and taking elevators, i miss prank calling ea other from different hotel rooms… most of all, miss seeing you guys every day. cheers to our 10 year anniversary. what a show, what a cast love you guys. thank you to every single one of you who watched and supported us then and now. best fans in the game” it’s clear there’s still a whole lot of love between these cast members. so sweet!! did u used to watch victorious, perezcious readers? it’s on netflix if you’d like a trip down memory lane!! [image via daniella monet/instagram.] related posts celebrate mariah carey’s 50th birthday with her 5 most iconic music videos! soothing animal crossing: new horizons nail art is what the world needs right now! yes, hannah montana was just trying to be lizzie mcguire — says miley cyrus to hilary duff! nick lachey gave this 98 degrees hit an educational coronavirus remix! click click click next article next article mar 27, 2020 12:19pm pdt share this categories ariana grande instagram nostalgia tv news victoria justice view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy