armed and dangerous sex, software, politics, and firearms. life's simple pleasures… main menu skip to primary content skip to secondary content home search post navigation ← older posts mar 24 choosing your weapons wisely posted on 2020-03-24 by esr in the comments to my last post advising people not to panic-buy guns because of covid-19, i got a request from a regular wondering how to choose a first firearm wisely, and about safe storage practices. he said: “i’m thinking in the next year of getting a gun for home defense, and i’d like myself and my spouse to train with it. […] i have young kids, and want to make sure the gun is accessible enough to be reachable in the event of a break-in but hard enough to access that my daughter doesn’t get into it.” credentials for anybody new here: i have several decades of experience as a self-defense and firearms instructor. i’m grateful that i haven’t had to shoot a human being yet. i’m not a professional in this stuff, but people who are treat me as a peer. as you keep reading, i think you will recognize the common sense in my advice. content warning: if you are easily offended by cold-blooded consideration of violent outcomes or damned facts about statistical patterns in criminality, this post will offend you. i’m going to address the second sentence first. for basic physical security, you may want to consider getting a pistol-sized gun safe with a biometric lock. however…and i cannot emphasize this enough…do not rely on this to protect your children. children are curious and ingenious and if they consider your security a challenge to be defeated you could have a tragedy. the only safety lock that reliably protects your child is the one you install in your child’s head by teaching him or her that a gun is a dangerous tool that should only be used with adult supervision. explain the danger. do not make your weapons taboo forbidden fruit or surround them with mystery; if your child is curious, take him or her to the range with you. if your child becomes very interested, this is good. shooting sports are an effective way to develop discipline and concentration. and very safe (safer than golf, for example) except in the extremely unlikely case that you’ve raised a sociopath or some other kind of minimal-brain-damage victim, in which case you have larger problems than i’m going to try to address here. now i’ll talk about intelligent choice of weapons. this depends on your threat model and where you live. i’m going to go into different threat models more later in this post, but i’ll start with advice that is common to all of them. the single most universally useful firearm you can have – and the least dangerous in case of accident or misuse – is a reliable carry pistol which you do, in fact, carry daily. do not get hung up on caliber or type. gunfolks love to argue about stopping power and bullet ballistics but it turns out that once you get out of the mouse-gun range (.22, .25 and .32) all pistol calibers have essentially indistinguishable statistics on two-shot stops. therefore, keep it simple. rent several different pistols at a range. to use your time efficiently, exclude monster hand cannons like .44 magnum; that is certainly not a good beginner’s choice. you should be looking at calibers from 9mm up to .45acp (11mm). shoot them all, and pay attention to which one fits your hand the best and feels most comfortable for you to shoot. that is almost certainly the one you should buy. i myself prefer medium-caliber semiautomatics like a .40 or .45 because i don’t enjoy the snappy recoil of a 9mm. but other people can be best suited for lighter-caliber pistols or revolvers; there are a lot of relevant variables including the shape and size of your hands and what kind of upper-body strength you have. for home defense, it’s probably a good idea to fit a laser sight on your pistol; i got an aftermarket one recently for my .45. then you can train in point shooting using the laser – makes you faster responding because you don’t have to pause to get a sight picture. because this post is about choice of weapons, i’m not going to talk a lot about training methods except to say “do one”. train, train, train. get comfortable with firing your weapon, learn how to be accurate at normal pistol engagement ranges of 7-10 feet. that’s feet, not yards. it’s pretty close. accuracy at that range is easy. more important than crisply perfect technique is the ability to handle the psychological stress of clutch situations so your accuracy doesn’t go to shit when you’re tired, rattled, and in low-light conditions. read up on “stress inoculation” and try to get some. don’t be daunted by the thought that it takes years to master shooting. as with all skills, the more you put into it, the more you can get out. but any competent instructor can teach you how to handle firearms safely in 20 minutes, and you can develop the competence for basic self-defense shooting in a few hours. you should lock that in with at least semi-regular practice, though. the newer you are, the more regular it should be; eventually (after years) you may get to the point where your muscle memory is solid enough to weather long periods without practice. you’ll need a holster so you can carry. a gunbelt – which is just an extra-stiff leather belt that helps distribute the weight of you weapon – is a good investment. alas, choosing good gunleather is an entire topic in itself. expect that the first holster you buy will not be optimal and that you’ll probably need to experiment a few times before finding one that suits you for long-term use. one area in which i think the gun culture can be unhelpful is in helping you judge how much ammunition to keep around. the problem is that a lot of us gunfolks end to treat the size of our ammo stockpiles as a sort of tongue-in-cheek competitive studliness display. the truth is that for almost everyone a 250-round reserve per weapon (exclusive of what you buy and shoot at the range) is just fine – generous, in fact. beyond that first pistol, what else you should buy starts to diverge based on where you live and what your threat model is. i’m going to start by assuming the most common and simplest one, which i’ll call the standard threat model: you want to defend yourself and your family against low-level criminal violence, with a side order of hedging against a temporary (on the order of a few days) condition of civil disorder due to, e.g., natural disaster. in that case a lot depends on whether you live in switzerland or swaziland. most of the u.s. has violent-crime statistics like switzerland – very low base rate of crime, law-abiding neighbors, high levels of legal gun ownership. in switzerland, even temporary disaster conditions don’t induce looting, arson, and crime spikes. therefore they do not raise your threat level much. unfortunately, parts of the u.s. – some major urban cores, and some drug-corridor rural areas near the mexican border – are swaziland. in swaziland base violent-crime rates are high. rates of legal gun ownership are low. your neighbors are unhelpful, and a high-deviant cohort of them is actively dangerous. if you live in switzerland (easily 95% of the u.s. by land area), rational assessment of the standard threat model does not require you to be heavily armed. i’d start with a carry pistol for each adult household member, and one shotgun for fixed-point defense. whether you should also get a rifle depends on where you live. if you’re urban or suburban there’s not a lot of physical point to it because you won’t have long enough sightlines for distance shooting to matter much. if you’re rural, on the other hand, you want a rifle. how serious a rifle depends on whether you have dangerous critters like bears or mountain lions in your area. most people can get away with what gunfolks call a “varmint rifle” – a light-caliber rifle that shoots cheap ammo like .22lr. this is fine if your typical animal threat is something like a rabid skunk. it will take care of threatening humans too, in the extremely unlikely event you assess enough threat to have to shoot them at distance. if, on the other hand, you have heavy threats like cougars or bears, you need a heavier rifle and a bigger bullet. detailed discussion of these is out of scope for this post. besides, i don’t know much about heavy rifles and wouldn’t want to give bad advice. if you live near enough to a swaziland, your threat profile is entirely different. here’s how to tell if you do: (1) you live in a rural area with the mexican border or concentrations of illegal immigrants within a two-hour drive. (2) you live in an urban area and within 20 minutes’ walk of you are places where groups of black or hispanic males aged 15-35 carrying intoxicants routinely gather. yes, i can hear you lefties screaming already. all i have to say is: study the crime statistics. we can tell all kinds of stories about why those numbers look the way they do. some of the stories we could tell are racist and irrational (but i repeat myself). the fact that shitty people tell toxic stories about the numbers doesn’t change the numbers, and it doesn’t change what the rational response to the numbers should be. in american swaziland, unlike african swaziland, there’s no dangerous-animal threat at all, so you don’t need a heavy rifle. however, you have a banditry problem – not just individual muggers and home invaders but gangs of feral predators who routinely commit crimes ranging from mass shoplifting raids upwards to savage monkey-dance beatings that cripple or kill their victims. civil disorder in swaziland is quite dangerous, not only because of direct threat from mobs of ferals but due to indirect threats like arson. in swaziland you also need to assume that any assailant will be high off his ass on something like pcp or bath salts – a disassociative anesthetic. pistol rounds do not reliably stop such a person before they can get close enough to kill you unless you luck out with a heart or brain shot. if you’re living in swaziland, the best thing you can do for yourself and society is arm up to the level where you pose a credible threat not just to individual criminals but to a mob of drunk or drugged ferals with a low average iq and poor impulse control. because riots or natural disaster could require you to step up like a roof korean. that means we’re in scary-black-rifle territory. you want an ar-15 or something like one. understand that functionally an ar-15 is not very different in how accurately can shoot and what it can stop from your granddad’s hunting rifle. however, what it does to a mob’s threat assessment is very different. granddad’s hunting rifle says to a mob “stupid ofay probably hasn’t fired that thing in years.” black rifle says “uh oh, gun nut. prepared. would probably rather shoot than not.” ironically, this means that if what you’re showing is granddad’s hunting rifle, you’re more likely to have to actually shoot it. i’d consider actually having to shoot a human a less than optimal outcome; if you don’t, i probably don’t want to know you. and that pretty much wraps up the standard threat model. now i’ll briefly cover a couple of other possibilities you might want to arm against which group together because they push your weapons mix in a similar direction. one is longer-term civil disorder, ranging upwards to what gunfolks and preppers call “shtf” (shit hits the fan) scenarios. worrying about these changes your optimal weapons mix – basically, you have to assume mob-feral violence as a prompt threat even in switzerland. you’ll want scary black rifles, at least one per military-age household member. however…i urge you not to worry about the weapons themselves so much that you neglect other needs. one is ammunition. anywhere near shtf conditions ammunition is going to become scarce and valuable; you want at least a thousand rounds per weapon and 10k would not be excessive. more importantly, however, you need to lay in serious amounts of food and medical supplies before going on any gun-buying sprees. you can’t eat bullets, and raiding your neighbors for food would get terminally risky pretty fast. i myself do not prep for shtf very seriously, for reasons which i could explain but which are beyond the scope of this post. however, there is a different reason for me to have a shtf-like weapons mix: the second amendment. i take my constitutional duty to be part of the nation in arms seriously, and i insist on having the weapons that would-be tyrants foreign and domestic fear and want to take away from me precisely because they want to take them. generalizing, a sufficient reason to keep weapons beyond what the standard threat model requires is as a move in the political power game, with the goal of ensuring that they are never actually needed. posted in firearms | 308 replies mar 23 psa: covid-19 is a bad reason to get a firearm posted on 2020-03-23 by esr i’m a long-time advocate of more ordinary citizens getting themselves firearms and learning to use them safely and competently. but this is a public-service announcement: if you’re thinking of running out to buy a gun because of covid-19, please don’t. there are disaster scenarios in which getting armed up in a hurry makes sense; the precondition for all of them is a collapse of civil order. that’s not going to happen with covid-19 – the mortality rate is too low. be aware that the gun culture doesn’t like and doesn’t trust panic buyers; they tend to be annoying flake cases who are more of liability than an asset. we prefer a higher-quality intake than we can get in the middle of a plague panic. slow down. think. and if you’ve somehow formed the idea that you’re in a zombie movie or a road warrior sequel, chill. that’s not a useful reaction; it can lead to panic shootings and those are never good. i don’t mean to discourage anyone from buying guns in the general case – more armed citizens are a good thing on multiple levels. after we’re through the worst of this would be a good time for it. but do it calmly, learn the four rules of firearms safety first, and train, train, train. get good with your weapons, and confident enough not to shoot unless you have to, before the next episode of shit-hits-the-fan. posted in firearms, general | 126 replies mar 09 shellcheck: boosting the signal posted on 2020-03-09 by esr i like code-validation tools, because i hate defects in my software and i know that there are lots of kinds of defects that are difficult for an unaided human brain to notice. on my projects, i throw every code validater i can find at my code. standbys are cppcheck for c code, pylint for python, and go lint for go code. i run these frequently – usually they’re either part of the “make check” i use to run regression tests, or part of the hook script run when i push changes to the public repository. a few days ago i found another validator that i now really like: shellcheck yes, it’s a lint/validator for shell scripts – and in retrospect shell, as spiky and irregular and suffused with multilevel quoting as it is, has needed something like this for a long time. i haven’t done a lot of shell scripting in the last couple of decades. it’s not a good language for programming at larger orders of magnitude than 10 lines or so – too many tool dependencies, too difficult to track what’s going on. these problems are why perl and later scripting language became important; if shell had scaled up better the space they occupy would have remained shell code as far as the eye can see. but sometimes you write a small script, and then it starts to grow, and you can end up in an awkward size range where it isn’t quite unmanageable enough to drive you to port it to (say) python yet. i have some cases like this in the reposurgeon suite. for this sort of thing a shell validater/linter can be a real boon, enabling you to have much more confidence that you’ll catch silly errors when you modify the script, and actually increasing the upper limit of source-line count at which shell remains a viable programming language. so it is an excellent thing that shellcheck is a solid and carefully-thought-out piece of work. it does catch lot of nits and potential errors, hardening your script against cases you probably haven’t tested yet. for example. it’s especially good at flagging constructs that will break if a shell variable like $1 gets set to a value with embedded whitspace. it has other features you want in a code validator, too. you can do line-by-line suppression of specific spellcheck warnings with magic comments, telling the tool “yes, i really meant to do that” so it will shut up. this means when you get new warnings they are really obvious. also, it’s fast. fast enough that you can run it on all your shellscripts up front of all your regular regression tests and probably barely ever notice the time cost. it’s standard practice for me to have a “make check” that runs code validators and then the regression tests. i’m going back and adding shellcheck validation to those check productions on all my projects that ship shell scripts. i recommend this as a good habit to everybody. posted in software | 28 replies feb 27 the right to be rude posted on 2020-02-27 by esr the historian robert conquest once wrote: “the behavior of any bureaucratic organization can best be understood by assuming that it is controlled by a secret cabal of its enemies.” today i learned that the open source initiative has reached that point of bureaucratization. i – osi’s co-founder and its president for its first six years – was kicked off their lists for being too rhetorically forceful in opposing certain recent attempts to subvert osd clauses 5 and 6. this despite the fact that i had vocal support from multiple list members who thanked me for being willing to speak out. it shouldn’t be news to anyone that there is an effort afoot to change – i would say corrupt – the fundamental premises of the open-source culture. instead of meritocracy and “show me the code”, we are now urged to behave so that no-one will ever feel uncomfortable. the effect – the intended effect – is to diminish the prestige and autonomy of people who do the work – write the code – in favor of self-appointed tone-policers. in the process, the freedom to speak necessary truths even when the manner in which they are expressed is unpleasant is being gradually strangled. and that is bad for us. very bad. both directly – it damages our self-correction process – and in its second-order effects. the habit of institutional tone policing, even when well-intentioned, too easily slides into the active censorship of disfavored views. the cost of a culture in which avoiding offense trumps the liberty to speak is that crybullies control the discourse. to our great shame, people who should know better – such as the osi list moderators and bod – have internalized anticipatory surrender to crybullying. they no longer even wait for the soi-disant victims to complain before wielding the ban-hammer. we are being social-hacked from being a culture in which freedom is the highest value to one in which it is trumped by the suppression of wrongthink and wrongspeak. our enemies – people like coraline ada-ehmke – do not even really bother to hide this objective. our culture is not fatally damaged yet, but the trend is not good. osi has been suborned and is betraying its founding commitment to freedom. “codes of conduct” that purport to regulate even off-project speech have become all too common. wake up and speak out. embrace the right to be rude – not because “rude” in itself is a good thing, but because the degenerative slide into suppression of disfavored opinions has to be stopped right where it starts, at the tone policing. the osi membership page is here. posted in general, hacker culture, politics | 770 replies feb 21 reposurgeon defeats all monsters! posted on 2020-02-21 by esr on january 12th 2020, reposurgeon performed a successful conversion of its biggest repository ever – the entire history of the gnu compiler collection, 280k commits with a history stretching back through 1987. not only were some parts cvs, the earliest portions predated cvs and had been stored in rcs. i waited this long to talk about it to give the dust time to settle on the conversion. but it’s been 5 weeks now and i’ve heard nary a peep from the gcc developers about any problems, so i think we can score this as reposurgeon’s biggest victory yet. continue reading → posted in software | tagged reposurgeon | 81 replies feb 15 the reality of the lizard people posted on 2020-02-15 by esr one of the loonier and more wonderful conspiracy theories floating around the internet is it many of the world’s elite are shapeshifting lizardoid extraterrestrials. this explainer seems to sum it up pretty well. when i first encountered this idea i was gobsmacked. how could anyone actually believe such a thing? and yet, apparently, many people do – millions of them, if polls on the topic are to be believed. how humans form and maintain insane beliefs when there are plenty of objective reasons to know better is, i fear, a topic of continuing fascination to me. if only because when contagious and totalizing forms of insanity like marxism or supernaturalist religions motivate the behavior of mobs they pose a significant threat to my survival. the lizard-people theory isn’t in that class of danger, but i think cases like it and (for example) flat-earthism are worth analysis precisely because they’re so implausible and still manage to attract adherents. extremes like this can be revealing about mechanisms that are harder to see closer to the ordinary. and indeed when i was mulling over lizard-people theory a few years ago i think i really did get a significant insight about the psychology of belief and what lizard-people conspiracy theory actually means. continue reading → posted in psychology | 213 replies feb 07 chinese bioweapon ii: electric boogaloo posted on 2020-02-07 by esr yikes. despite the withdrawal of the indian paper arguing that the wuhan virus showed signs of engineering, the hypothesis that that it’s an escaped bioweapon looks stronger than ever. why do i say this? because it looks like my previous inclination to believe the rough correctness of the official statistics – as conveyed by the johns hopkins tracker – was wrong. i now think the chinese are in way deeper shit than they’re admitting. continue reading → posted in general, science | 337 replies feb 06 build engines suck. help gpsd select a new one. posted on 2020-02-06 by esr one of the eternal mysteries of software is why build engines suck so badly. continue reading → posted in software | 111 replies feb 01 three reasons to believe the wuhan virus is a bioweapon posted on 2020-02-01 by esr i know it sounds like tinfoil-hat territory, but there are now three pieces of evidence pointing at the conclusion that the wuhan coronavirus is an accidentally released bioweapon. update: just two. the paper giving evidence for engineering was retracted s a few days after i wrote this. continue reading → posted in science | 81 replies jan 31 head-voice vs. quiet-mind posted on 2020-01-31 by esr i’m utterly boggled. yesterday, out of nowhere, i learned of a fundamental divide in how peoples’ mental lives work about which i had had no previous idea at all. from this: today i learned that not everyone has an internal monologue and it has ruined my day. my reaction to that title can be rendered in language as – “wait. people actually have internal monologues? those aren’t just a cheesy artistic convention used to concretize the welter of pre-verbal feelings and images and maps bubbling in peoples’ brains?” apparently not. i’m what i have now learned to call a quiet-mind. i don’t have an internal narrator constantly expressing my thinking in language; in shorthand, i’m not a head-voice person. so much not so that when i follow the usual convention of rendering quotes from my thinking as though they were spoken to myself, i always feel somewhat as though i’m lying, fabulating to my readers. it’s not like that at all! i justify writing as though there had been a voice in my head only because the full multiordinality of my actual thought-forms won’t fit through my typing fingers. but, apparently, for others it often is like that. yesterday i learned that the world is full of head-voice people who report that they don’t know what they’re thinking until the narratizer says it. judging by the reaction to the article it seems us quiet-minds are a minority, one in five or fewer. and that completely messes with my head. what’s the point? why do you head-voice people need a narrator to tell you what your own mind is doing? i fully realize this question could be be reflected with “why don’t you need one, eric?” but it is quite disturbing in either direction. so now i’m going to report some interesting detail. there are exactly two circumstances under which i have head-voice. one is when i’m writing or consciously framing spoken communication. then, my compositional output does indeed manifest as narratizing head-voice. the other circumstances is the kind of hypnogogic experience i reported in sometimes i hear voices. outside of those two circumstances, no head-voice. instead, my thought forms are a jumble of words, images, and things like diagrams (a commenter on instapundit spoke of “concept maps” and yeah, a lot of it is like that). to speak or write i have to down-sample this flood of pre-verbal stuff into language, a process i am not normally aware of except as an occasional vague and uneasy sense of how much i have thrown away. (a friend reports richard feynman observing that ‘you don’t describe the shape of a camshaft to yourself.” no; you visualize a camshaft, then work with that visualization in your head. well, if you can – some people can’t. i therefore dub the pre-verbal level “camshaft thinking.”) to be fully aware of that pre-verbal, camshaft-thinking level i have to go into a meditative or hypnogogic state. then i can observe that underneath my normal mental life is a vast roar of constant free associations, apparently random memory retrievals, and weird spurts of logic connecting things, only some of which passes filters to present to my conscious attention. i don’t think much or any of this roar is language. what it probably is, is the shock-front described in the predictive-processing model of how the brain works – where the constant inrush of sense-data meets the brain’s attempt to fit it to prior predictive models. so for me there are actually three levels: (1) the roaring flood of free association, which i normally don’t observe; (2) the filtered pre-verbal stream of consciousness, mostly camshaft thinking, that is my normal experience of self, and (3) narratized head-voice when i’m writing or thinking about what to say to other people. i certainly do not head-voice when i program. no, that’s all camshaft thinking – concept maps of data structures, chains of logic. processing that is like mathematical reasoning though not identical to it. after the fact i can sometimes describe parts of this process in language, but it doesn’t happen in language. learning that other people mostly hang out at (3), with a constant internal monologue…this is to me unutterably bizarre. a day later i’m still having trouble actually believing it. but i’ve been talking with wife and friends, and the evidence is overwhelming that it’s true. language…it’s so small. and linear. of course camshaft thinking is intrinsically limited by the capabilities of the brain and senses, but less so. so why do most people further limit themselves by being in head-voice thinking most of the time? what’s the advantage to this? why are quiet-minds a minority? i think the answers to these questions might be really important. update: my friend, jason azze, found the feynman quote. it’s from “it’s as simple as one, two, three…” from the second book of anecdotes, what do you care what other people think?: when i was a kid growing up in far rockaway, i had a friend named bernie walker. we both had “labs” at home, and we would do various “experiments.” one time, we were discussing something — we must have been eleven or twelve at the time — and i said, “but thinking is nothing but talking to yourself inside.” “oh yeah?” bernie said. “do you know the crazy shape of the crankshaft in a car?” “yeah, what of it?” “good. now, tell me: how did you describe it when you were talking to yourself?” so i learned from bernie that thoughts can be visual as well as verbal. posted in general | 160 replies jan 26 missing documentation and the reproduction problem posted on 2020-01-26 by esr i recently took some criticism over the fact that reposurgeon has no documentation that is an easy introduction for beginners. after contemplating the undeniable truth of this criticism for a while, i realized that i might have something useful to say about the process and problems of documentation in general – something i didn’t already bring out in how to write narrative documentation. if you haven’t read that yet, doing so before you read the rest of this mini-essay would be a good idea. “why doesn’t reposurgeon have easy introductory documentation” would normally have a simple answer: because the author, like all too many programmers, hates writing documentation, has never gotten very good at it, and will evade frantically when under pressure to try. but in my case none of that description is even slightly true. like donald knuth, i consider writing good documentation an integral and enjoyable part of the art of software engineering. if you don’t learn to do it well you are short-changing not just your users but yourself. so, with all that said, “why doesn’t reposurgeon have easy introductory documentation” actually becomes a much more interesting question. i knew there was some good reason i’d never tried to write any, but until i read elijah newren’s critique i never bothered to analyze for the reason. he incidentally said something very useful by mentioning gdb (the gnu symbolic debugger), and that started me thinking, and now think i understand something general. continue reading → posted in general | tagged reposurgeon | 41 replies jan 24 30 days in the hole posted on 2020-01-24 by esr yes, it’s been a month since i posted here. to be more precise, 30 days in the hole – i’ve been heads-down on a project with a deadline which i just barely met. and then preoccupied with cleanup from that effort. the project was reposurgeon’s biggest conversion yet, the 280k-commit history of the gnu compiler collection. as of jan 11 it is officially lifted from subversion to git. the effort required to get that done was immense, and involved one hair-raising close call. continue reading → posted in hacker culture, software | tagged reposurgeon | 50 replies dec 23 the great inversion posted on 2019-12-23 by esr there’s a political trend i have been privately thinking of as “the great inversion”. it has been visible since about the end of world war ii in the u.s., great britain, and much of western europe, gradually gaining steam and going into high gear in the late 1970s. the great inversion reached a kind of culmination in the british elections of 2019. that makes this a good time, and the british elections a good frame, for explaining the great inversion to an american audience. it’s a thing that is easier to see without the distraction of transient american political issues. (and maybe i have an easier time seeing the pattern because i lived in great britain as a child. british politics is more intelligible to me than to most americans because of that early experience.) to understand the great inversion, we have to start by remembering what the marxism of the pre-wwii old left was like — not ideologically, but sociologically. it was an ideology of, by, and for the working class. continue reading → posted in politics | 252 replies nov 20 beware the finger trap! posted on 2019-11-20 by esr i think it’s useful to coin pithy terms for phenomena that all software engineers experience but don’t have a name to put to. our term of the day is “finger trap”. continue reading → posted in general | 192 replies nov 17 some places i won’t go posted on 2019-11-17 by esr a few minutes ago i received a request by email from a conference organizer who wants me to speak at an event in a foreign country. unfortunately, the particular country has become a place i won’t go. having decided that i want my policy and my reasoning to be publicly known, i reproduce here the request and my reply. i withhold the requester’s name for his protection. continue reading → posted in politics | 133 replies nov 10 grasping bloomberg’s nettle posted on 2019-11-10 by esr michael bloomberg, the former mayor of new york perhaps best known for taking fizzy drinks, and now a democratic presidential aspirant, has just caused a bit of a kerfuffle by suggesting that minorities be disarmed to keep them alive. i think the real problem with bloomberg’s remark is not that it reads as shockingly racist, it’s that reading it that way leaves us unable to deal with the truth he is telling. because he’s right; close to 95% of all gun murders are committed by minority males between 15 and 25, and most of the victims are minorities themselves. that is a fact. what should we do with it? continue reading → posted in firearms, politics | 274 replies sep 28 the dream is real posted on 2019-09-28 by esr elon musk’s new starship is not the tall skinny pressurized-aluminum cylinder we’re used to thinking of a real rocket, but a fat cigar-shaped thing made of stainless steel, with tail fins. i just listened to an elaborate economic and engineering rationale for this. and i don’t believe a word of it. it had to be that way because elon musk grew up on the same golden age science fiction magazine cover illustrations i did, and it looks exactly like those. has tailfins. freaking tailfins. and lands on a pillar of fire just like god and robert heinlein (pbuh) intended. the dream is real. posted in science, science fiction | 499 replies sep 14 gratitude for beto posted on 2019-09-14 by esr beto o’rourke is a pretty risible character even among the clown show that is the 2020 cycle’s democratic candidate-aspirants. a faux-populist with a history of burglary and dui, he married the heiress of a billionaire and money-bombed his way to a seat in the house of representatives, only to fail when he ran for the senate six years later because texas had had enough of his bullshit. beneath the boyish good looks on which he trades so heavily, his track record reveals him to be a rather dimwitted and ineffectual manchild with a severe case of dunning-kruger effect. beto’s presidential aspirations are doomed, though he and the uncontacted aborigines of the andaman islands are possibly the only inhabitants of planet earth who do not yet grasp this. before flaming out of the 2020 race to a life of well-deserved obscurity, however, beto has done the american polity one great service for which i must express my most sincere and enduring gratitude. continue reading → posted in firearms, politics | 917 replies sep 04 be the america hong kong thinks you are posted on 2019-09-04 by esr i think this is my favorite internet meme ever. yeah, hong kong, we actually have a problem with communist oppression here, too. notably in our universities, but metastasizing through pop culture and social media censorship too. they haven’t totally captured the machinery of state yet, but they’re working on that long march all too effectively. and you are absolutely right when you say you need a second-amendment-equivalent civil rights guarantee. our communists hate that liberty as much as yours do – actually, noticing who is gung-ho for gun confiscation is one of the more reliable ways to unmask communist tools. we need to be the america you think we are, too. some of us are still trying. posted in general, politics | 295 replies aug 24 the order of defenders posted on 2019-08-24 by esr officiant: “one comes before us today who wishes to become a sworn brother. let him approach.” officiant: “are there two brothers present who will affirm that the candidate is of sound mind and good character, being aware that the penalty for error in this judgment is expulsion and disgrace?” upon hearing affirmations, the officiant continues: “very well. aspirant. take your firearm in your dominant hand. raise it in the posture i now demonstrate, and repeat after me. after each line, the assembled brothers will affirm with one voice.” my gun protects the weak. so mote it be! my gun speaks for liberty. so mote it be! my gun defends myself, my neighbors and my nation. so mote it be! my gun guards civilization. so mote it be! with this oath i become a sworn brother of the order of defenders. so mote it be! i will defend, and teach others to defend themselves. so mote it be! i will shoot neither in anger nor haste nor from any sort of intoxication, but in grave knowledge of the consequences. so mote it be! when a sworn brother calls for aid in defending, i will answer. so mote it be! these things i swear by all i hold sacred. so mote it be! following the initiation, all repair to a shooting range for convivial practice. i wrote the above after thinking about rudyard kipling’s ritual of the iron ring for newly-graduated engineers. rituals like this exist to express and formalize what is best in us. the order of defenders does not exist. perhaps it should. posted in firearms | 205 replies page 1 of 681234next ›last » tip jar donate here to support my open-source projects. small but continuing donations via patreon help more than one-time donations via paypal. archives march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 august 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 january 2006 december 2005 november 2005 september 2005 august 2005 july 2005 february 2005 january 2005 december 2004 november 2004 october 2004 september 2004 february 2004 january 2004 december 2003 november 2003 october 2003 september 2003 august 2003 july 2003 june 2003 may 2003 april 2003 december 2002 november 2002 october 2002 september 2002 july 2002 june 2002 may 2002 meta log in entries rss comments rss wordpress.org https://live-sex.fun/ hacker emblem eric conspiracy anti-idiotarian manifesto © 2020 armed and dangerous admired theme