instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "around ottawa" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: around ottawa rebecca 1 min read july 18, 2018 no reply free concert series in ottawa’s east end (family friendly) around ottawa this post is paid in partnership with shenkman arts centre the summer series at shenkman arts centre is a free concert series happening every thursday this summer highlighting the talents of local artists and performers. there’s a free family-friendly concert series happening weekly at @shenkmanarts all summer long! via @bitofmomsense click to tweet we love being able to introduce the kids to new music and cultural performances, and what better way than with a free concert at shenkman arts centre! free outdoor concerts! these outdoor concerts (or indoor in the upper lobby in case of rain) are happening all summer long, with each week featuring a different artists. the series is between 12:30 and 1:30 pm so you should be able to squeeze in a show even if you have little ones with a nap time and older kids will appreciate the live music. this family-friendly show is for all ages. you can find full details on their website or visit their facebook events page to set reminders fro yourself. here’s a list of all of the performances and dates: summer series additional shows: july 5 – oto-wa taiko july 12 – fana soro “yamo yamo” july 19 – wise atangana august 2 – puja uppal – bollywood dance august 9 – rhonda doxtador – hoop dance august 16 – calvin vollrath – fiddle music august 23 – fana soro “yamo yamo” if you live in orleans, ottawa’s east end or want to take a drive (the shenkman arts centre is easily accessible from the highway), then mark your calendars, pack a picnic (there are picnic tables around shenkman!) and make plans to head to participate in these free concert series. rebecca 3 min read july 22, 2017 no reply what to do with kids in august in ottawa around ottawa there is still plenty of summer left before the kids all go back to school! not sure how to keep them busy if you are around ottawa this summer? here are some activities that you may want to check out (i’ve included ones that will be perfect for older kids and ones for younger toddlers and preschoolers too!) what to do in #ottawa with the kids in august via @bitofmomsense click to tweet fun family activities to do in ottawa this august explore the canadian history hall the history hall has been something we’ve been looking forward to, and it’s on our august list to visit. with so many canadian artifacts and so much information in one spot, it’s sure to be an interesting visit. learn about vimy at the canadian war museum my son has been asking to go to this for a while, so if you have older kids or ones interested in military history, the limited vimy – beyond the battle exhibit (it’s here until november) will be of interest to you. this is also on our august list! take in the fun programming at billings estate national historic site this was brought to my attention by my sister who has three little ones under the age of five. she raved about the special programming at the billings estate national estate site (a place we love to go too!). i didn’t realize they had so much to offer during the summer. there are programs for preschools as well as kids up to age 12. different days of the week offer a different theme. check it out! learn about farming at the cumberland heritage village museum another local museum that we love is the cumberland museum. on august 13, they have a special farming event where families can learn more about farm life, and get hands-on with experiments and more. go back in time at upper canada village we love visiting upper canada village, and the summer is always a great time to walk around the village and explore. plus, buy bread. before you go: print off the two free children’s tickets that ontario has available! visit petrie island i recently wrote an article on savvymom about all the fun activities at petrie island. it’s been a rough year for the island, and some activities may have changed depending on how the location is doing, but it’s worth looking into the junior naturalists program so kids can learn more about the creatures and plants living there! walk through mosaicanada i keep talking about this event, but it’s for good reason. if you haven’t been, it’s worth checking out. it’s free and stunning. attend the navan fair i love a rural fair. probably because i grew up where every summer you couldn’t wait to attend the fair. i also love deep fried mini donuts. the navan fair is august 10-13! check out the ottawa busker festival i always find it fun when we are able to see art, acting, music and more on the streets, up close and out in the open. the ottawa busker fest is sure to have the kids in awe as they watch! it’s on sparks street from august 3-7! happy august! rebecca 3 min read june 20, 2017 4 replies family travel: bloggers share their fave summer destinations around ottawa are you planning some summer travel? now that the school year is almost ending, many of us are turning to look at our vacation time and summer days to see where we should go as a family. i asked local ottawa bloggers for some of their favourite places to check out as mini toad trips in the area or staycations with the family. here’s what they told me: _______________________ “calypso! we are long-time fans of calypso theme waterpark. we never let a summer pass us by without spending at least one day at this water playground for kids of all ages. it’s truly one of our favourite places to spend time on a hot summer’s day. it’s a water park full of adventure for everyone in the family – no matter what your idea of adventure is! we have our season’s passes all ready to go for the summer of 2017! can’t wait!” -sandi, canadian blog house read about her calypso experience here. “upper canada! so much fun for the whole family. interesting to see the kids reactions when they learn how things worked in the 1800’s – no internet? how did you learn things?” -ashley, tales of mommyhood read more about upper canada village on ashley’s blog (editor’s note: go for the freshly baked bread and stay for the fun) “lusk cave! we’ve gone as a family a few times and always enjoyed it. it requires a bit of gumption and bravery, but the light at the end of the tunnel and the feeling of accomplishment that comes with it… amazing!” -andrea, a peek inside the fishbowl read about her adventures to lusk cave here. “i did a mini bike tour along the rideau canal. my family loves to travel along this national historic site as we get some exercise in. the views along each side of the canal are breathtaking, and watching the locks from each end of my tour is a sight to see.” -lian, reese speaks check out her blog post about her trek, including a mapped route! “eco-odyssee. it’s a great way to spend time together as a family ( you’re all in a paddle boat) and see nature up close. it’s a beautiful spot and you’ll see things from a different perspective” -sara-lynne, macaroni kid, ottawa capital region see the fun pictures and read more about it on the macaroni kid website! ____________________ thanks everyone for sharing some of your exciting activities to do with the kids this summer! my pick? i have too many! visit my travel section to read about my recommendations for museums to visits, towns to go walk around in, and staycations that everyone can enjoy. family road trip ideas around #ottawa from local bloggers via @bitofmomsense click to tweet rebecca 4 min read march 29, 2017 1 reply winter fun, sweet maple delights and more at parc omega around ottawa the last time we went to parc omega we had a blast. you can read about our adventures and tips here. it was so much fun not only getting to feed carrots to the animals in an up close and personal way, but to learn about the different habitats, species and diverse area that parc omega hosts. it was wonderful to see the passion and care that they put into everything they do and the animals who live there. when they invited us back to check out their maple sugar shack, it was an easy decision for all of us to return. not only did we realize that this was a great way to spend some time outdoors as the snow was still on the ground (and we were sulking about it), but also, i am always ready for some maple taffy. this time of year is when the maple sap is flowing and maple syrup producers are busy. the sugar shack at parc omega is unique in that it’s a smaller production and uses old-school techniques. sap is collected by hand with buckets on the trees, and boiled in a wooden shack. it reminded me of when my grandfather would collect sap and boil it outside in a giant pot. that syrup always had a bit more smokiness to the flavour, it was often darker and delicious in a different way than what we can get at the store. the syrup at parc omega was like my childhood. we were treated to maple taffy (a huge hit with my family, always) and we tucked into the tabled cabin with a wood burning fire place to warm up while we ate. the sugar shack area is a central hub for the walking, cross country skiing and snowshoeing trails making it the perfect mini stop if you are out and about. naturally, while the maple syrup area was a highlight for me, getting to see the animals was a huge attraction for the kids. i can’t tell you how many times each of them told us they were having a great time. we saw a black bear who was recently out of hibernation, and learned about the elks and deer losing their antlers and growing them back at this time of year. we saw baby boars (which were adorable!) and learned about the timber wolves during a feeding presentation. we also got a peek at their new lumber camp which has tables for eating, a place to warm up and a food counter. this is an area that is expanding in the upcoming months and by summertime it sounds like it’s going to be another exciting area to check out, grab a bite and relax in between all of the excitement. stop by the lumber camp if you want to rent snow shoes and head to the sugar shack! the sugar shack will be open until april 2, unless the snow sticks around, then they may extend the opening. even as the weather warms up, you’ll find plenty to do at parc omega. visit the animals, grab a bite to eat (there is a new menu that currently includes a lot of tasty bites!) and attend educational demonstrations and shows to learn more about the animals around. don’t forget! bring plenty of carrots or grab some bags at the main lodge of parc omega! the animals (and your kids) will thank you! visit #parcomega to enjoy the sugar shack (and of course the animals!) via @bitofmomsense #outaouaisfun click to tweet disclosure: parc omega invited us to attend and gave us tickets and lunch. all opinions are my own. thank you parc omega for the fun visit! rebecca 1 min read january 26, 2017 no reply pd day plans at the nepean creative arts centre around ottawa january 30 is a pd day for many kids in the ottawa area. if you are home with them that day, you might be looking for something to do to keep them busy. the nepean creative arts centre has a suggestion – head to the theatre for a rag and bone puppet theatre performance! we’ve been to these performances before and always enjoy ourselves! beginning at 1:30 pm, the show, the flying canoe, is a family friendly performance that has magical creatures that will delight kids aged 4-11. a talking cat…the devil at a dance …a bear in a canoe …magical creatures …a fantastic and fun introduction to the culture, music and language* of the first francophones in canada-the voyageurs, the loggers, the trappers and farm families-whose humour, imagination and courage helped found our very own community. featuring puppets, early film footage, traditional songs & music. and lots of curriculum connections! the story of the flying canoe, la chasse-galerie, was first published in canada in 1900 by honoré beaugrand. this well-known french canadian tale is the centrepiece of our play about the myths, legends, and daily life in early french canada. *mostly in english, with a soupçon of french. -nepean creative arts centre tickets are $10 each or $32 for 4. tickets are available online or at the door. for more information, visit the facebook event page. to buy tickets, visit the ticket page! *ncac is a blog advertiser rebecca 2 min read january 16, 2017 no reply musuem membership – two museums in ottawa we’ll be visiting more often around ottawa we recently went to see the napoleon and paris special exhibit at the canadian museum of history. that day, we decided to buy a family membership that would allow the four of us to get into not only the history museum but also the war museum throughout the year. not only did we see the napoleon exhibit, but we also went to the deadly skies exhibit (at the war museum) which was really fascinating. the pass was about $100, and includes a discount for parking, at the souvenir store, and the cafes, plus, our entry into the museums. that’s a pretty great package deal, and they have many different options for families and caregivers. tip: the war museum cafe is an amazing place to go for breakfast! we’re no strangers to the museums, although we have spent more time at the children’s musuem than the history museum (a fact that i plan to remedy this spring or summer!). each time we go, we learn something new and the kids always end up with so many excellent questions. i love their enthusiasm, and now with our memberships, i like that we can go more frequently, even for short trips (which with our schedules, sometimes works best!) i had a pass for the history museum when the kids were little, and not in school full time (we also had passes to the science/aviation/agriculture museums!). when they weren’t at home with me during the day as school began, i paused our memberships. but their thirst for knowledge and museum fun never went away. as the kids have gotten older, their interest in all things museum related has grown. and we love that! i’m happy we picked up the family passes. now i just have to check out the websites frequently to see what special events are coming up that we can to check out. while our annual passes don’t include imax admission (although you could buy a yearly pass for that too), we can still check out the films during the year (and with the tiny giants show that the kids want to see, we may have to!) i look forward to using our membership this year! rebecca 6 min read november 8, 2016 no reply family travel: surprises await at parc omega around ottawa, family travel visiting parc omega, just outside of ottawa this summer, my family and i were invited to take a tour of parc omega by outaouais tourism. believe it or not, we had never been there before! like anyone living in the ottawa-gatineau region, we were certainly familiar with parc omega and know lots of friends and family who had been over the years but hadn’t made the trip. what we didn’t realize was just how much parc omega has to offer! we took the 1 hour drive from ottawa to parc omega on a crisp, late-summer morning and were immediately impressed with what we saw. after passing the entrance gate, we went directly to the park house – restaurant and gift shop to look around before starting our tour. in those brief moments, while we watched a family of red foxes being fed and got to see a young fawn close up, the kids quickly fell in love. it didn’t take andy or myself very long to understand why parc omega is so popular with families and begin to wonder why we hadn’t been before. we had the good fortune of being taken on our tour by head zoologist and park ambassador, serge lussier. over the course of a couple of hours, serge took us through parts of what parc omega’s 2,200 acres has to offer. this includes a 15 km car trail through the park where you’ll find over 15 species of animals living in habitat that is representative of much of canada’s wilderness such as forests, meadows, hills, lakes and even our northern regions. here are a few of the thoughts we had and surprises that we discovered while visiting: feeding and interacting with the animals – we knew to expect that the animals would be coming up close to be fed (we brought our own carrots to feed them, but you can buy them right at parc omega for a reasonable price). this was the best surprise for the kids, i think. we had told them how it would work ahead of time, but being this close to the animals really got them excited. what was surprising was the number and variety of animals that we met along the way. experiencing wildlife and nature up close and personal –the animals are living more or less as they do in the wild. most of the large herbivores (e.g., elk, deer) are free to roam around the park. while others, including predatory animals, are kept in areas that are fenced off, their habitats are large and created to be like their natural settings. as serge toured us around parc omega, we were impressed to learn how the park decides on these habitat areas and how they carefully incorporate the animals in such a natural setting. we found it to be the perfect escape from the city and helped us appreciate the country and space we live in even more. this is a journey – we planned to be at parc omega for few hours before heading over to meet my parents for a weekend in montebello. this wasn’t nearly enough time. we easily could have spent the entire day there. we expected to quickly drive through the path, with our carrots, feeding the animals, and then leave shortly thereafter. we were completely surprised by the size and scale of the park and all it has to offer. expect the driving tour of parc omega to take at least an hour and half depending on how busy it is and how much time you take to feed and view the animals. in additional to the driving tour (you use your own car for a self-guided tour), there are interactive presentations, hiking trails, and a picnic area (where deer like to join you!) that features a unique playground and the “enchanted house”. the first nations trail – this area recognizes the important relationship that our first nations share with the environment. here you’ll find totems that represent the 11 first nations in quebec. there is a hiking trail around trout lake where you can view the totems and learn more about each first nation community. this area was peaceful and stunning. tips for planning a visit to parc omega getting to parc omega is a breeze. the drive from downtown ottawa is about an hour. simply take autoroute 50 east from gatineau to exit 210 (montebello / mont tremblant) and turn right (north) from the exit onto qc-323. park omega is just beyond the bend. plan to spend a lot of time. there is so much to explore that you won’t want to rush. take a hike. there are trails to follow and the scenery is gorgeous. pack a picnic – or buy a bite to eat. you can picnic outside with the deer, but if the weather isn’t cooperating, we had a bite to eat at the restaurant and it was well priced and very tasty, plus the menu had something for all of us to enjoy. go at any time of year. parc omega is open year round (visit the website for details) and while we enjoyed a nice summer day for our visit, i think the changing colours of the fall leaves would be a stunning time to go, and the winter would be a fun time to explore the park as well. you can stay overnight. during certain times of the year you can rent cabins and lodging for an overnight visit. this would be so much fun! you can bring your own carrots to feed the animals (1 bag per kid is what i would recommend!) but when we went, there were bags available at the main lodge for the same price that i paid at the grocery store. have fun! this is an educational way to connect with canadian nature and as a family we had a wonderful time. for more photos and thoughts, watch my video! disclosure: i was given tickets by the outaouais tourism but all opinions are our own. rebecca 1 min read january 9, 2012 2 replies around ottawa: canada aviation and space museum parenting an older picture, the kids still love to go! in the cold of winter ottawa still has a lot of places to take the kids. we are big fans of the museums (including the agriculture museum – the barns are still open!). but one of our go-to places is the aviation museum. it’s big and open with giant, interesting things to see and talk about. the kids love walking around and are impressed with the scale of some of the planes and vehicles. it gives us a chance to answer questions that they may have and to ask questions of them. what is different about these two planes? do you remember the last time you were in an airplane? which one is your favourite? there is a children’s room with toys and games to keep them busy, especially with young ones who may want to play for a minute. the theatre has special showings (although we haven’t been to one yet) and there is thursday story time. it remains one of our favourite places to go and the kids are always asking about it! i like that it’s in a good location with lots of free parking and is a great way to spend some time with the family! for more information, admission and location information check out the canada aviation and space museum. also, check out this activity to do with the kids before or after your trip! activity: planes and helicopters rebecca 1 min read november 9, 2011 2 replies around ottawa: a drive to merrickville parenting after school pick up (which is in the morning), we made a quick stop at starbucks and drove to merrickville (located on the rideau canal) with the kiddos. we’ve been there before (and were there a lot pre-children), so we knew what to expect. on a beautiful day like this, it was a nice opportunity to take a drive, picnic outside, play in the leaves and shop the little local stores a bit. highlights always include ice cream and fudge at country bumpkins. it’s about an hour and 15 minutes south of ottawa. there are multiple restaurants (although, with the kids, we weren’t there for a restaurant meal) and lots of cute shops to check out. most of which have christmas decorations and gifts at the ready. stop by the small, but affordable and lovely millers of merrickville, located right on the corner of the main street. it was a full and fun afternoon, and if you get the chance, i recommend you check it out. there aren’t loads of parks and kid-specific places to play, but as a family we like just spending the time wondering around and taking in the drive. for a fun, family-friendly event, check out christmas in merrickville, all day on saturday, december 3. there will be barrel fires, snacks, hot chocolate and wagon rides. rebecca 2 min read october 13, 2011 no reply around ottawa: cannamore orchard parenting thanksgiving weekend had unusually warm weather and lots of sun so after our big turkey meal with the family on sunday, we decided to head to cannamore orchard on monday for some fun. we have been here before when our children were younger and with the niece/nephews so we kind of new what to expect. lots of outdoor areas to play, some spooky halloween stuff, wagon rides, apples and pumpkins. just what we wanted! it’s about a 30 minute drive east of orleans to get to cannamore orchard. i was completely shocked that it wasn’t swamped with people – given the holiday and the weather. but while there were a lot, it wasn’t overcrowded. we started with the cow barrel tractor ride and andy and i had as much fun on that as the kids. then we visited the mini-mazes. there aren’t a lot, but for young ones it was good. the dark one spooked me out and my son wished there were more and more (they are growing some we did hear!). we spent some time in the play area which has a wooden train, a pipe maze and a gazebo covered huge sand box with a lot of toys. there are a lot of picnic tables on site and they encourage you to bring your own snacks (which we did for the kids) but we also got some fries and hot dogs at the chip stand. after a quick lunch outside in the shade, we went on a different wagon ride through some of the ‘spooky’ parts of the property – there are skeletons, grave sites and zombie masks around. plus, we passed a lot of the orchards which were extremely aromatic. we bought some apples and pumpkins and were on our way home. it was a really fun day and we were happy to go. details: about 30 minutes from ottawa somewhat stroller friendly very child friendly for almost all ages cost: 2 and under are free, family of 4 $40. there was our family (2 adults, 1 child, 1 child 2 and under) plus grandma visiting so we just had to buy the family of 4 pass. verdict: fall fun had by all! (note: there are evening activities that are far spookier – haunted house and spooky wagon ride!) facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.