home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. we and the color home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style home art art for all who want to know the latest news from the world of art, this is the category that keeps you up to date! we feature talented artists from all over the world and provide you with information on current and forthcoming exhibitions. whether timeless masterpieces or modern art, we show you the very best from different artistic fields. for artist features and exhibition announcements, please write to meandyou@weandthecolor.com. latest latest featured posts most popular 7 days popular by review score random art unreal spaces—paintings by artist guim tió unreal spaces, a series of oil paintings by barcelona-based artist guim tió zarraluki. you may remember our earlier feature... art jeffrey chong wang solo show at gallery house in toronto the other side of now: new artworks by jeffrey chong wang will be on display at a solo show at toronto's gallery... art sublime affliction: paintings by artist connor addison discover british artist connor addison and his series of paintings called "sublime affliction". after studying painting at central st... art botanical inspiration: nature in art and illustration botanical inspiration: nature in art and illustration, a book by the art and design publishing house viction:ary. published just... art earthcoast geo abstract collection by sans & sons download the new abstract collection by sans & sons including a wide range of geometric shapes and lines as well as pre-made... art markerdrawings by dutch artist thomas trum markerdrawings, a series of paintings by dutch artist thomas trum that masterfully combine art and design. thomas trum... art agglomerations — drawings by felipe bedoya agglomerations, a collection of surreal drawings by felipe bedoya. the drawings by felipe bedoya reflect the psychological and emotional... art “body beautiful”—group show at the untitled space “body beautiful”, a group show that features 50 contemporary artists exploring what body positive means to them. curated by indira... art stefan zsaitsits: ‘trembling traces’ drawings 'trembling traces', a series of surreal dreamlike drawings created by stefan zsaitsits. stefan zsaitsits is an illustrator and painter... art elastic bonding by artist malin bülow at multiplié dance festival elastic bonding: malin bülow creates stretchy installations of textile structures and slowly moving bodies for the project space at lademoen kunstnerverksteder in... art catalog design by studio mut for inside lottozero graphic design and branding agency studio mut produced the exhibition catalog for inside lottozero in the form of a solid brick made... art top 10 art blogs you should follow in 2020 and beyond discover 10 of the best art blogs to follow in 2020 and beyond to get news on current trends and notable exhibitions. 123...74page 1 of 74 email by continuing, you accept the privacy policy editor picks 10 free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 top graphic designers on instagram to follow for creative inspiration popular posts central park infrared/aerochrome photos i am an actor by franck bohbot lane coder – underwater photography popular category design4038 graphic design2565 recommendations1479 branding1427 illustration1384 fonts895 photography892 art880 templates548 about us we and the color is a web magazine for your daily art and design inspiration. we feature outstanding projects of various creative fields. in addition, you can find trendy graphics, templates, and fonts for download. read more here. contact us: meandyou@weandthecolor.com follow us legal information privacy advertisement © copyright 2019 we and the color – all rights reserved this website uses cookies to improve your experience. by continuing, you are agreeing to our terms of use.accept read more privacy & cookies policy close necessary always enabled