high-quality prints of public domain works and original contemporary art from the brain pickings editorial archive. art pickings 1 of 8 — next » french artist paul sougy’s stunning mid-century scientific diagrams of plants, animals, and the human body, forgotten for decades, newly salvaged from dusty vintage textbooks and obscure french government archives. see more at the link. french artist paul sougy’s stunning mid-century scientific diagrams of plants, animals, and the human body, forgotten for decades, newly salvaged from dusty vintage textbooks and obscure french government archives. see more at the link. french artist paul sougy’s stunning mid-century scientific diagrams of plants, animals, and the human body, forgotten for decades, newly salvaged from dusty vintage textbooks and obscure french government archives. see more at the link. french artist paul sougy’s stunning mid-century scientific diagrams of plants, animals, and the human body, forgotten for decades, newly salvaged from dusty vintage textbooks and obscure french government archives. see more at the link. “every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you,” walt whitman wrote in one of his profoundest verses, in a golden age of science and social change, yet an era at least as divisive as ours. this stunning cyanotype painting by artist lia halloran, celebrating whitman’s immortal words, is available as a print with 100% of proceeds benefiting the endeavor to build nyc’s first public observatory – an ultimate invitation to unforget our shared humanity under the dome of the cosmic perspective. get yours at the link. art by ofra amit from a velocity of being: letters to a young reader. cover art by ping zhu for a velocity of being: letters to a young reader. art by olivier tallec from a velocity of being: letters to a young reader. art by shaun tan from a velocity of being: letters to a young reader. art by mouni feddag from a velocity of being: letters to a young reader. art by sophie blackall from a velocity of being: letters to a young reader. art by daniel salmieri from a velocity of being: letters to a young reader. art by judith clay from a velocity of being: letters to a young reader. art by cindy derby from a velocity of being: letters to a young reader. art by catarina sobral from a velocity of being: letters to a young reader. tumblr theme inspired by otlet's shelf.