home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads how arthur rackham’s 1907 drawings for alice in wonderland revolutionized the carroll classic, the technology of book art, and the economics of illustration arthur rackham’s stunning 1926 illustrations for “the tempest” beautiful vintage illustrations for scheherazade’s stories and scandinavian fairy tales by swedish modernist pioneer gan labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks arthur rackham’s rare and revolutionary 1917 illustrations for the brothers grimm fairy tales amid the thickest darkness of world war i, a luminous beacon of the magical inside the macabre. by maria popova “his face was wizened and wrinkled like a ripe walnut, and as he peered short sightedly at me out of his goggle spectacles i thought he was one of the goblins out of grimm’s fairy tales.” this is how his nephew walter remembers thirty-something arthur rackham (september 19, 1867–september 6, 1939) — one of the most creatively influential and commercially inventive illustrators of all time. the aesthetic accuracy of the then-teenager’s recollection may be suspect, but one thing is certain — rackham was deeply animated by the grimm spirit and was at the time consumed by the famed stories. in 1900, seven years before he revolutionized the business of book art with alice in wonderland, rackham set out to illustrate a special edition of the brothers grimm fairy tales. he had just met the painter edyth starkie, young walter’s aunt, over a garden fence. edyth, whom he would soon marry, not only influenced rackham’s aesthetic but bolstered his confidence, encouraging him to deviate from tradition and develop a style all his own. it was in those early grimm illustrations that rackham began honing the singular sensibility for which he is now remembered and which has since influenced generations of artists. one of rackham’s early color plates for the brothers grimm fairy tales by 1909, he had added 40 color plates to the line drawings from his first grimm edition. in 1917, amid the thickest darkness of world war i, rackham returned to the grimms — those supreme patron saints of the magical inside the macabre. this time, he interpreted the centuries-old tales differently: where his first edition had been unapologetically violent and grim, the new one radiated what the human spirit most needed amid the hopelessness, destruction, and desecration of the war — beauty, enchantment, charm, hope, even humor. the result, of which i was fortunate enough to track down one of the few surviving copies, was little brother & little sister (public library) — a selection of the grimms’ most beloved and hopeful tales, published in a lavish limited edition of 525 copies each signed by rackham, who was already one of the most widely known and successful illustrators of his time. the true sweetheart: “the third time, she wore the star-dress which sparkled at every step.” the true sweetheart the old woman in the wood: “suddenly the branches twined round her and turned into two arms.” (available as a print.) wishing-table, gold-ass, and cudgel: “gold pieces fell down on the cloth like a thunder shower.” snow-white and rose-red: “this end of his beard was caught in a crack in a tree.” the cunning little taylor: “when the bear heard the music he could not help beginning to dance.” the gnomes: “he played until the room was entirely filled with gnomes.” the nose tree: “they came at last to their poor old friend.” the little people’s presents: “what did she find there but real ripe strawberries.” the three army-surgeons spindle, shuttle, and needle: “the waiting maid sprang down first and maid maleen followed.” the young giant: “when her husband saw her, she shouted, ‘hi! come to me here.'” fitcher’s bird: “he hurried away with long strides.” fitcher’s bird: “at last she met the bridegroom who was coming slowly back.” how six men got on in the world the hut in the forest: “she begged quite prettily to be allowed to spend the night there.” frontispiece: “she took off her golden garter and put it round the roe-buck’s neck.” beginning with his alice in wonderland edition, rackham had invented a new business model — each of his books was published in a small run of lavish, beautifully bound, signed, expensive gift copies, and a large run of affordable mass-market ones. but, like many pioneers, he was unprepared for his own success — the limited editions became so prized and popular that people were clamoring to own them despite the premium price, all but neglecting the standard editions. rackham himself remarked: there is such a fashion for publishing only limited editions that my books are in a rather curious position. the ordinary editions do not sell so large a number as of old, & the limiteds are vastly over-applied for. and yet rackham’s lamentation speaks to the ideal intersection of art and commerce — making something so beautiful and so valuable to people that it’s impossible for the artist to keep up with the demand. my own copy came with this endearing inscription to a young miss evelyn horton from her mother, bespeaking just how treasured rackham’s books were and embodying his pioneering model of the gift book as an artifact and a loving gesture: complement little brother & little sister with the best illustrations of the brothers grimm in the century since rackham, then revisit his visionary take on alice in wonderland. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published february 29, 2016 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2016/02/29/arthur-rackham-brothers-grimm/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under artarthur rackhambooksbrothers grimmcultureillustrationout of printrare books view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.