skip to content skip to footer nia shanks health and fitness information that doesn't suck newsletter start here starter guide finally get results course articles all articles audio articles about shop books workout programs apparel login my profile articles your at-home workout guide march 20, 2020 by nia shanks whether you prefer to work out at home, or it's the only option you have, this at-home workout guide has you covered. below are resources you can turn to for your at-home workout needs; options vary based on the workout equipment you have available. let's start with the option that doesn't require any equipment. bodyweight-only workouts don't have any exercise equipment at home? then … [read more...] about your at-home workout guide free 8-week suspension trainer program march 16, 2020 by nia shanks yes, this 8-week suspension trainer program is free. no, you don't even have to give me your email address to access it. what is the 8-week program? this is an 8-week strength training program that uses a suspension trainer. it is currently included with the revamp program as a free thank-you gift, but i want to make it available to everyone for the foreseeable future, since tons of people … [read more...] about free 8-week suspension trainer program the dark side of health and fitness goals february 24, 2020 by nia shanks you can listen to this article. use the player below, download the mp3, or use itunes. what is a health or fitness goal you’re currently pursuing? do you have a specific number of pounds you want to shed or waist circumference you want to reach? are you working on running a 5k at a faster pace? want to deadlift your bodyweight or working on getting your first bodyweight pull-up? whether … [read more...] about the dark side of health and fitness goals 9 ways to know you should stop focusing on fat loss january 31, 2020 by nia shanks you can listen to this article. use the player below, download the mp3, or use itunes. to be clear, this is not an argument against pursuing fat loss to improve your health, or confidence, or because you want to increase muscle definition. problems arise, however, when fat loss turns into a dominating obsession. when it’s the only reason you exercise and make healthful food choices, and it … [read more...] about 9 ways to know you should stop focusing on fat loss 6 unpopular truths about fitness-focused new year’s resolutions december 27, 2019 by nia shanks you can listen to this article. use the player below, download the mp3, or listen on itunes. this is not the typical lose weight fast! or finally get in the best shape of your life! how-to new year’s resolutions article. haven’t you done something similar, perhaps numerous times before, for a new year’s resolution? if you’ve tried the usual resolutions -- lose weight, get “bikini ready” by … [read more...] about 6 unpopular truths about fitness-focused new year’s resolutions how to not feel guilty for eating your favorite foods december 10, 2019 by nia shanks you can listen to this article: use the player below, download the mp3 or listen on itunes. it’s pretty screwed up that feeling guilty after eating any food is even an optional response. yet so many of us do it. the countless health and fitness sources creating information that feeds this terrible habit certainly don’t help. there’s the good/bad dichotomy used to label foods (e.g.: calling … [read more...] about how to not feel guilty for eating your favorite foods make health and fitness the empowering lifestyle it should be november 1, 2019 by nia shanks listen to this episode. use the player below, download it, or listen on itunes. what was the last book (or article) you read that was extremely helpful? it struck a chord and you finished it feeling like you had a solid plan. you felt confident and, finally, knew exactly what to do going forward. at first you felt unstoppable, armed with this new plan and information. then not too long … [read more...] about make health and fitness the empowering lifestyle it should be the 100-day reclaim book is here october 29, 2019 by nia shanks listen to this short article using the player below, download the mp3, or listen on itunes. when was the last time you felt guilty because you ate a favorite dessert or meal? have you ever wondered why feeling guilty after eating our favorite foods, or any food, is even an optional response? when did you last use a workout as punishment, perhaps for overindulging or missing several … [read more...] about the 100-day reclaim book is here page 1 page 2 page 3 … page 48 next page » footer if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. fields marked with a * are required. join the revolution get updates, insider-only information, and a free gift. if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. facebook instagram twitter youtube search this website © 2020 nia shanks · privacy policy · disclaimer newsletter you’re here for a reason contact store