skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow our enchanting smashing articles all smashing magazine's articles, sorted chronologically. over 12 years, we've published 3465 articles, written by 1484 hard-working authors. still counting. chidi orji wrote implementing infinite scroll and image lazy loading in react 15 min read no meows just yet march 16, 2020 — in this tutorial, we’re going to learn how to use the html intersection observer api to implement infinite scrolling and image lazy loading in a react functional component. in the process, we’ll learn how to use some of react’s hooks and how to create custom hooks. read more… iris lješnjanin wrote stay calm and read smashing magazine 12 min read no meows just yet march 13, 2020 — it’s that time of the month! join us as we share the latest news and highlight the things we’ve been working on and have also enjoyed reading over the past month. read more… rachel andrew wrote rescheduling smashingconf sf and looking out for each other 5 min read no meows just yet march 12, 2020 — we are sad to have to reschedule smashingconf sf, however we are working to find ways to be with our community virtually until we can all meet up again. read more… carie fisher wrote accessible svgs: inclusiveness beyond patterns 14 min read no meows just yet march 12, 2020 — we are fortunate to have robust patterns to choose from when optimizing accessibility in svgs — but most people stop there, focusing on code compliance and not actual users and their needs. if true inclusiveness lies beyond patterns — what other factors should we … read more… darshan somashekar wrote creating secure password flows with nodejs and mysql 11 min read no meows just yet march 11, 2020 — with the help of using nodejs and mysql, learn how to successfully create a secure reset password flow so you can avoid these pitfalls. read more… vitaly friedman wrote make honest design work for digital business, with “ethical design handbook” 11 min read no meows just yet march 10, 2020 — meet “ethical design handbook”, our new practical guide on how to help companies grow sustainably with honest digital products. without dark patterns, with ethics in mind, and ready for gdpr and ccpa. read more… leonardo losoviz wrote building an e-commerce site with october cms and shopaholic 14 min read no meows just yet march 10, 2020 — the laravel-powered october cms enables to extend the functionality of the application through the use of plugins. in this article we will learn how to create an e-commerce site through one of october’s most popular plugins, shopaholic. read more… drew mclellan wrote smashing podcast episode 11 with eduardo bouças: what is sourcebit? 20 min read no meows just yet march 10, 2020 — in this episode of the smashing podcast we’re talking about an interesting open-source tool called sourcebit. how can it help our content workflow with jamstack sites? drew mclellan speaks to developer eduardo bouças to find out. read more… barry pollard wrote setting height and width on images is important again 17 min read no meows just yet march 9, 2020 — thanks to some recent changes in browsers, it’s now well worth setting width and height attributes on your images to prevent layout shifts and improve the experience of your site visitors. read more… sandamal siripathi wrote avoid keyboard event-related bugs in browser-based transliteration 9 min read no meows just yet march 6, 2020 — transliteration is a popular way to input non-english characters using an english keyboard. this article explains a new method to eliminate such browser-related problems when developing web apps that use transliteration. read more… previous 1 2 3 4 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top