artistic doors & windows home furnishing home services digital marketing think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 artistic doors & windows marketing artistic doors & windows sells more custom doors and windows with a new website and seo. artistic doors & windows provides top-quality custom windows and doors that are both durable and beautiful. staffed with designers, engineers, and project managers, the company has over 30 years of experience in both residential and commercial industries. logo web design seo pay per click the challenge the site for artistic doors & windows had to be image-heavy to please the potential clients, but still have enough content to please google. the site also had to serve as an online portfolio and showcase their best products. the plan design and develop a brand new website launch a content rich seo campaign add the company’s portfolio to the site launch a ppc remarketing campaign to bring customer’s back the results 0% increase in average time on site 0% increase in organic search traffic 0% increase in click-through rate (ctr) new artisticdoors windows website design done by smartsites updated background image for artisticdoors windows by smartsites artisticdoors windows updated website design done by smartsites get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha phone this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated smartsites is a one stop shop to outsource your website, online marketing and also content. the staff is very knowledgeable and also responsive. englewood cliffs news william woo view 100+ more testimonials they did a great job and i noticed the positive results almost immediately. they are professional and very pleasant to work with. they had responded to all my emails within 1 hour window. i am very happy with the services provided and i highly recommend to everyone. new jersey mediation maryana kanda view 100+ more testimonials smartsites showed me great results fast and now they run google adwords, bing ads, and facebook ads for me. smartsites also manages the website and seo initiatives. we recently expanded our third location and continue to drive appointments through the digital marketing. studio esthetique vladimir byhovsky view 100+ more testimonials i had a great experience working with smartsites and wouldn’t hesitate to recommend them. the level of customer service, marketing skills, and efficiency was beyond the scope of my expectations! perfect dashboard bartek jaz view 100+ more testimonials they have a team approach that allows them to efficiently work on your projects. their methods of communication is efficient as well. in the midst of working on our project now and already impressed! i would suggest smart sites to anyone looking for an all around great web development company. easw andy holst view 100+ more testimonials after a nightmare experience with other marketing companies, i finally found a hard working group who actually know what they are doing. they handle all of my ads as and designed a website. business has doubled since we started. looking forward to more success. agape health wellness center dr. larry bennett view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: case studies artistic doors & windows recent posts posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect