home nanodegree catalog my classroom category: artificial intelligence announcements, artificial intelligence, featured blogs introducing udacity’s first executive program: ai for business leaders start learning udacity is thrilled to introduce our first executive program — the ai for business leaders executive program, built in partnership with bmw. executive programs are intensive, strategically-focused programs that empower business leaders to rapidly understand complex and technical concepts, like artificial intelligence, and apply these concepts to high-stakes decision-making in real-world business scenarios. what exactly is udacity’s new executive program, ai for business leaders? gabe dalporto, ceo of udacity, offers a great explanation of the value of this program: ”udacity ‘executive programs’ are an exciting addition to our curriculum that teach leaders and executives the fundamentals of a particular technology, like artificial intelligence, and go deep into the key questions and strategic implications they should be considering around the application of these technologies in their organization. in contrast, our nanodegree programs teach hands-on, practitioner-level skills to those who will be implementing a specific technology.” continue reading announcements, artificial intelligence, featured blogs, school of ai introducing the intro to machine learning with tensorflow nanodegree program start learning the field of machine learning continues to boast incredible job growth, salaries, and skill sets that can be used in many different industries. google utilizes this technology in their cloud product to allow startups to build machine learning models that work on data of any size, while ge utilizes iot to help detect and prevent anomalies and crashes in their products. these are just a snapshot of the numerous applications of machine learning in the market today that display the potential for an exponential amount of professional expansion. currently, just in the us alone, there are over 50,000 open roles for machine learning professionals, so now is the time to develop machine learning expertise! in linkedin’s 2020 emerging jobs report, ai specialist, a role that includes machine learning, deep learning, tensorflow, and python as key skills, boasts 74% annual growth. all of the above skills are incorporated into udacity’s new intro to machine learning with tensorflow nanodegree program, which is a great way to get introduced to the fundamentals of machine learning, including areas like manipulating data, supervised & unsupervised learning, and deep learning. so what is tensorflow, and how is it being utilized today? tensorflow is a deep learning framework made by google for creating machine learning (ml) models that use multi-layer neural networks. the tensorflow library allows users to perform functions by creating computational graphs. airbnb utilizes tensorflow to improve the guest experience to categorize listing photos by classifying images and detecting objects at scale. coca-cola uses tensorflow to enable mobile proof-of-purchase at scale, while paypal uses tensorflow to detect fraud, and twitter uses tensorflow to rank tweets, highlighting the broad and powerful range of applications. continue reading announcements, artificial intelligence, tech trends and your company, udacity for enterprise announcing our newest client: global consulting leader accenture learn more since we launched udacity’s enterprise business in 2017, a growing number of companies have enrolled their employees in udacity’s nanodegree programs, indicating that leading organizations are increasingly investing in udacity’s nanodegree programs to upskill their own employees while helping to close the talent gap in the labor market. we’re proud to have partnered with fortune 500 companies to help them transform their workforces. today, we’re thrilled to announce our latest partnership with the worldwide consulting leader accenture. learning with udacity supports accenture’s mission to help solve their clients’ toughest challenges. through this pilot program, selected accenture employees will have the opportunity to enroll in one of five udacity nanodegree programs in pioneering technology subjects such as self-driving cars, deep learning, deep reinforcement learning, machine learning, and computer vision. when i met with udacity graduates at accenture last month, we spoke about the changing nature of industries worldwide. transportation, for instance, is undergoing multiple parallel changes with the advent of electric and self-driving cars, as well as new ridesharing models. lifelong learning is a crucial tool that enables students to catch up to the latest in these fields. by becoming expert learners in subjects such as self-driving cars and machine learning, students will be able to move in tandem with these innovations, remaining on the pulse, and transition into new capabilities as experts in their fields. andrew smith, managing director and head of industry x.0 at accenture, completed udacity’s deep learning nanodegree program earlier this year. “continuous learning is important in every job. but in consulting it is vital to stay ahead, especially as the speed of technological advancement accelerates every day,” he said. “udacity’s programs teach the exact tech skills we need at accenture. they offer a great learning experience that can be flexibly integrated into your schedule regardless of location and course hours.” by launching this pilot program with accenture, udacity is taking another step towards our mission to power careers through tech education. a warm welcome to all the new learners at accenture. we look forward to watching your continued progress and seeing what you will build. thank you for learning with udacity! learn more artificial intelligence, tech trends and your company, udacity for enterprise bridging the ai skills gap webinar recap last week, we held our bridging the ai skills gap webinar featuring varun ganapathi, head of our ai and data engineering and mat leonard, product lead for our school of artificial intelligence. the conversation centered on five key areas: ai vs machine learning vs deep learning how companies are using these technologies today? skills gap and talent shortage common use cases and outcomes how to overcome the skills gap ai, machine learning, and deep learning are easily confused and overlap with each other. the panel did a good job of breaking down the definitions: ai means getting a computer to mimic human behavior in some way. machine learning is a subset of ai, and it consists of the techniques that enable computers to figure things out from the data and deliver ai applications. deep learning, meanwhile, is a subset of machine learning that enables computers to solve more complex problems. “ai is any technology that enables a system to demonstrate human-like intelligence,” explained varun ganapathi. “machine learning (ml) is one type of ai that uses mathematical models trained on data to make decisions. as more data becomes available, ml models can make better decisions.” watch webinar recording today, different ai technologies are finding a place in various industries. for instance, banking and financial services companies are using chatbots or virtual assistants to help customers with routine tasks like scheduling payments, automate most frequently asked questions. predictive analytics’ to reduce the risk of loan defaulters. machine learning to identify patterns of transactions that might indicate fraudulent activity. the expanding applications for ai continues to create a shortage of qualified workers in the field. ai is moving fast and enterprises need talent today. however, not just any talent. what once was a shortage of coding and software engineering expertise has now evolved into an overall shortage of skills in machine learning, robotics and algorithmic engineering. “if you’re considering working in ai as a data scientist or machine learning engineer you need to find a good starting point, and it starts with knowing python, c++, and learning mainstream deep learning libraries like tensorflow or pytorch,“ said mat leonard, product lead at udacity’s school of artificial intelligence. ai and machine learning are driving innovation and transformation. they are embedded in how we sift through large volumes of data and content and how we interact, connect, and buy today. they are the engines underlying many of our products and services. hear more from varun and mat about steps your organization can take to embrace ai and close the skills gap. listen now. artificial intelligence, udacity for enterprise how to get started in ai artificial intelligence (ai) enters our lives in many different ways. ai makes it possible for machines to learn from experience, adjust to new inputs and perform human-like tasks. most ai examples that you hear about today – from chess-playing computers to self-driving cars – rely heavily on deep learning. deep learning is a branch of machine learning utilizing giant neural networks and massive data sets. using these technologies, computers can be trained to accomplish specific tasks by processing large amounts of data and recognizing patterns in the data. artificial intelligence is growing exponentially in all the major sectors, including health, social media analysis, self-driving cars, language processing and others. the alphago victory is just one of the signs of amazing things to happen. the understanding of artificial intelligence opens lots of opportunities. if you’re considering working in ai as a data scientist or machine learning engineer but need to find a good starting point, here are a few things to consider in your learning journey: get your mathematics strong. you should have some appreciation of the mathematical underpinnings, especially linear algebra and calculus. specifically, you’ll need to be comfortable with matrix multiplication and partial derivatives. to get a development role on an ai team, be sure to have at least one to two years of software development and machine learning experience under your belt. this can include building your own projects or working at a company driving key projects such as image or text classification. a great place to look for machine learning projects is arxiv where researchers often publish their papers. you can sharpen your skills by implementing models and systems from papers that capture your interest. learn python. this handy programming language is the tool of choice for most machine learning engineers and data scientists. python’s syntax is relatively easy to pick up and it has a vibrant and helpful community. the language also has excellent documentation and tons of training resources. with tools such as jupyter notebooks and libraries like numpy and pandas, python has become the first choice for developing machine learning and deep learning applications. outside of machine learning, python is useful for developing websites, videos games, and more. udacity can get you coding in python and building your first neural network in just three months! learn mainstream deep learning libraries like tensorflow or pytorch. most deep learning systems are built in either tensorflow or pytorch, python frameworks that provide apis for defining and training deep learning models. you’ll want to be experienced with at least one of these frameworks as most ai teams are using them for research or product development. you should also consider joining the machine learning community. the biggest area of ai research today seeks to enable computers to make inferences from complex data. techniques to do this are termed machine learning (ml). ai and ml are large and rapidly-developing fields. while it’s impossible to capture their full potential in a this blog post, we’d like to invite you to mat’s workshop on natural language processing at the global ai conference on january 24th from 2pm – 6pm pst in santa clara, california. artificial intelligence, udacity for enterprise ai frontiers conference 2018 day 1 of the ai frontiers conference the annual ai frontiers conference is a three-day conference designed to deliver the latest breakthroughs, trends and prediction in ai to practitioners, academics, businesses and startups. the conference recently took place at the san jose convention center from nov. 9 to 11, 2018, bringing together experts from ai giants such as google, facebook, microsoft, and ai rising stars like openai, uber, and udacity. we had an opportunity to present one of the ai workshops on natural language processing, as well as attend the conference, and wanted to share our top three takeaways from the conference. 1.) ai is prevalent across industries ai no longer refers to theoretical research at academic institutions or r&d labs; instead, it is a foundational technology that is disrupting society and driving innovations in key industries. from the way we get to work, to how doctors identify and treat diseases, ai is poised to forge a future of endless new possibilities. some key industries taking advantage of ai include healthcare and finance. for example, in healthcare ai is used to predict diseases, identify high-risk patient groups, automate diagnostic tests and to increase speed and accuracy of treatment. it can also be used to improve drug formulations, predictive care, and dna analysis that can positively impact quality of healthcare and affect human lives. another key industry is finance. banks are already using ai to streamline their formerly manual processes for tracking data, saving time and maximizing cost benefits. the new horizon? leveraging ai beyond internal processes to inform consumer interaction. as the finance world grows and develops with this technology, the next step is machine learning that changes and adapts to improve fraud detection and provides smarter customer service by conversing with users every day. by using ai to inform both consumer-facing and internal processes, the potential return on investment can be huge. 2.) ai redefines what it means to be human dr. kai-fu lee has been at the center of the ai revolution for more than 30 years. for his ph.d. thesis at carnegie mellon university, dr. lee developed the world’s first speaker-independent, continuous speech recognition system. today, he is chairman and chief executive officer of sinovation ventures, as well as president of its artificial intelligence institute. he spoke at the conference and his message was that ai is giving our society a wake-up call. currently, so much of our time is spent on busywork and repetitive work, which will largely be automated in the age of ai. yet, key attributes such as creativity and empathy cannot be substituted by machines or data. organizations in the world of ai will require people to excel at connecting with others and gaining people’s trust. many transactions are already occurring online, but high-end corporate sales will require the ability to build long-term customer relationships. “my advice to employees would be to become lifelong learners, always looking for the next skill and never believing that the next 10 years will be like the previous decade,” he stressed. there’s a widening skills gap between traditional and machine-augmented work, but it also creates a real need for new training, new types of experts, and, ultimately, a shift from the workforce we know to a workforce open to new possibilities, as far as new skills, productivity, and contributions by humans made hand-in-hand with machines. 3.) ai goes mainstream faster than imagined some of the biggest brands on the planet are placing huge bets on artificial intelligence, betting on everything from face-scanning smartphones and consumer gadgets to computerized health care and self-driving cars. it’s also worth noting that ai has quickly gone mainstream in popular consumer devices such as apple’s siri, amazon’s alexa, and google’s home assistant. and this trend is happening faster than many could have imagined just a few years ago. as companies embrace the transformative potential of ai, they have been snapping up all the available talent from the relatively small pool of scientists and technicians trained in artificial intelligence, and its sub-disciplines, machine learning and deep learning. as the scarcity of people with the requisite knowledge and abilities has deepened, those companies have been cultivating efforts to up-skill ai skills across their workforce. making a success of ai in an organization ultimately rests upon diversity: diversity of thinking, of personnel, and of skillsets. on-boarding team members from across the organization, maintaining a critical and inclusive hiring policy, and implementing a cohesive workforce transformation initiative to up-skill and re-skill personnel are vital to bridge the skills gap. the conference provided a front-row seat of the frontiers of ai and machine learning and highlighted some extraordinary breakthroughs in various industries. as ai technologies become a reality, companies and their workforce must keep up – and they must do so quickly. find out how udacity enterprise is helping companies transform their workforce to remain competitive. artificial intelligence, digital transformation, udacity for enterprise, workforce planning and management, workforce transformation answering “yes” to hard questions about the skills gap, and the future of work a recent article from the university of california’s chief innovation officer, about the impact of disruptive technologies on jobs and skills, poses critical questions about how we connect learning to jobs—today, and in the future. everyone from politicians to policy makers, utopianists to university professors, innovators to investors, is talking about the future of work, the fourth industrial revolution, and the automation age. it’s hard to avoid these topics, and if you’re between the ages of, say, 16 and 80, you probably shouldn’t avoid them. our work lives are changing, and depending on how we manage the transition, this could either be a new golden age, or a serious shock to the system. at udacity, we’re engaged in helping lifelong learners across the globe empower themselves through learning, in order to build rewarding lives and careers. as such, we’re acutely aware of the looming changes—the theories around how it’s going to happen, and what it’s all going to mean. we engage every day with innovators, educators, students, employees and thought leaders, to better understand what education needs to do, be, and represent as we move forward. we work with recruiters, hiring managers, entrepreneurs, and executives, to better forecast what skills will be needed, where the demand will be, and what career advancement will look like in the days, years, and decades to come. we collaborate with individuals, startups, and global corporations, to better understand how and where the work of the future will happen. in short, we spend a vast amount of time learning from anyone and everyone about what the future holds, and how we can best prepare our students to succeed. we listen, we talk, we watch, we ask, and we read. one article that recently impressed us for its ambitious scope, rich degree of insight, and clear-eyed understanding of where the world is heading, is a post by christine gulbranson, the chief innovation officer for the university of california system. the article is entitled the future of work: the impact of disruptive technologies on jobs and skills. here is a sample of the wisdom gulbranson shares in this provocative and timely piece: “it’s not difficult to make some basic calculations about what skill sets will be needed in the future: automate predictable manual labor jobs and the skills demanded for such jobs decreases. more automated factories will increase the demand for hard skills in mechanical engineering, software architecture, coding, algorithms, data structures, data analysis/data science, and machine architecture/design. increasing gene editing and robotic surgery will increase the demand for software engineers and mechanical engineers who also have medical skills. move to iot cities and policy makers and lawyers will need to understand coding, software architecture, economics, and more, on top of what they’re expected to know today. clearly with a rise of connected devices and infrastructure, machines, ai, spatial computing, blockchain, and autonomous vehicles, there comes an increase in demand for steam skills. however, sitting on top of hard skills is a deep and strong layer for cognitive, analytical, and soft skills. employers won’t be looking for a degree that signifies what a candidate knows: they will be looking for someone who can learn, combine and analyze, problem-solve, create, and adjust.” it’s that last sentence that especially resonated with us, because this echoes exactly what we hear directly from employers every single day. the pace of modern business and the rapid advance of technology have significantly altered the hiring landscape in such a way that characteristics such as agility, growth mindset, adaptability, creativity, and grit have emerged as the most important factors in predicting a successful hire. that’s not to say that acquired skills don’t matter—they do!—but the ability to learn new skills and apply them has become just as important as the skills you already possess. this is also not to say that educational pedigree doesn’t have a place any longer—it does—but what constitutes credible pedigree is changing rapidly. as we’ve learned in the years since first launching our nanodegree programs, a nanodegree credential fulfills a dual role. in addition to affirming your skills acquisition, earning a nanodegree credential stands as evidence that you are a self-motivated problem-solver who possesses grit and determination. gulbranson’s article concludes on a sobering note of caution: “finally, as we already know today, if education can’t keep up with changing industry, then the skills gap will hinder technological advancement and adoption.” she goes on to ask some powerful questions, such as: are students learning how to learn, handle high complexity, and be flexible? are they learning how to make the invisible visible, and how to make good decisions using data and analysis? are there solutions that don’t cost an arm and a leg and last four years when the industry needs a software engineer who is also a psychologist to create a product that detects the mood of drivers and auto-shuts off the car appropriately? we’re proud to be part of a new generation of learning providers offering opportunities that represent a “yes” answer to all the above, and we’re grateful to innovators like christine gulbranson who are out there asking the hard questions, and providing the right answers. through your commitment to lifelong learning at your organization, you are helping build rewarding careers for employees, while creating an environment for innovation. ~ visit udacity.com/enterprise to discover how we can help your organization successfully navigate workforce transformation! posts navigation older posts click below to download your preferred career guide web developer career guide cloud career guide data career guide robotics career guide advance your career enter your email below to download one of our free career guides country codeunited states - 1canada - 1india - 91albania - 355algeria - 213american samoa - 1-684anguilla - 1-264antarctica - 672antigua and barbuda - 1-268argentina - 54armenia - 374aruba - 297australia - 61austria - 43azerbaijan - 994bahamas - 1-242bahrain - 973bangladesh - 880barbados - 1-246belarus - 375belgium - 32belize - 501bermuda - 1-441bhutan - 975bolivia - 591bosnia and herzegovina - 387botswana - 267brazil - 55british indian ocean territory - 246british virgin islands - 1-284brunei - 673bulgaria - 359burundi - 257cambodia - 855cameroon - 237canada - 1cape verde - 238cayman islands - 1-345central african republic - 236chile - 56china - 86colombia - 57costa rica - 506croatia - 385curacao - 599cyprus - 357czech republic - 420democratic republic of the congo - 243denmark - 45dominica - 1-767dominican republic - 1-809, 1-829, 1-849ecuador - 593egypt - 20el salvador - 503equatorial guinea - 240estonia - 372ethiopia - 251falkland islands - 500faroe islands - 298fiji - 679finland - 358france - 33french polynesia - 689georgia - 995germany - 49ghana - 233gibraltar - 350greece - 30greenland - 299grenada - 1-473guam - 1-671guatemala - 502guinea - 224haiti - 509honduras - 504hong kong - 852hungary - 36iceland - 354india - 91indonesia - 62iraq - 964ireland - 353isle of man - 44-1624israel - 972italy - 39ivory coast - 225jamaica - 1-876japan - 81jordan - 962kazakhstan - 7kenya - 254kosovo - 383kuwait - 965kyrgyzstan - 996latvia - 371lebanon - 961lesotho - 266liberia - 231libya - 218liechtenstein - 423lithuania - 370luxembourg - 352macau - 853macedonia - 389madagascar - 261malawi - 265malaysia - 60maldives - 960mali - 223malta - 356marshall islands - 692mayotte - 262mexico - 52moldova - 373monaco - 377mongolia - 976montenegro - 382morocco - 212mozambique - 258myanmar - 95namibia - 264nauru - 674nepal - 977netherlands - 31netherlands antilles - 599new caledonia - 687new zealand - 64nicaragua - 505niger - 227nigeria - 234northern mariana islands - 1-670norway - 47pakistan - 92palestine - 970panama - 507papua new guinea - 675paraguay - 595peru - 51philippines - 63poland - 48portugal - 351puerto rico - 1-787, 1-939qatar - 974romania - 40russia - 7rwanda - 250saint lucia - 1-758saint martin - 590saint vincent and the grenadines - 1-784san marino - 378saudi arabia - 966serbia - 381sierra leone - 232singapore - 65slovakia - 421slovenia - 386solomon islands - 677south africa - 27south korea - 82spain - 34sri lanka - 94sudan - 249swaziland - 268sweden - 46switzerland - 41taiwan - 886tanzania - 255thailand - 66trinidad and tobago - 1-868tunisia - 216turkey - 90turkmenistan - 993turks and caicos islands - 1-649u.s. virgin islands - 1-340uganda - 256ukraine - 380united arab emirites - 971united kingdom - 44united states - 1uruguay - 598uzbekistan - 998vatican - 379venezuela - 58vietnam - 84zimbabwe - 263other i agree i consent and agree to receive email marketing communications from udacity. choose your guide you have successfully subscribed! by entering your information above and clicking “choose your guide”, you consent to receive marketing communications from udacity, which may include email messages, autodialed texts and phone calls about udacity products or services at the email and mobile number provided above. udacity or its providers typically send a max of [5] messages per month. message and data rates may apply. you understand that consent is not a condition of purchase. you may reply stop at any time to cancel, and help for help. read the full terms of use and our privacy policy, or learn more about udacity sms on our faq. categories announcements artificial intelligence career guidance digital transformation featured blogs free courses hiring and recruiting instructors learning and motivation mentor stories product management scholarships school of ai school of autonomous systems school of business school of cloud computing school of data science school of programming self driving car student success tech tips tech trends and your company udacity for enterprise uncategorized workforce planning and management workforce transformation popular nanodegree programs c++ data engineer ai product manager full stack web developer ux designer programming for data science with python latest posts product management methodologies: agile vs waterfall vs scrum vs kanban udacity leads effort to upskill laid-off workers with new scholarship udacity’s contribution to the covid-19 crisis: one free month access to nanodegree programs 10 nanodegree programs later… a dream job | student story c++ maps explained popular nanodegree programs vr developer self-driving car engineer data analyst ios developer front-end web developer machine learning engineer android developer student resources blog career resource center help & faq catalog veteran programs mobile scholarships hiring partners udacity about in the news jobs @ udacity georgia tech udacity for business hire graduates student success inquiries contact us legal service status site map nanodegree is a trademark of udacity. © 2011-2020 udacity, inc. × subscribe to our newsletter learning = growing sign up for udacity blog updates to get the latest in guidance and inspiration as you discover programming, web development, data science, and more. submit