about books maybe you should talk to someone marry him stick figure dear therapist services individual therapy couples therapy reproductive counseling consulting/coaching speaking events press articles contact menu about books maybe you should talk to someone marry him stick figure dear therapist services individual therapy couples therapy reproductive counseling consulting/coaching speaking events press articles contact articles selected work my byline includes hundreds of cover stories, features, profiles, opinion pieces, and book reviews for national publications including the new york times, the atlantic, the washington post, the los angeles times, time, people, slate, salon, o, the oprah magazine, new york magazine, parents, elle, cosmopolitan, glamour, self, redbook, town and country, working mother, and women’s health. for several years, i wrote a monthly parenting column for lifetime moms and a relationships column for msn. many of my pieces have become viral sensations shared and discussed in media around the world. i am also a contributing editor and weekly “dear therapist” columnist at the atlantic; and my reported pieces and commentaries have aired on npr. selected work the atlantic how to land your kid in therapy the new york times what brand is your therapist? the new york times does a more equal marriage mean less sex? time magazine thirtysomething meets er the new york times 'will you stay with me until i die?' the new york times your therapist's prescription? the right book. the atlantic why there's no such thing as 'having it all' cosmopolitan the ambition gap new york times a dying young woman reminds us how to live npr the original lean-inners the atlantic how do i love thee? the new york times mother, brace yourself npr commentaries listen to the archives the new york times teaching movie moguls to wipe drool the new york times my mother, the tv writer new york magazine what your therapist really thinks the new york times what a survivor of auschwitz learned from the trauma of others the new york times the bitch in the house has a sequel the new york times one is enough the new york times guy talk the new york times a love less ordinary the new york times the arrangement subscribe to my newsletter your first name your last name your email address sign up facebook twitter instagram © lori gottlieb, 2020. all rights reserved. licensed marriage and family therapist, mfc #54049 | terms as an amazon associate i earn from qualifying purchases. site by sarah mattern. your browser is out-of-date! update your browser to view this website correctly.update my browser now ×