veritas odit moras friday march 27, 2020 support arts & letters daily × subscribe to our weekly newsletter do not show this again alternate view since 1998, arts & letters daily has linked to more than 17,000 articles, book reviews and essays. consider supporting us. » march 27, 2020 articles of note zach baron is a profiler, involving a strange and ephemeral genre of magazine journalism. he spends time with someone and writes about the experience. now he can't leave the house... more » new books no modernism without lesbians. more than a sexual preference, lesbianism created the conditions for an artistic revolution. or so claims diana souhami... more » essays & opinions a pandemic is a time for rethinking everything, for changing one’s mind, for putting down books by fashionable theorists... more » march 26, 2020 articles of note orwell and the left. would this foremost cant-detector find a whiff of it on the contemporary left? he would cast a baleful eye on identity politics and be dubious about diversity... more » new books in his letters, robert frost is never tedious, always fun, appallingly crafty, and unusually trusting in people he barely knew... more » essays & opinions the literature of contagion is vile, says jill lepore. "every story of epidemic is a story of illiteracy, language made powerless, man made brute... more » march 25, 2020 articles of note from the sator square to anti-riddles, word games have a long and delightful history. crosswords weren’t invented until 1913... more » new books freud was a social philosopher, using a scientific guise to lend his ideas more authority. or so argues a new book... more » essays & opinions the critical theorist as coronavirus denier. giorgio agamben uses outdated jargon to make once-fashionable arguments that now seem absurd. who's listening?... more » march 24, 2020 articles of note “in all the creative occupations, there’s no stability unless you’re a superstar of some sort.” barbara ehrenreich reckons with success... more » new books during the 16 months einstein spent in bohemia, he did nothing much. but the banality of his experience there is itself worth consideration... more » essays & opinions in praise of marginalia. "like having a child or planting a garden, annotating a book is an expression of hope for the future"... more » march 23, 2020 articles of note there’s a lot we can numb ourselves to in order to survive, says meghan o'rourke. but can we ignore our inability to come together to mourn the dead?... more » new books could it be that loneliness was invented around 1800? the separation of self and society has deeper roots, as hamlet or othello might testify... more » essays & opinions any critic who wants to write something lasting must do so in part from aggression. few have been more successful than t.s. eliot... more » march 21, 2020 articles of note in the 1790s, muslin gowns, hoops earrings, and madras were the height of european fashion. they were all shamelessly appropriated from the west indies... more » new books “advertising was like art, and more and more art was like advertising. … ideally, the only difference would be the logo.” so it went at the warhol factory... more » essays & opinions society, durkheim held, was a social fact irreducible to psychology or economics. in a time of pandemic, we’re all durkheimians... more » march 20, 2020 articles of note crossword editors are strange arbiters of cultural relevance. but it really matters what reaches the grid — and what's kept out... more » new books george gershwin attacked a “crude, vulgar, and unadorned” version of jazz. but were his experiments in the genre just cultural appropriation?... more » essays & opinions when alex perez praises philip roth and henry miller, people react as if to an atrocity. and yet he can’t get enough of these problematic white dudes... more » march 19, 2020 articles of note inigo philbrick is the art world’s mini-madoff. a young and charming dealer who dabbled in drugs, prostitution, and endless scams... more » new books lucian freud’s art was an obsessive quest to exert maniacal control over contour, color, and light. he was a king lear of the brush... more » essays & opinions what does a writer do when his words stop working? wait for the muse to recharge or dwell in the struggle to overcome your own silence... more » march 18, 2020 articles of note judith shklar, critic of liberal triumphalism, was no system builder. but her thought resonates in our disenchanted, skeptical world... more » new books tarred as elitist and conservative for its new critical roots, formalism is making a comeback. will it stick this time?... more » essays & opinions “be of good cheer,” advises geoff dyer, reflecting on the pandemic. but inwardly he’s clutching his head like munch’s screamer... more » march 17, 2020 articles of note as furtwängler and shostakovich showed, classical music has the ability to bind a nation. why hasn’t that happened in america?... more » new books before the 1600s, the workplace drug most commonly consumed in the west was beer. then capitalism brought a craze for something new: coffee... more » essays & opinions in literature, a disease is not just a disease. it is a return of the repressed, a manifestation of an eternal crisis... more » march 16, 2020 articles of note war, corruption, oppression, and misogyny were facts of life in renaissance italy. are the period’s great artistic achievements complicit in those brutalities?... more » new books shrinking news coverage, online consumer reviews, the withering of literature in public esteem: an audit of book reviewing in uncertain times... more » essays & opinions much of the poetry we love most is wistful and regret-filled. why? the all-too human hankering for things to be other than they are. michael dirda explains... more » march 14, 2020 articles of note why do american cemeteries look the way they do? the answer lies in a 19th-century passion for rural, rustic design... more » new books explainer journalism never lets actual events get in the way of big ideas. exhibit a: ezra klein’s new book... more » essays & opinions through umberto eco’s eyes, the library functions not to enlighten, but to disorient — to overwhelm your self-confidence... more » march 13, 2020 articles of note from the decameron to station eleven, there has always been a literature of pandemic because there have always been pandemics... more » new books writing about music is a difficult thing, saying in words that which words cannot say. philip kennicott gets it exactly right... more » essays & opinions in 1948, camus discovered simone weil’s manuscripts. they revolutionized not only his sense of suffering but his sense of self... more » march 12, 2020 articles of note when dora maar, picasso’s lover, suffered a jealousy-fueled breakdown, he blamed surrealism and “that whining, weepy phony, jean-jacques rousseau”... more » new books how was america transformed from a “rabidly anti-theatrical” society to one that, by 1833, viewed shakespeare as its great national author?... more » essays & opinions george steiner, an unrepentant elitist, was a moral force for high art. among his virtues was a hunger to be more serious... more » march 11, 2020 articles of note a medical mystery to unravel: jordan peterson was in a drug-induced coma in russia. when he awoke, he was unable to speak or write... more » new books the battle between noah webster and joseph e. worcester still matters because it was over the words americans use to understand themselves... more » essays & opinions long gone are the days of dickens and kafka — the novel has been brought low. are its days numbered?... more » march 10, 2020 articles of note in 1967, william styron, a white novelist, fictively entered the mind of a black man. what would happen if the confessions of nat turner appeared today?... more » new books americans seem headed for an “endless autumn” — plenty of free time, but creativity, warmth, and hope in short supply... more » essays & opinions george scialabba, who has spent a lifetime suffering from depression and reading about others', has some advice... more » march 9, 2020 articles of note hannah arendt recognized that thinking is not necessarily a moral activity but can function as a brake on the temptation to do wrong... more » new books the reality of numbers. does it matter if numbers are, in a philosophical sense, real, as long as they work as expected? depends on whom you ask... more » essays & opinions the university of chicago is renowned for its commitment to open debate and rigorous inquiry. is that still true of its english department?... more » march 7, 2020 articles of note jeremy bentham warned against ancestor worship. how does that square with the newly prominent display of his waxy, skeletal remains?... more » new books we are confronted with two new, substantial hitler biographies. how much more is there to say? quite a lot, it turns out... more » essays & opinions in praise of passive protagonists. the insipidity of characters like candide and bartleby belies their triumphant potential... more » march 6, 2020 articles of note the paradox of authenticity: in order to reap the benefits of feeling authentic, you may have to betray your true nature... more » new books ibauhaus. was this laboratory of modernism, founded in 1919, a progenitor of the iphone? the case is by turns persuasive and preposterous... more » essays & opinions faulkner arrived in hollywood in 1932 and made a lasting first impression: he was drunk, disheveled, and bleeding from the head... more » march 5, 2020 articles of note lunch with freeman dyson. the notoriously contrarian polymath, who died last week, was a slow eater. he did nearly all of the talking... more » new books newly married to george orwell, eileen blair cried a lot and typed his manuscripts in the dark. things went downhill from there... more » essays & opinions it's been said that most writers are lucky to have one original book in them. a lot of literary careers consist of rewriting it again and again... more » march 4, 2020 articles of note the millennial aesthetic: potted plants, sans-serif fonts, pastels (especially pink). it’s for those who can’t afford frills or risk failure... more » new books the joyousness of dogs. we love them and they love us, as no small measure of philosophical material bears out... more » essays & opinions all is not well in the humanities. why are its adherents so eager to convince themselves otherwise? charlie tyson unpacks “reassurance lit”... more » get our weekly newsletter articles of note zach baron is a profiler, involving a strange and ephemeral genre of magazine journalism. he spends time with someone and writes about the experience. now he can't leave the house... more » orwell and the left. would this foremost cant-detector find a whiff of it on the contemporary left? he would cast a baleful eye on identity politics and be dubious about diversity... more » from the sator square to anti-riddles, word games have a long and delightful history. crosswords weren’t invented until 1913... more » since 1998, arts & letters daily has linked to more than 17,000 articles, book reviews and essays. consider supporting us. » “in all the creative occupations, there’s no stability unless you’re a superstar of some sort.” barbara ehrenreich reckons with success... more » there’s a lot we can numb ourselves to in order to survive, says meghan o'rourke. but can we ignore our inability to come together to mourn the dead?... more » in the 1790s, muslin gowns, hoops earrings, and madras were the height of european fashion. they were all shamelessly appropriated from the west indies... more » crossword editors are strange arbiters of cultural relevance. but it really matters what reaches the grid — and what's kept out... more » inigo philbrick is the art world’s mini-madoff. a young and charming dealer who dabbled in drugs, prostitution, and endless scams... more » judith shklar, critic of liberal triumphalism, was no system builder. but her thought resonates in our disenchanted, skeptical world... more » as furtwängler and shostakovich showed, classical music has the ability to bind a nation. why hasn’t that happened in america?... more » war, corruption, oppression, and misogyny were facts of life in renaissance italy. are the period’s great artistic achievements complicit in those brutalities?... more » why do american cemeteries look the way they do? the answer lies in a 19th-century passion for rural, rustic design... more » from the decameron to station eleven, there has always been a literature of pandemic because there have always been pandemics... more » when dora maar, picasso’s lover, suffered a jealousy-fueled breakdown, he blamed surrealism and “that whining, weepy phony, jean-jacques rousseau”... more » a medical mystery to unravel: jordan peterson was in a drug-induced coma in russia. when he awoke, he was unable to speak or write... more » in 1967, william styron, a white novelist, fictively entered the mind of a black man. what would happen if the confessions of nat turner appeared today?... more » hannah arendt recognized that thinking is not necessarily a moral activity but can function as a brake on the temptation to do wrong... more » jeremy bentham warned against ancestor worship. how does that square with the newly prominent display of his waxy, skeletal remains?... more » the paradox of authenticity: in order to reap the benefits of feeling authentic, you may have to betray your true nature... more » lunch with freeman dyson. the notoriously contrarian polymath, who died last week, was a slow eater. he did nearly all of the talking... more » the millennial aesthetic: potted plants, sans-serif fonts, pastels (especially pink). it’s for those who can’t afford frills or risk failure... more » the computer is a greatly misunderstood device, and the misunderstanding matters greatly. computers can’t think — and that's what makes them valuable... more » why is crispy the acme of food textures? we both hear it and feel it. inside the scientific search for the perfect crunch... more » “many shall go to and fro, and knowledge shall increase.” travel and wisdom have long been connected. they are still... more » david bromwich warns against the left’s complacency and presents a deeper concern: inhabiting a society without opposition... more » by 1960, norman rockwell's paintings had become kitschy curios at best and objects of derision at worst. then he underwent a political transformation... more » gershwin and race. whether rhapsody in blue or “blackface” numbers like “swanee,” his work is central to understanding the american soundscape... more » what burning farms? what looting and rape? arthur conan doyle’s time in the boer war was marked by patriotic zeal... more » madame yale sermonized on beauty, compared herself to helen of troy, and sold wildly successful tinctures. then the feds moved in... more » the brideshead generation’s “lost girls” were known for their dry repartee and sexual dalliances. their stories deserve telling... more » “lean,” “agile, “disruptive.” corporatespeak has two goals: wasting time and creating the illusion that our work is more interesting than it really is... more » in 1917, academic conditions in wartime germany may have seemed moot. then came max weber, modeling how to live an intellectual life... more » the salinger novel that wasn’t. hapworth 16, 1924 was set for a limited, under-the-radar release. then amazon.com got involved... more » fan fiction has been around since at least the 18th century. constant through its long history: an emphasis on bawdiness and breaking taboos... more » golden age for gossip. while newspapers struggle, one journalistic institution in print has stood the test of time: page six... more » yuval noah hariri thrives in an environment of relative critical neglect. after all, nobody is an expert on the meaning of everything, or the history of everybody... more » james fetzer is a prolific philosopher of science — and an advocate for some of the strangest and most odious ideas of our time... more » dorothy parker comprised more than just her wit. beneath it lay modesty, political commitment, and an acid fatalism... more » the two paul samuelsons. he was an egghead mathematical savant — and also, somehow, the voice of the people... more » c.s. lewis, first-class curmudgeon. in a 1957 essay he revealed his mortal enemies: out-of-tune carolers and some kids who broke into his shed... more » new books no modernism without lesbians. more than a sexual preference, lesbianism created the conditions for an artistic revolution. or so claims diana souhami... more » in his letters, robert frost is never tedious, always fun, appallingly crafty, and unusually trusting in people he barely knew... more » freud was a social philosopher, using a scientific guise to lend his ideas more authority. or so argues a new book... more » during the 16 months einstein spent in bohemia, he did nothing much. but the banality of his experience there is itself worth consideration... more » could it be that loneliness was invented around 1800? the separation of self and society has deeper roots, as hamlet or othello might testify... more » “advertising was like art, and more and more art was like advertising. … ideally, the only difference would be the logo.” so it went at the warhol factory... more » george gershwin attacked a “crude, vulgar, and unadorned” version of jazz. but were his experiments in the genre just cultural appropriation?... more » lucian freud’s art was an obsessive quest to exert maniacal control over contour, color, and light. he was a king lear of the brush... more » tarred as elitist and conservative for its new critical roots, formalism is making a comeback. will it stick this time?... more » before the 1600s, the workplace drug most commonly consumed in the west was beer. then capitalism brought a craze for something new: coffee... more » shrinking news coverage, online consumer reviews, the withering of literature in public esteem: an audit of book reviewing in uncertain times... more » explainer journalism never lets actual events get in the way of big ideas. exhibit a: ezra klein’s new book... more » writing about music is a difficult thing, saying in words that which words cannot say. philip kennicott gets it exactly right... more » how was america transformed from a “rabidly anti-theatrical” society to one that, by 1833, viewed shakespeare as its great national author?... more » the battle between noah webster and joseph e. worcester still matters because it was over the words americans use to understand themselves... more » americans seem headed for an “endless autumn” — plenty of free time, but creativity, warmth, and hope in short supply... more » the reality of numbers. does it matter if numbers are, in a philosophical sense, real, as long as they work as expected? depends on whom you ask... more » we are confronted with two new, substantial hitler biographies. how much more is there to say? quite a lot, it turns out... more » ibauhaus. was this laboratory of modernism, founded in 1919, a progenitor of the iphone? the case is by turns persuasive and preposterous... more » newly married to george orwell, eileen blair cried a lot and typed his manuscripts in the dark. things went downhill from there... more » the joyousness of dogs. we love them and they love us, as no small measure of philosophical material bears out... more » the obstreperous becketteers watched in chagrin as the literary gig of the century — writing beckett’s biography — went to a young woman... more » presidents and their books. thomas jefferson was more of a reader than a writer. john adams couldn’t stop writing... more » morbidly depressed, william james hung on not through intellectualism, but by making the value of his life a hypothesis... more » what new can be gleaned from the french revolution’s central paradox: how so many citizens were slaughtered in the name of liberté, égalité, fraternité?... more » in regency england, even aristocratic younger sons had to work. their choices: the army, navy, clergy, or law. each had its indignities... more » because few bankers are men of letters, and few men of letters are bankers, walter bagehot remains unique. as does his supercilious literary style... more » warhol’s pranks, like dressing up as a box of brillo, sound dumb. but we still live in his world... more » liberalism is besieged, we must rush to defend it! so goes a popular narrative. but post-liberalism is more bark than bite... more » depictions of emily dickinson vary by decade. in the ’80s she was seen as a model feminist; in the ’90s, as queer. today we see her as driven... more » michael hollingshead, lsd provider to the intellectually minded, is known as a benign cosmic courier. but his story has a dark side... more » savaged by his contemporaries as “king rat” and “the demon of austria,” metternich lamented: “my life has fallen at a hateful time”... more » the pugnacious robert parkin peters was a bigamist and a con man. his biggest con: infiltrating oxford’s academic elite... more » comedy and social theory make an awkward pair. if andrea long chu’s females is any guide, the problem is that punchlines wear off quickly... more » our age is full of decadent art that risks little. but safe aesthetic choices come with grave consequences for society at large... more » the cold war wasn’t entirely a clash of opposites. in terms of cultural politics, it was obscured by confusion, equivocation, deceit... more » drugs and the golden age of glossy magazines. “plane highs were usually the best,” says one former editor, “especially in first class”... more » infinite jerk. david foster wallace was needy, petulant, crude, and creepy. so what was it like to date him?... more » the woman who gave birth to rabbits. mary toft was a fabulist, but her tale reveals much about gender in the 18th century... more » essays & opinions a pandemic is a time for rethinking everything, for changing one’s mind, for putting down books by fashionable theorists... more » the literature of contagion is vile, says jill lepore. "every story of epidemic is a story of illiteracy, language made powerless, man made brute... more » the critical theorist as coronavirus denier. giorgio agamben uses outdated jargon to make once-fashionable arguments that now seem absurd. who's listening?... more » in praise of marginalia. "like having a child or planting a garden, annotating a book is an expression of hope for the future"... more » any critic who wants to write something lasting must do so in part from aggression. few have been more successful than t.s. eliot... more » society, durkheim held, was a social fact irreducible to psychology or economics. in a time of pandemic, we’re all durkheimians... more » when alex perez praises philip roth and henry miller, people react as if to an atrocity. and yet he can’t get enough of these problematic white dudes... more » what does a writer do when his words stop working? wait for the muse to recharge or dwell in the struggle to overcome your own silence... more » “be of good cheer,” advises geoff dyer, reflecting on the pandemic. but inwardly he’s clutching his head like munch’s screamer... more » in literature, a disease is not just a disease. it is a return of the repressed, a manifestation of an eternal crisis... more » much of the poetry we love most is wistful and regret-filled. why? the all-too human hankering for things to be other than they are. michael dirda explains... more » through umberto eco’s eyes, the library functions not to enlighten, but to disorient — to overwhelm your self-confidence... more » in 1948, camus discovered simone weil’s manuscripts. they revolutionized not only his sense of suffering but his sense of self... more » george steiner, an unrepentant elitist, was a moral force for high art. among his virtues was a hunger to be more serious... more » long gone are the days of dickens and kafka — the novel has been brought low. are its days numbered?... more » george scialabba, who has spent a lifetime suffering from depression and reading about others', has some advice... more » the university of chicago is renowned for its commitment to open debate and rigorous inquiry. is that still true of its english department?... more » in praise of passive protagonists. the insipidity of characters like candide and bartleby belies their triumphant potential... more » faulkner arrived in hollywood in 1932 and made a lasting first impression: he was drunk, disheveled, and bleeding from the head... more » it's been said that most writers are lucky to have one original book in them. a lot of literary careers consist of rewriting it again and again... more » all is not well in the humanities. why are its adherents so eager to convince themselves otherwise? charlie tyson unpacks “reassurance lit”... more » the real joan didion. her work isn’t about her family or about death, but about the allure of alienation from all that... more » the idea of selfhood, taken for granted in secular societies, depends on a theistic worldview. john gray explains... more » in 2004, richard rorty went to tehran. thousands came to hear how philosophy could build democracy. they got something different... more » writers like v.s. naipaul felt shame and self-loathing for caribbean literature. then came kamau braithwaite, who threw off the burden... more » the stock market is a fickle beast. is there such a thing as a philosophically responsible investment?... more » in the early modern world, melancholy was no trivial matter. it could manifest as flatulence, migraine, or the belief that one is a shellfish... more » dave hickey, at 80, is a broken-down lion of a man. what remains is a vision of art that extends to every realm of human endeavor... more » wrongly dismissed as a “depressive sexist,” michel houellebecq is actually the most serious and important novelist in europe... more » millennial tries fancy thing (sweetgreen salads, puffer jackets, goop), is surprised to find life unchanged. such “late capitalism” essays are everywhere — and are pointless... more » prepper camp, as lauren groff discovers, spans emersonian self-reliance, ninja survivalism, and homemade mace... more » is feminist rage justified? that depends, argues martha nussbaum, on whether it manifests as vigorous protest or servile inactivity... more » what can insect colonies teach us about politics? that self-interest isn’t as natural or as pervasive as we may think... more » judith butler: opening up possibilities requires radical imagining, which can embarrass you or make you seem a little crazy... more » are literary men abhorrent? indeed so, says adrienne miller, former literary and fiction editor of esquire, who counts the ways... more » bertrand russell found prison life agreeable — plenty of time for reading and writing. the only problem was a guard shushing his laughter... more » in the early 20th century, newyorkitis was a disease. its symptoms? egotism, pompousness, greed, and “a circumscribed mental horizon"... more » "the decline of the novel’s prestige reflects a new crisis born of our culture’s increasing failure of intellectual nerve and its terminal doubt about its own progress"... more » scientific authority never conveys moral authority. so why do economists, posing as philosopher-kings, claim insight into matters of right and wrong?... more » "what is the correct response to a ruinous history? what, if anything, is the artist’s “duty”? zadie smith on kara walker... more » why is pop music so depressing? fifty years ago, it was all about love, joy, and happiness. now, it's hate, sorrow, and pain... more » ross douthat is not sold on silicon valley: “the farther you get from that iphone glow, the clearer it becomes: our civilization has entered into decadence”... more » “philosophers should strangle their wives,” and other dubious thoughts — an evening with the charming, monstrously narcissistic george steiner... more » against althusser. the theorist was an out-and-out wacko who composed oracular gibberish... more » academic literary criticism is mired in the formal, modernist project of the 1930s. the persistence of this orthodoxy is baffling — but perhaps now it will change.... more » t.s. eliot and emily hale traded painful and ecstatic love letters for decades. when they were finally free to marry, he demurred... more » "how does the once unthinkable become not only thinkable but self-evident?" asks lorraine daston. "how does the unthinkable become something we cannot think away anymore?"... more » far from the hater he's made out to be, james wood is an enthusiast. and when he does write a pan, "his disapproval is only a correlate of his abiding love"... more » as a student, de beauvoir experienced love as injustice and suffering. she dreamed of a freer, fairer love, and then theorized it into being... more » khmer rouge, ground zero, melting ice caps: tragedy began as a form of art, writes terry eagleton. it is now a way of life... more » get our weekly newsletter nota bene books written in isolation how to be lonely freud and the t.p. panic liberalism after rawls solace in tragic times small talk in a pandemic lessons from camus pandemic journal history and epidemics literature for a lockdown go support ald get our newsletter contact us advertise the ald archives articles of note new books essays & opinions nota bene random newspapers beirut daily star boston globe chicago tribune chron of higher ed chron of philanthropy cs monitor financial times globe & mail guardian ha'aretz japan times jerusalem post london telegraph los angeles times moscow times national post new york times new zealand herald observer smh the australian the hindu the independent usa today wall street journal washington post breaking abc / al jazeera / ap / bbc / cbc / cbs / cnbc / cnn / fox / google / marketwatch / msnbc / nbc / npr / reuters / yahoo / magazines aeon american conservative american interest american journal rev american prospect american review american scholar american scientist american spectator arion armed forces journal art news artforum atlantic monthly atlas obscura big questions boston globe ideas boston review cabinet chronicle review city journal columbia journal rev commentary common-place commonweal current affairs democracy der spiegel discover dissent economic principals edge electric literature eurozine evolutionary psych first things forbes foreign affairs foreign policy fortnightly review globalist guernica magazine harper's harvard magazine hedgehog review history today hoover digest hudson review humanities in these times independent review intelligent life jacobin jstor daily king's review lambda literary review lapham's quarterly le monde diplo logos maclean's mit tech review mosaic mother jones ms. magazine n+1 national affairs national interest national journal national review nautilus new atlantis new criterion new english review new left review new republic new scientist new statesman new york magazine new york observer new yorker newsweek ny times magazine open democracy pacific standard parameters paris review philosophers? mag philosophy & literature philosophy now poetry poets & writers policy project syndicate prospect psychology today public domain review reason salon scientific american seed skeptical inquirer slate smart set smithsonian magazine spiked-online standpoint technology review the american the baffler the daily beast the economist the european the humanist the millions the nation the new inquiry the outline the point the progressive the spectator the walrus the white review threepenny review tikkun time magazine us news utne reader village voice washington monthly weekly standard wilson quarterly wired world affairs yale review book reviews american scholar books atlantic books australian book review b&n review book beast bookforum boston globe books chronicle review claremont review complete review cs monitor books denver post dublin review economist books education & culture financial times books globe & mail books guardian books independent books january magazine jewish review of books literary review london review los angeles review of books los angeles times melbourne age metapsychology new republic books new statesman books new york review new yorker books newsday books ny times books open letters public books salon books scotsman books sf chronicle books slate book review spectator books spiked books sydney review of books tablet books telegraph books the hindu books the nation books the tls times higher ed books university bookman washington post washington times wsj books front page articles of note new books essays & opinions nota bene search contact us advertise new material is added to arts & letters daily six days a week. our motto, "veritas odit moras," is found at line 850 of seneca's version of oedipus. it means "truth hates delay." founding editor (1998-2010): denis dutton editor: evan goldstein managing editor: tran huu dung assistant editor: david wescott copy editor: mitch gerber © 1998 — 2020 arts & letters daily is brought to you by the chronicle of higher education privacy policy