home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » arts and craft diy floral spring wreath for your front door march 25, 2020 karen decor hint leave a comment hello, pretty handy girl readers! i’m back today with a fun project for your front doors! this beautiful baby breath’s wreath - perfect for spring. i love making my own wreaths because i can customize them exactly the way i want. and i can save a bunch of money by making them … [read more...] arts and craft, decor, diy, home decor, pottery barn inspiration, wreath diy quote sign with faux shiplap detail march 18, 2020 in her garage leave a comment this month i will teach you how to make this diy quote sign with a faux shiplap detail. it's a home décor sign with a quote that you can choose! quote signs are so popular right now and for good reason. they are a great way to express your specific style using a unique sentiment … [read more...] arts and craft, decorating 25+ art and craft boredom busters march 14, 2020 brittany bailey leave a comment with the world looking at impending quarantine and school closures, i bet you're wondering how you'll keep boredom at bay. have no fear, i'm here to share a bunch of diy art and craft ideas you can do with (or without) children. i hope some of these projects brighten your day. … [read more...] arts and craft easy diy hand warmers you’ll want to take everywhere february 26, 2020 karen decor hint leave a comment since most of us are in the full swing of winter, i thought hand warmers would be the perfect diy project for your weekend. learn how to make these easy diy hand warmers you'll want to take everywhere! easy diy hand warmers you'll want to take everywhere friends! i’m so … [read more...] arts and craft, diy, fabric, sewing, tutorial faux blue bird eggs and nest february 24, 2020 brittany bailey 18 comments can you think of anything more spring-like than a nest full of blue eggs? today i want to show you how to make faux blue speckled bird eggs and a nest! faux blue bird eggs and nest spring has arrived in north carolina and i want to dance and sing and tiptoe through the … [read more...] accessories, arts and craft, birdhouse, blue, centerpieces, crafts, decor, decorating, holiday decorating, home decor, paintbrushes, painting diy jingle bell garland november 27, 2019 karen decor hint 1 comment i’m always looking for ways to simplify my holiday decorating and re-use what i have. this diy jingle bell garland project is perfect for that! perusing the holiday collections at my favorite home stores gave me the idea of making this simple bell garland. it’s a lovely nod to … [read more...] arts and craft, decor, decorating, diy, do it yourself, holiday decorating, tutorial diy simple fall wreath for less than $10 october 23, 2019 karen decor hint leave a comment diy simple fall wreath for less than $10 hi everyone! happy fall! today i’m back with this super simple wreath idea that will cost you less than $10 all in! it includes using an inexpensive starburst twig wreath from amazon and some cattail bunches that i picked up at dollar … [read more...] arts and craft, autumn fall decor, crafts, decor, decorating, diy, holiday decorating, home decor, tutorial, wreath how to create a faux zinc texture (with spray paint) october 14, 2019 brittany bailey 3 comments want to give something the look of zinc metal without spending money on zinc metal? you can create the look with spray paint and this technique. how to create a faux zinc texture (with spray paint) a while ago i was thrifting with a few friends and stumbled across an ugly … [read more...] aged, arts and craft, before and after, decor, diy, furniture, goodwill, painting, painting & antiquing techniques, spray paint, spray paint metal, thrifting, upcycling diy frosted votive candle holders september 25, 2019 karen decor hint leave a comment diy frosted votive candle holders hi, pretty handy girl readers! i’m back today with a super simple and inexpensive project that you can use for the upcoming holiday season. or anytime, really! these diy frosted votive candle holders are made from old yogurt jars (yoplait by … [read more...] accessories, arts and craft, autumn fall decor, crafts, decor, diy, glass paint, holiday decorating, home decor, painting, spray paint, tablescape, tutorial how to fake a fake pumpkin (faux painting tutorial) september 20, 2019 brittany bailey 16 comments how to fake a fake pumpkin have you seen those neon orange fake pumpkins and nearly vomited because you wouldn't dream of decorating with them. i mean—get real—everyone would know they were fake. ah ha, but have you seen the price tags? $1 - $6? for that price you might just be … [read more...] accessories, art, arts and craft, autumn fall decor, ballard design pears, crafts, decor, decorating, faux painting brick, home decor, paintbrushes, painting, painting & antiquing techniques, pumpkin, renew, tutorial, upcycling, vignettes 26 brilliant diy coaster ideas august 23, 2019 sheri 2 comments add some personality to your home and prevent those awful rings on your tabletops by making some coasters to place under every drink! here are 26 brilliant diy coaster ideas to inspire you and show how you can use a variety of materials to create some really cool coasters in any … [read more...] arts and craft, diy, gift ideas decor, diy, roundup 30+ creative projects using chalkboard paint august 5, 2019 sheri 1 comment chalkboard paint is such a fun addition to many different types of projects. you can turn anything into an ever-changeable work of art, or use it to label different items throughout your home. here is a collection of 32 creative projects using chalkboard paint that you could … [read more...] arts and craft, chalkboard paint, diy, do it yourself, home decor chalk paint, diy, how to, organizing, paint, roundup, tutorial how to make a mini macrame wall hanging may 22, 2019 karen decor hint 1 comment how to make a mini macrame wall hanging if there's one hobby that has become quite the obsession for me - it’s macrame! it’s really fun to create and the projects are inexpensive to complete. right now macrame wall hangings are all the rage, and add an eclectic look to your … [read more...] art, arts and craft, crafts, decor, decorating, diy, kids art macrame 31 inspirational diy farmhouse decor ideas april 10, 2019 sheri 2 comments inspirational diy farmhouse decor many of us are still in love with the farmhouse style of decorating. it's warm, relaxing and full of character. farmhouse style is a mixture of old and new pieces, bringing in a rustic and vintage feel, but not excluding shiny and new. here are … [read more...] arts and craft, crafts, decor, decorating, trash to treasure, tutorial, upcycling decor, diy, farmhouse, roundup diy modern hoop wreath for spring march 27, 2019 karen decor hint leave a comment diy modern hoop wreath for spring hello! i’m so excited to be here to show you how to bring a little spring into your home. i’m betting we all need a little spring at this point in the year. after two back-to-back snowstorms and weeks of frigid temps here in seattle — i’m so … [read more...] accessories, arts and craft, crafts, decor, decorating, diy, holiday decorating, home decor, summer, wreath 41 decorative diy pillows march 13, 2019 sheri 1 comment 41 decorative diy pillows if you are looking for a quick and easy way to update any room in your house, change out your pillows! pillows are easy to add, move, re-cover, or take to another room. they are used for adding texture, pattern, and warmth to your space (and let's not … [read more...] arts and craft, decorating, diy, do it yourself, pillows, sewing 1 2 3 … 22 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok