australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video impact 03/27/2020 10:29 edt as new york city's 911 calls explode, fdny begs sick people to call doctors first the fire department is asking new yorkers only to "call during an emergency" during the coronavirus pandemic. by jenna amatulli, huffpost us new york city’s 911 medical service calls have surged in the last week as the coronavirus pandemic escalates, leading the fire department to issue a public request that new yorkers “only call 911 during a real emergency.” call volumes have gradually increased over the past three days, frank dwyer, fdny deputy commissioner for public information and external affairs, told huffpost. on tuesday, they recorded 5,700 calls, wednesday 5,800, and 6,000 on thursday. “we are seeing record call volume overall, largely due to sick calls, calls where people would be better calling a [doctor] and not calling 911 and looking to go to a hospital,” he said. ron adar / echoes wire/barcroft media via getty images workers build a makeshift morgue outside of bellevue hospital in new york city. the covid-19 outbreak has quickly overwhelmed local hospitals with patients. oren barzilay, president of local 2507, a union that represents emergency medical technicians, paramedics, fire inspectors and dispatchers, corroborated this influx, telling bloomberg on wednesday that medical emergency calls are up about 40%. “our busiest day of the year, we usually do 5,000 calls. that’s usually new year’s day. we have shattered a record last night,” barzilay told the publication. “due to the spike, we have some calls that are waiting three, four hours to get an ambulance.” the call surge comes during a week when the united states surpassed china as the country with the most known cases of the coronavirus, with more than 85,000, according to johns hopkins. new york city, as of thursday evening, had 365 deaths due to covid-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. statewide, 100 patients died in a 24-hour period and the number of people hospitalized for the virus had jumped 40 percent in a single day, said new york gov. andrew cuomo on thursday. the fire department had received about 20 calls per day about coronavirus up until three weeks ago, bloomberg reports. calls jumped to 300 a day last week and have increased since. the fdny’s public service announcement and signage tells new yorkers to “only call 911 during a real emergency” so as to “allow first responders to assist those most in need.” view this post on instagram a post shared by fdny (@fdny) on mar 25, 2020 at 2:46pm pdt view this post on instagram a post shared by fdny (@fdny) on mar 26, 2020 at 6:40am pdt about the influx of calls, dwyer said he thinks “people are concerned/scared, and rightfully so, but they need to call a [doctor] if sick, not an ambulance.” “in nyc, they can call 311 for help locating a healthcare provider, but we need to keep ambulances for true emergencies ... cardiac conditions, difficulty breathing, choking, etc.,” he said. “we all need to work together to support our ems members who are handling record high call volume and the [doctors] and nurses working nonstop in hospitals.” a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic why trump is wrong to compare coronavirus to the flu how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off got anxiety? here are 6 cheap mental health resources. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 12 zoom hacks for work meetings and virtual happy hours how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction jenna amatulli reporter, huffpost more: health new york city coronavirus fire department trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.