skip to content menu about about ashley contact press request a post travel blog start here destinations topics au pair blogging books camino de santiago hadrian’s wall language learning tips living abroad series musings oktoberfest yoga resources travel resources travel gear ashley abroad travel blog menu about about ashley contact press request a post travel blog start here destinations topics au pair blogging books camino de santiago hadrian’s wall language learning tips living abroad series musings oktoberfest yoga resources travel resources travel gear solo female travel with a sophisticated twist hey! i'm ashley, the founder of ashleyabroad.com. this site began as a chronicle of the year i spent working as an au pair in paris. seven years later, ashley abroad has become a go-to resource for travelers who love culture, history, art, food, wine, and the occasional outdoor adventure. start your next adventure here recent posts travel and blogging recap: december 2019 – february 2020 march 16, 2020march 16, 2020 hey everyone. in light of the coronavirus pandemic, it almost feels silly to update you with what’s going on in my life. i’ll try to keep this light. i hope you are staying safe, healthy, and sane in these difficult times. sorry i haven’t written a recap since, oh, december. grad school has been intense… what living as an expat in turkey is really like march 9, 2020february 19, 2020 hey everyone! today, for my living abroad series, i’m chatting with zee, a zambian college student who has lived in adana, turkey, for more than three years. as an african expat, she has a ton of interesting insights to share, from how underrated turkish brunch to why turkey-based expats should consider living in cities. the pros and… what living as an expat in strasbourg is really like february 6, 2020january 15, 2020 today, for my living abroad series, i’m chatting with claire, an american freelance writer who lives in beautiful strasbourg, france (a city i visited when i worked as an au pair!). here, claire shares the reasons she loves living in strasbourg so much, including the romantic architecture and laid-back pace of life. she also shares the best… read more recent posts here france what living as an expat in strasbourg is really like the 25 best souvenirs to bring back from paris (and where to find them) 17 super-fun ways to spend a rainy day in paris what living as an expat in france is really like more france travel japan kawaii food guide: where to find the cutest foods, drinks, and desserts in tokyo how to make the most of 4 days in tokyo: detailed 4-day itinerary 15 essential tips for your first trip to japan how to buy ghibli museum tickets online (even if they’re sold-out) more japan travel the uk york in a day: the perfect one-day itinerary for york, england the ultimate guide to hiking hadrian’s wall the last hadrian’s wall packing list you’ll ever need hadrian’s wall walk accommodation guide: where to stay on your walk more uk travel tanzania what living as an expat in tanzania is really like the ultimate one week zanzibar itinerary jambiani beach guide: tips for visiting zanzibar’s chillest beach town lunch at the rock restaurant on zanzibar more tanzania travel camino de santiago how much does it cost to walk the camino de santiago? the ultimate camino de santiago packing list the 9 life lessons i learned on the camino de santiago the 15 things that surprised me most about the camino de santiago more camino posts living abroad interview series what living as an expat in turkey is really like what living as an expat in new zealand is really like what living as an expat in chiang mai, thailand is really like what living as an expat in fiji is really like more expat interviews get every post delivered to your inbox* sign up now *no spam, ever. i promise. about about ashley privacy policy contact faq travel tips start here destinations travel blog travel resources walks and hikes camino de santiago hadrian’s wall path hiking the dolomites kuari pass (himalayas) living abroad expat interview series language learning tips living in france living in uganda copyright © 2012 - 2020 · ashley abroad scroll back to top