u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost asian voices. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition asian voices donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad the president's son posted the clip even as the u.s. became the country with the highest number of confirmed cases in the world. by lee moran how quarantine culture is blurring online dating and reality tv as more people are stuck at home and reality shows pause production, the search for love continues via our screens — and instagram feeds. by leigh blickley and emma gray house lawmakers unveil resolution blaming china for the coronavirus at a time when trump is fueling racist "chinese virus" rhetoric and asian americans are being spit on and attacked, this seems like a terrible idea. by jennifer bendery warner bros. delays releases of 'wonder woman 1984,' 'in the heights' the postponements of two more hollywood movies, which were slated to open in june, suggest covid-19 could keep cultural institutions closed for months. by marina fang trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone 10 of trump's most damaging coronavirus lies 2020 olympic games postponed due to coronavirus, japanese prime minister says prime minister shinzo abe and olympic officials reached the decision out of concern for the global spread of covid-19. by ja'han jones and marina fang trump says asian americans not to blame for coronavirus the president called for asian americans to be protected but did not acknowledge he'd played a role in their vilification. by josephine harvey newsletter sign up the morning email the morning email helps you start your workday with everything you need to know: breaking news, entertainment and a dash of fun. subscribe here. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. colleges leave sexual assault survivors in limbo as coronavirus spreads title ix processes are being delayed across the country -- leaving many survivors to wonder what justice looks like during a pandemic. by alanna vagianos jeremy lin delivers scathing rebuke of trump’s racist coronavirus rhetoric the former nba star said trump's "subtle anti-chinese message only empowers more hate towards asians." by lee moran correspondent dragged for asking trump if the term 'chinese food' is racist the president has come under fire for repeatedly referring to the coronavirus as the "chinese virus." by david moye asian people are being targeted by racist attacks. here's how you can be an ally. the coronavirus pandemic is fueling racism that often unfolds right in front of bystanders. by josephine harvey yes, viruses used to be named after places. here's why they aren't anymore. the white house defended the phrase "chinese virus" as no different than west nile, zika and ebola viruses, but experts say that practice is harmful. by josephine harvey forced to finally take coronavirus seriously, trump turns to racism after months of properly referring to it, the president is now insisting on calling covid-19 the "chinese virus." by lydia o'connor donald trump’s ‘chinese virus’ coronavirus tweet has me scared for my family "the president's dog whistle is unconscionable and could inspire unthinkable actions and dangerous consequences for families like mine." by louise gleeson, guest writer transgender pastor defies court and conducts same-sex marriages in hong kong previously, marrz balaoro wed couples in secret to avoid being arrested. by michael taylor, reuters how to survive a pandemic, according to these fictional characters octavia butler, gabriel garcía márquez and other authors wrote characters who mastered the art of self-preservation. by joshunda sanders 2 kid cellists treat their self-isolating neighbor to impromptu porch concert taran and calliope tien found a musical way to help out 78-year-old helena schlam during the coronavirus pandemic this week. by curtis m. wong trump torched over racist 'chinese virus' tweet: 'dog whistle politics' politicians, actors and commentators denounced the president's xenophobic description of the coronavirus. by lee moran online classes and a shaky job market: college students face uncertain futures students worry about how losing the rest of the semester on campus will affect their professional plans and educational opportunities. by amanda terkel the rebirth of karrueche tran the "claws" and "deputy" actor's fight to be taken seriously in hollywood has led her to step away from her past baggage. by taryn finley a nyc sex work exhibit aims to shatter stigma around the world's oldest profession the colorful pop-up museum, located in greenwich village, aims to reframe dialogue around sex work and advocate for its practitioners. by curtis m. wong newsletter sign up the morning email the morning email helps you start your workday with everything you need to know: breaking news, entertainment and a dash of fun. subscribe here. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost asian voices. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.