skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search category: ask cranky why doesn’t my carry-on fit in alaska’s bag sizer? (ask cranky) why doesn’t my carry-on fit in alaska’s bag sizer? (ask cranky) it’s time for another ask cranky question. after getting sick of being hassled on past trips for my stuffed carry-on bag, never mind that it always fit, wheels toward the windows, in the actual bins on [united], i bought a new, carry-on bag with stiffer sides. yesterday, i took it … cf on jul 17, 2019 jul 25, 2019 did an airbus a330 have the same problem as the 737 max? (ask cranky) did an airbus a330 have the same problem as the 737 max? (ask cranky) it’s time for another edition of ask cranky and today, it provides a good excuse to write more about boeing’s 737 max problems. no small talk needed… let’s get into this. everyone is bashing boeing right now, but is there any real difference in the growing pains of the 737 … cf on mar 22, 2019 mar 25, 2019 what the f*&@ happened to all these airlines? what the f*&@ happened to all these airlines? i haven’t done an ask cranky post in awhile, and this one seemed like fun. hi brett, i was looking through the archive of “who the f” articles you’ve written through the years, and i think it would be cool to see a follow up on each of the 19 … cf on jan 25, 2019 jan 22, 2019 why won’t american let me use miles on a connecting flight? (ask cranky) why won’t american let me use miles on a connecting flight? (ask cranky) it’s time for another ask cranky. this one is a follow-up on a post i wrote last december. i read your post in december [about american opening up more award space on connecting flights] and i am not seeing this space open up. in fact it has gotten worse. … cf on jun 6, 2018 jun 7, 2018 why is delta hiding lower fares on its website? (ask cranky) why is delta hiding lower fares on its website? (ask cranky) it’s time for another ask cranky, and this one can serve as a warning to anyone who is price-sensitive. you might want to rethink using delta.com if you’re willing to take a more roundabout routing to get a lower fare. i’ve slightly altered the original email for clarity. here’s the … cf on apr 2, 2018 apr 5, 2018 why are one-way fares so expensive internationally? (ask cranky) why are one-way fares so expensive internationally? (ask cranky) it’s time for another ask cranky post, and this one focuses on my favorite topic: airline pricing. (note: i’ve cleaned up the language in the email a bit for clarity.) i have a question for your ask cranky section that i would love for you to take a look at. … cf on feb 7, 2018 feb 8, 2018 how long do i have to use my airline ticket? (ask cranky) how long do i have to use my airline ticket? (ask cranky) i realize the title of this sounds odd since, you know, you usually just use your ticket when you take the flights you booked. but tickets themselves have independent value, and if your plans change, you can usually cancel the flights you booked originally and save that ticket for future … cf on jan 17, 2018 jan 18, 2018 how do airlines come up with these ridiculous fares? (ask cranky) how do airlines come up with these ridiculous fares? (ask cranky) airline pricing is always something that captivates and confuses people, and i love talking about it. i received this great question with a pricing example from a reader which gives me a good excuse to ramble about the dynamics at play. as you can guess from the dates in here, … cf on jun 14, 2017 jun 19, 2017 why did delta move my departure time earlier at the last minute? (ask cranky) why did delta move my departure time earlier at the last minute? (ask cranky) let’s get this week started with an ask cranky question, shall we? at first read, i thought this was kind of a basic question, but i quickly realized i was wrong. delta is doing something rather interesting here. take it away, michael… my girlfriend is in grad school at michigan … cf on nov 13, 2016 nov 14, 2016 how can norwegian fly charters between the us and mexico? (ask cranky) how can norwegian fly charters between the us and mexico? (ask cranky) back in july, norwegian announced that it would start doing charter flying for apple vacations and funjet vacations this winter. that may not sound all that strange until you realize that norwegian will be operating flights from milwaukee and chicago into mexico and the caribbean. i received several questions from … cf on sep 29, 2016 sep 29, 2016 why do fares vary by country? (ask cranky) why do fares vary by country? (ask cranky) the time has come for another ask cranky question. i’ll admit, this one came in a long time ago, but it’s one that i get asked in various forms on a semi-regular basis. so let’s dive right in. i recently found myself booking some tickets originating in africa and was … cf on apr 11, 2016 apr 12, 2016 why doesn’t southwest fly redeyes? (ask cranky) why doesn’t southwest fly redeyes? (ask cranky) i’m on vacation all this week, but that doesn’t mean i’m leaving you hanging. i have new posts ready to go on the usual schedule this week, including today’s post about the lack of redeyes on southwest. i will be slower at approving any flagged comments and responding to any … cf on may 21, 2015 may 25, 2015 posts navigation page 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 nextnext footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site!