skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events ask the bartender like any good tavern, the bartender is available to hear your troubles and provide advice. welcome to a new article series from wp tavern. in keeping up with the tavern theme and advice columns available through traditional media, we wanted to test the waters and see how such a column would work on this site. at the moment, this is an experimental series, but we are excited about the possibilities. our staff has a wide-range of expertise spanning over 15 years, so it made sense to use that expertise to help the wordpress community. if you have a wordpress-related question, post it in the form below. we’ll gather up the questions periodically (weekly or bi-weekly, depending on submissions) and offer our advice. the big thing is that we don’t want this to be a technical support service. use the official wordpress support forum for that sort of thing. use this form for the “big” questions, whatever they may be. submit your question name(required) email(required) question(required) submit recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram