video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map connect with business experts in one-on-one virtual sessions have questions about starting and running your own business, or managing work-life balance? our experts will answer your questions, provide advice and offer insights. view our experts how it works step one choose an expert choose from our list of qualified experts below, each specializes in a subject matter. check out the experts now. step two book a time access the calendar of your chosen expert, check their availability and pick a date and time that suits you. step three start your session at the time of your session, all you have to do is click a secure link in your email and have a video meeting with your expert. what people are saying abi olukeye founder, raising smart girls (charlotte, nc) “elizabeth was very easy to talk to. she generously shared resources that i could tap into to grow my business. she talked me throu...” read more katy trost acc certified coach “i absolutely love the idea of getting one-on-one time with jason/an expert, who clearly has incredible knowledge and experience o...” read more gloria mitchell crisis life coach and host of the living a phenomenal life podcast “my call with jason feifer was great! he provided invaluable perspective regarding the next stages of my business. the insight gain...” read more emily brockway cofounder - noken “terry quickly became very invaluable to me, and i realized i needed his assistance and his guidance a lot more than just for faceb...” read more abi olukeye founder, raising smart girls (charlotte, nc) “elizabeth was very easy to talk to. she generously shared resources that i could tap into to grow my business. she talked me through a launch plan, sharing from her own experiences launching alice. she also didn’t hesitate to connect me to people in her network that could help me. i would highly recommend a session with elizabeth.” katy trost acc certified coach “i absolutely love the idea of getting one-on-one time with jason/an expert, who clearly has incredible knowledge and experience on everything pr, pitching and writing. i got great insights on what’s truly important when looking to get published. getting press and exposure in the digital age is one of the fastest and most credible ways to build a brand. jason was very helpful, gave valuable tips for my specific situation and really cared.” gloria mitchell crisis life coach and host of the living a phenomenal life podcast “my call with jason feifer was great! he provided invaluable perspective regarding the next stages of my business. the insight gained from the call went far beyond anything i could have read in an article or a book. booking a call with him was one of the best decisions i've made for my business.” emily brockway cofounder - noken “terry quickly became very invaluable to me, and i realized i needed his assistance and his guidance a lot more than just for facebook, but also for google analytics and getting a way better understanding of who it was we were speaking to, and how they were responding to our messages. as a busy entrepreneur, it's great to have someone on-call to make sense of all the technical aspects associated with growing my business.” our experts jason feifer editor in chief, entrepreneur jason is editor in chief of entrepreneur magazine, a keynote speaker, and host of the podcasts problem solvers and pessimists archive. he has been an editor at fast company, men’s health, maxim, and boston, and written about business and technology for the washington post, new york times, slate, new york magazine, and others. please note: sessions with jason are designed to share perspectives and advice, not to pitch stories for coverage. pitches can always be emailed to any entrepreneur editor. expertise: storytelling motivation pitching your business to media personal branding public speaking writing podcasting book a session learn more kathleen griffith marketing entrepreneur, investor & change agent best known for fearless strategy, kathleen griffith is the founder and ceo of grayce & co, a marketing and media consultancy that helps leading fortune 100 brands and media companies. kathleen is committed to advancing women through grayce & co ventures and build like a woman™, which helps female-founded businesses scale and succeed. she has been named a "top 40 disruptor" by adweek, "female lead" by fast company, "leading woman in business" by huffington post and "creative innovator" by conde nast. kathleen also serves as a judge on entrepreneur's elevator pitch. expertise: growth strategy brand strategy marketing go-to-market starting a business work/life balance personal/professional growth book a session learn more david meltzer top 100 business coach in the world david is the current ceo of sports 1 marketing and s1media house, and also serves as executive producer and main judge of entrepreneur’s elevator pitch, providing constructive insight for countless entrepreneurs worldwide. named a top 100 business coach by marshall goldsmith, david has also been recognized as a humanitarian and speaker by outlets such as entrepreneur, forbes, and variety. he is also an international best-selling author and hosts the top 5 podcast, "the playbook". expertise: building brand awareness writing a book building a podcast becoming a speaker how and when to raise money developing a playbook for success book a session learn more terry rice digital marketing expert-in-residence, entrepreneur nyu adjunct terry rice has been in the digital marketing field since 2007 – most notably, helping companies achieve their marketing goals while working at adobe and facebook. as an independent consultant, he helps clients identify the audiences, platforms and tactics aligned with reaching their campaign and growth goals. with a heavy focus on campaign planning, execution and optimization, he also provides guidance on best practices for content marketing. in addition to working with established businesses, he serves as a startup mentor at organizations including techstars and the nyu entrepreneurial institute. expertise: digital marketing campaign planning measurement and optimization audience discovery and targeting website tracking and analytics content marketing social media marketing paid facebook and instagram ads paid and organic search marketing book a session learn more brittney castro cfp®, aams®, crpc® founder & ceo, financially wise inc. brittney castro, cfp®, aams®, crpc®, entrepreneur and speaker is the founder and ceo of financially wise inc., a fee-only financial planning firm. she has been featured on cnn, cnbc, the wsj, the ny times, and ranked as the 6th investopedia top influential financial advisors and elected as one of the 22 "women to watch" by investmentnews in 20018. she serves as the chase financial education ambassador and as a cfp® pro spokeswoman. brittney enjoys meditating, traveling, and of course dancing. expertise: starting a business understanding business financials business and personal finance work/life balance marketing growing brand recognition getting paid speaking getting paid brand partnerships getting national media recognition building the dream team connecting with influencers book a session learn more patti fletcher ceo of psdnetwork, llc dr. patti fletcher, author of disrupters: success strategies from women who break the mold, is an award-winning marketing and business influencer, board member, angel investor and keynote speaker. dr. patti’s media features include nasdaq, bloomberg, entrepreneur.com, the guardian, forbes, time, realsimple, fortune, and newsweek. she advises start-ups to fortune 500s including sap, ibm, salesforce, aig, intuit, and kaiser permanente and works with sap successfactors as a leadership futurist. expertise: board readiness large-scale cultural change catalyst getting unstuck equity in the workplace executive leadership development for women millennials and baby boomers living your passion through your profession branding marketing growth strategies book a session learn more kim perell entrepreneur, angel investor, marketing technology ceo kim perell is an award-winning entrepreneur, executive, angel investor, national bestselling author of ‘the execution factor’ and ceo of a global marketing technology company. laid off from her first job, kim began her journey as an entrepreneur from her kitchen, becoming a multi-millionaire by the time she was 30, and selling her last company for $235 million. kim has been named one of adage’s marketing technology trailblazers, business insider’s most powerful women in mobile advertising, is an ernst & young entrepreneur of the year, and has been profiled by cnn money, new york times, and forbes. expertise: starting a business side hustles scaling a company getting capital pitching vcs being a ceo and founder growth strategy overcoming obstacles entrepreneurship mergers and acquisitions book a session learn more dustin mathews speaker. author. investor. chief wealth evangelist, wealthfit sought after by the biggest names in business to monetize their message, mission or movement, dustin mathews is the mentor and coach to the stars. dustin is the author of many best selling books including the no b.s. guide to powerful presentations: how to sell anything with webinars & online media, speeches & seminars, host of the "get wealthfit!" show & the chief wealth evangelist at wealthfit.com. dustin codified a process for creating and selling products – irresistible offer architecture® which recently received recognition by the united states patent and trademark office. expertise: speaking powerfully webinars influence growth marketing connecting with influencers book a session learn more nicole lapin nyt bestselling author and financial news anchor nicole lapin is the new york times bestselling author of rich bitch and boss bitch. as the youngest-ever anchor on cnn and cnbc, lapin has anchored for bloomberg tv and currently hosts the cw’s business reality competition show “hatched”; in addition to contributing regularly to dr. oz and good morning america. she is the first female “money expert of the year” winner and recently launched the personal finance course the money school. her third book, becoming super woman, is due september 2019. expertise: building a personal brand writing/selling a bestselling book personal finance press pitching media training career coaching book a session learn more jonathan horowitz founder & ceo of millennial marketing group, former vp of jerry media as vp of operations at jerry media, jon horowitz leveraged his early-stage startup experiences to turn the largest comedy accounts on instagram into a full service digital agency. after activating marketing campaigns for fortune 500 brands, including winning a shorty award for native advertising for his social campaign for general mills - jon left to start his own agency, millennial marketing group, dedicated to helping brands with social media, influencers and innovative content. expertise: social media marketing influencer marketing content marketing facebook and instagram strategy marketplace growth strategies millennial marketing book a session learn more amina altai holistic business & mindset coach amina altai is a holistic business & mindset coach and corporate trainer. over a decade in marketing (where she helped launch over 30 start-ups) and grappling with two autoimmune diseases lead amina to burnout. in hopes of healing her own life, she sought training in nutrition, fitness & mindfulness. she now teaches entrepreneurs and intrapreneurs how to balance a thriving career, body and mind. amina has worked with deloitte, y&r, outdoor voices, nyu & huge and is an entrepreneur magazine expert-in-residence and writes for thrive global, mindbodygreen, the observer, yahoo and more. expertise: business coaching mindset coaching leadership coaching brand strategy book a session learn more corene summers healer. well-being expert. fellow entrepreneur corene summers is an expert in tailoring the ancient wisdom of meditation, mindfulness, yoga and holistic techniques to our modern world. she’s a certified corporate wellness specialist©, founder of artisan farmacy), an international meditation & yoga teacher, reiki master, holistic life coach, writer, advisor & content contributor for the meditation.live app. corene supports clients in advancing their health, careers and lives overall through reducing stress, tension and optimizing sleep; increasing energy, focus creativity, innovation and success. expertise: meditation and mindfulness holistic life coaching corporate well-being reiki yoga therapy stress relief creativity and innovation focus and productivity entrepreneurship book a session learn more mike koenigs advisor to tony robbins, dave asprey, paula abdul, darren hardy, peter diamandis, richard dreyfuss, brian tracy and you! meet mike koenigs by watching his “sizzle reel” narrated by tony robbins. if you want to build, scale and sell your business, you want advice from someone who's done it more than once. mike built and sold two businesses to publicly-traded companies, his first to ipg/interpublic group and two were private exits. past clients include sony, 20th century fox, general mills, bmw and 3m. as an entrepreneur, you need to be positioned as a celebrity-class influencer, authority and thought-leader. he's helped over 1,800 entrepreneurs become bestselling authors and top-rated speakers to share their message with integrity and authenticity. expertise: starting a business selling a business branding closing big-ticket sales building a platform launching a podcast product creation product launches speaking and selling from stage business advisor/coaching/consulting book a session learn more charlene walters, mba, phd author, speaker, entrepreneurship/motivational coach, personal branding mentor, higher ed. executive need a mentor, accountability partner or co-strategist? charlene walters is a business/branding expert who developed and leads a digital entrepreneurship mba program. she is also an entrepreneur and has held a variety of sales, management and marketing roles at startups and larger corporations. charlene enjoys combining her knowledge and love of marketing and business strategy with her passion for innovation and desire to help others succeed. her biggest fulfillment comes from working one on one with entrepreneurs to hone their personal brands and further their business strategies and entrepreneurial goals. charlene is also the author of "own your other" a memoir about overcoming tragedy/loss and moving forward in life based on her own personal experience. as part of that, she serves as a motivational speaker and mentor to others, and writes and contributes to numerous publications on business and motivational topics. she looks forward to helping you achieve your business and personal goals. expertise: personal branding entrepreneurship life/career coaching starting a business business growth/strategy accountability partner branding/marketing work-life integration business planning writing/thought leadership book a session learn more debbie allen speaker, business mentor & author debbie allen’s decades of entrepreneurial wisdom and business building experience have allowed her to successfully mentor a diverse group of small business owners, entreprenuers and franchise owners in growing their companies. her years of expertise comes from building and selling numerous highly successful companies of her own since the age of 19. expertise: starting a business business strategy growth strategies building a personal brand entrepreneurship speaking and selling from stage business advisor/coaching/consulting book a session learn more ross o'brien ceo & founder bonaventure equity, llc ross is the founder & ceo of bonaventure equity, a cannabis venture capital fund, and runs the cannabis dealmakers summit, a series of industry conferences and investment forums. ross sits on the boards of the green ignition ventures, florida’s first cannabis accelerator and cannamexico and is author of “cannabis capital” the first book on cannabis venture capital for entrepreneur press. expertise: venture capital entrepreneurship cannabis investing raising capital finance leadership exit strategies book a session learn more interested in becoming an entrepreneur expert? we’d love to hear from you. tell us more about you in the form below. company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account