skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more askpat podcast privacy policy effective date: november 1, 2017 we are committed to being transparent when it comes to our privacy practices for ask pat on smartpassiveincome.com (“ask pat”). we created this privacy policy (“policy”) to explain our practices so you know what to expect when visiting us or submitting information. this policy applies only to our practices for ask pat, and not smartpassiveincome.com. information collection practices (a) categories of personally identifiable information. we collect personally identifiable information from you as follows: (i) general contact – if you contact us with a question, we will collect your name and email address so that we can respond to the request. (ii) comments – if you submit a comment, we collect your name and email address. you may use an anonymous name. (iii) requests to be guests – you may submit a request to appear as a guest on ask pat. when you do so, we ask you for information including, but not limited to, the following: name business name email address phone number skype id how long have you been in business annual revenues email list size struggles why you would want coaching from pat flynn (iv) episode content – if you are chosen to appear on an ask pat episode, we will ask you questions about yourself and the business that will be recorded and broadcasted as part of the episode. all episodes are available to the general public as will be any personal information you provide in the episode in question. (b) modification or removal process. please contact us if you wish to modify your information. (c) privacy policy modifications and updates. we may update and modify this privacy policy. if we modify or update the policy, we will post a notice on the ask pat page on smartpassiveincome.com for 30 days prior to the change going into effect. (d) effective date: the effective date of this new privacy policy shall be november 1, 2017. (e) do not track signals. we do not currently honor “do not track” signals issued by browsers or other third party sources. (f) third party tracking: as a matter of transparency, we've decided to disclose to you whether third parties can acquire and track your personally identifiable information through our website. google and other sites listed below can track you through ask pat as we use their services for social media and infrastructure purposes. google participates in the nia opt-out program. you can visit this link to terminate most tracking. you can also visit the following sites to read their privacy policies and how they track individuals across the web: • facebook • linkedin • twitter • youtube what additional information do we collect? (a) automatic collection. our servers automatically recognize visitors’ domain names and ip addresses (the number assigned to computers on the internet). no personal information about you is revealed in this process. we may also gather anonymous aggregate “traffic data” that does not personally identify you, but that may be helpful for marketing purposes or for improving the services we offer. (b) cookies. we may use “cookies” to store a small piece of data on your computer during your visit to collect information. the cookies are used to gain information on how you locate and interact with ask pat. use and sharing of information (a) personal information. we will not share personal information you submit to us as part of an inquiry with anyone but our vendors who might accidentally interact with the information. comments you submit will be viewed by the public via the third-party disqus commenting platform we use to facilitate comments on ask pat. if you submit information as part of a request to appear as a guest, the personal information will be made available to the public as part of your episode appearance. (b) anonymous information. we use anonymous information to analyze our traffic. in addition, we may use anonymous ip addresses to help diagnose technical issues with askpat. traffic and transaction information may also be shared with business partners and advertisers on an aggregate and anonymous basis. your personal information will not be detailed in this aggregate data. (c) use of cookies. we use information obtained from cookies to analyze your use of ask pat and to make appropriate adjustments to our business strategies. (d) disclosure of personal information. we may disclose personal information if required to do so by law or in the good-faith belief that such action is necessary to (1) conform to the edicts of the law or comply with legal process served on ask pat, (2) protect and defend the rights or property of ask pat or the visitors and guests of ask pat, or (3) act under exigent circumstances to protect the safety of the public or our visitors. (e) sale of information. we may sell all or part of ask pat in the future. if we do, your personal information will be considered part of the assets sold to the buyer and your personal information will be transferred to the buyer as part of the sale. (f) dmca claim disclosures. we comply with the digital millennium copyright act of 1998, better known as the “dmca”. should we receive a claim of copyright infringement, we will comply with the safe harbor requirements of the dmca. part of that compliance may require the disclosure of your identity if you are either the allegedly infringing party or the party filing the copyright infringement complaint. security ask pat has reasonable security measures in place such as secure sockets layer protocols to prevent the loss, misuse, and alteration of the information that we obtain from you, but we make no assurances about our ability to prevent any such loss, misuse, to you or to any third party arising out of any such loss, misuse, or alteration. if we suffer a data breach, we will provide notice pursuant to legal requirements. third party websites the site contains links to and interfaces with third party websites and online platforms. these websites and online platforms have established their own privacy policies. you are encouraged to read those documents as we have no control over their provisions and said documents may differ greatly from our privacy practices. if you have any questions about this policy, please contact us with the submission form at the bottom of the page here. want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less