sign in•sign up search home premium local radio recents trending music sports news talk podcasts by location by language sign in sign up start free trial download app askpat 2.0: a weekly coaching call on online business, blogging, marketing, and lifestyle design business & economics podcasts i’m pat flynn, a regular guy who happens to be a successful online entrepreneur. you may know me from my other podcast, smart passive income, which is consistently ranked as a #1 business podcast. i love hearing from my fans, and the opportunity to answer their questions was why i started the original askpat podcast. after 1,000 very successful episodes, i’m making askpat even better! askpat 2.0 takes the askpat template and goes deeper with a weekly coaching call between me and an entrepreneur just like you! i won't be able to coach everyone, but i'll do my best to feature entrepreneurs with questions other online business owners can relate to and learn from. if you’re stuck with your online business, just ask pat! now, plug in those headphones because it’s time to learn together about online business, entrepreneurship, internet marketing, audience building, passive income, blogging, list building, virtual assistants, startups, search engine optimization, email marketing, and so much more. #askpat i’m pat flynn, a regular guy who happens to be a successful online entrepreneur. you may know me from my other podcast, smart passive income, which is consistently ranked as a #1 business podcast. i love hearing from my fans, and the opportunity to answer their questions was why i started the original askpat podcast. after 1,000 very successful episodes, i’m making askpat even better! askpat 2.0 takes the askpat template and goes deeper with a weekly coaching call between me and an entrepreneur just like you! i won't be able to coach everyone, but i'll do my best to feature entrepreneurs with questions other online business owners can relate to and learn from. if you’re stuck with your online business, just ask pat! now, plug in those headphones because it’s time to learn together about online business, entrepreneurship, internet marketing, audience building, passive income, blogging, list building, virtual assistants, startups, search engine optimization, email marketing, and so much more. #askpat favoriteshare more information location: united states genres: business & economics podcasts technology podcasts description: i’m pat flynn, a regular guy who happens to be a successful online entrepreneur. you may know me from my other podcast, smart passive income, which is consistently ranked as a #1 business podcast. i love hearing from my fans, and the opportunity to answer their questions was why i started the original askpat podcast. after 1,000 very successful episodes, i’m making askpat even better! askpat 2.0 takes the askpat template and goes deeper with a weekly coaching call between me and an entrepreneur just like you! i won't be able to coach everyone, but i'll do my best to feature entrepreneurs with questions other online business owners can relate to and learn from. if you’re stuck with your online business, just ask pat! now, plug in those headphones because it’s time to learn together about online business, entrepreneurship, internet marketing, audience building, passive income, blogging, list building, virtual assistants, startups, search engine optimization, email marketing, and so much more. #askpat language: english episodes ap 1113: should i create a separate brand for my e-commerce clients? 3/26/2020 more on this week's coaching call, i talk to a bean ninja. that's bean as in bean counter. a great name for a full-service bookkeeping website, right? meryl johnston started her business in 2015 with just $1,000 and a dream of changing the global bookkeeping game, and it's grown into something amazing. sometimes, when we grow our businesses, we have new opportunities that come up and we aren't quite sure how to handle them or how they might even fit into the brand, or even if we should just... duration:00:26:26 ap 1112: how do i grow my podcast from a hobby to a business? 3/19/2020 more marc ronick has a lot going on in the podcasting space, including one show that he's done with his best friend since 2012. it's called the marc and lowell show, and on it, he and lowell make you laugh at real-life things. their stories are relatable, and they're really good at making listeners feel like they are hanging out with friends. but now he's wondering, "how do i grow my podcast from a hobby to a business?" if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the format of this show and... duration:00:30:35 ap 1111: my business is evolving. should i pivot my current podcast or start a new one? 3/12/2020 more ap 1111: my guest for this episode is katie hornor. her podcast is targeted to beginner bloggers and she has 75 episodes behind her. but the people that katie wants to reach in this next phase of her business are established business owners who want to create a legacy. in this episode we discuss whether or not she should pivot her current podcast to reach a new audience or start a new one. if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the format of this show and helping other entrepreneurs,... duration:00:20:18 ap 1110: how do i invite guest writers to contribute to my blog without diluting my own voice? 3/5/2020 more when it's time to scale up, you might be considering opening your blog to guest posts. but today's guest asks, "how do i invite guest writers to contribute to my blog without diluting my own voice?" on this coaching call, i'm talking with betty boiron, a mom blogger and an entrepreneur just like you. she has done a great job of building an audience and getting keyword rankings at her site, mombrite.com, and now she wants to start delivering more to her audience. we discuss how to grow your... duration:00:21:17 ap 1109: i have a successful blog, but how do i diversify my income? 2/27/2020 more adam enfroy has his act together. he's bringing a lot of relevant experience in to his space, he's already found some success on his blog, and he knows its time to expand. he's ready to diversify his income. in this episode, we discuss how he can do that. if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the format of this show and helping other entrepreneurs, can you help me convince others to listen too? all you have to do is leave a quick review and rating on itunes (and subscribe if you... duration:00:30:43 ap 1108: how do i sell authentically without overwhelming and overselling to my audience? 2/20/2020 more in this episode of askpat 2.0, i talk with colette kent, who teaches ayurveda. she tells me that in the ancient days, ayurvedic doctors would only get paid if they had no patients. how's that for a business model? it's making it hard for her to settle on appropriate marketing. together, we come up with a really amazing opportunity for her to connect deeper with her audience and sell and serve at the same time. if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the format of this show and helping... duration:00:20:05 ap 1107: i get traffic, but have no connection to my audience. what do i do? 2/13/2020 more in this episode of askpat, on this episode of askpat 2.0, we're speaking with carrie forrest from cleaneatingkitchen.com. she's been a food blogger for 10 years and is getting 400,000 page views a month. so what's the problem? she wants to connect with her audience, and now, that's not happening. take a listen. if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the format of this show and helping other entrepreneurs, can you help me convince others to listen too? all you have to do is leave a... duration:00:23:41 ap 1106: how do i manage creating new content with my busy life and schedule? 2/6/2020 more in this episode of askpat, we’re talking with sean kenneday, a brand new entrepreneur who wants to learn how to become more productive, especially when it comes to creating content. should he have guests come in to post and share their tips on his blog, striyve.com? or will this wind up making more work for him? he’s got some money to spend, so we also chat about what might be the best ways for him to spend it. check it out! if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the format of this... duration:00:22:58 app 1105: how do i add a subscription model to my online courses? 1/30/2020 more in this episode of askpat, i chat with nick about how he can add a subscription model to his online courses. nick oversees the children and student ministries at his church, and also dedicates his time to helping other churches grow their leadership and their ministries. he's got a family ministry podcast and also a learning site called ministry boost, where he offers classes that he and a team of instructors make available on a one-off basis. he's thinking about ways to grow and support... duration:00:28:27 ap 1104: when is the right time to transition from your full time 9-5 job? 1/23/2020 more in this episode of askpat, i'm talking with jessica rosario. she is in banking from nine to five each day. she also has two teenage daughters, started a nonprofit, is a leader in direct sales, and has a consulting business on the side. when she says that she's "completely exhausted," we totally believe her, right? finally, we explore when is the right time to transition from your full time 9-5 job. learn more about jessica at jessrosario.com. if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the... duration:00:21:09 ap 1103: i'm finding some success but i need more time! what do i do next? 1/16/2020 more this where are they know? episode is kind of a crossover, if you will, because we originally talked to this guest on the smart passive income podcast. in episode 311, “how to build an audience with your hobby,” we talked to phil lichtenberger from scanner school. he was a power-up podcasting student who had taken what he learned and used it to build a strong following in a niche topic about his passion—radio scanners. for this episode of askpat, we explore finding more time in your business... duration:00:26:04 ap 1102: where are they now? erin (1063) 1/9/2020 more today on askpat, we check in with erin from thepetitplanner.com. when we last spoke, on episode 1063, she was feeling like her business had stalled out a little bit. she was trying to figure out how to bring what she offered to new audiences and new markets, and specifically, we talked about different channels she could explore. as you’ll hear, she’s done just that and seen some pretty immediate results. if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the format of this show and helping other... duration:00:26:35 ap 1101: where are they now? lea pica (1055) 1/2/2020 more we usually do where are they now? episodes on askpat for the end of the year, but this year, we had so many great success stories that we decided to keep going. this week, we check back in with lea pica of leapica.com. what was fun about checking in with lea is that she did follow my advice, but it turned out to be a stepping stone to help her realize what she really needed to do. what she ended up realizing was that turning her material into an online course would make her audience feel... duration:00:20:37 ap 1100: where are they now? stacey ogden (1057) 12/26/2019 more stacey helps teachers make more money at side hustle teachers, which offers courses to get started with a business. since we last spoke, she’s been really focusing on communicating with her audience through the side hustle teachers facebook group and via direct emails. we also talk about how stacey has been able to organically grow her facebook group without spending anything on advertising. if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the format of this show and helping other entrepreneurs,... duration:00:23:18 ap 1099: where are they now? kyle chittock (1051) 12/19/2019 more in this episode of askpat, we look at how kyle has been able to turn his business into an overnight success. specifically, i dig into what strategies has made him successful on youtube and how he’s been able to use them to grow his business. we also talk about how much growth is too much, and how to keep things focused on what you want to achieve and not let everything get out of control. it’s so amazing to see growth, and i hope you’re inspired by seeing someone take action and reap the... duration:00:29:18 ap 1098: where are they now? connie neal (1062) 12/12/2019 more in this episode, we talk about when it’s ok to put something on the backburner. you don’t want to back off of something just because you’re in an uncomfortable place and you have to do the hard work. with connie neal, i think it’s different. listen closely to the way her voice lights up when she talks about grandma goodie. i’m really excited by this new direction and i can’t wait to check in again and see where it goes. if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the format of this show and... duration:00:25:35 ap 1097: where are they now? jake gosselin (1053) 12/5/2019 more for this where are they now? episode, we talk to jake gosselin, who runs a membership and coaching site for worship leaders at churchfront.com. since we last spoke, he's been able to double his membership, but now he's wondering if he needs to pivot and go in a new direction with higher-ticket personal coaching. if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the format of this show and helping other entrepreneurs, can you help me convince others to listen too? all you have to do is leave a... duration:00:22:58 ap 1096: where are they now? laura dobbins 11/28/2019 more on askpat 1096, we check back in with laura dobbins from episode 1052. since we last spoke in january, laura has been able to more than double her monthly passive income just by changing the pricing structure of her course, laundromats 101. we also hear about an exciting new project she has in the works, so make sure to listen to the full episode. if you want to be considered for a coaching session, apply via the form at askpat.com. if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the format of... duration:00:22:18 ap 1095: where are they now? julia kuhn 11/21/2019 more on this week's episode of askpat, i check back in with julia kuhn who i first spoke with back in askpat 1054. since february, julia has been able to diversify her income, increase her affiliate earnings, and she's even created a course! plus a whole lot more has changed. listen in! and learn more about julia at thetravelingtraveler.com. if you want to be considered for a coaching session, apply via the form at askpat.com. if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the format of this show... duration:00:23:39 ap 1094: how do i pitch my product better? 11/14/2019 more gordon is a therapist in tennessee who has created a course to help others manage the finances of their private practices, but when it came time to pitch his ideas, things didn't go so well. in this episode, we explore how gordon can adjust his thinking in order to succeed. you can find him at practiceoftherapy.com and the practice of therapy podcast. if you want to be considered for a coaching session, apply via the form at askpat.com. if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the... duration:00:22:39 see more try premium for 30 days live games for all nfl, mlb, nba, & nhl teams commercial-free music no display adsstart free trial sports, music, news and podcasts. hear the audio that matters most to you. listen nowsportsmusicnewspodcastsmore about uscontact uscareerspress productsupportdevices communitiesbrandsbroadcasterspodcasters © 2020 tunein, inc. all rights reserved privacytermssitemap