skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more askpat podcast: guidelines for submitting a question follow these guidelines to increase your chance of being selected for a coaching call. how to contribute to askpat if you decide to submit a question for the show—and i really hope you do—you’ll need to abide by a few common sense guidelines. that way everyone wins. on the askpat podcast, i invite a listener on to the show for a coaching call, where i answer questions about running an online business. to qualify for the show, submissions need to follow these rules: fill out the form that is linked to the “apply for coaching” button on askpat.com. this short form will ask you a series of questions about your business and about the nature of the problem for which you would like my advice. at the end of the survey, you will have the opportunity to record a brief message about your question and how you think my advice on your problem will be helpful to the askpat podcast 2.0 audience. please keep your response to one minute in length. if it goes a little over, that’s fine, but please keep it concise and to the point. you do not have to record a message but failing to do so will decrease the likelihood that your application gets selected. spammy, disrespectful, or deeply private questions will not be considered for the podcast. please keep it polite, non-spammy, and business-focused. thanks! to leave a question, all you need is an internet connection, a little time to fill out the web-based application, and microphone (headphone mics work too). don’t worry about your microphone’s quality—your job is to ask a great question! speakpipe.com, the web service we use to capture your message, handles the rest of the audio recording. it’s pretty cool. i get a lot of applications for askpat 2.0 coaching, which i love! because of this volume, i won't be able to answer every question. submitting a qualified question is no guarantee that it will be featured on the podcast. i’ll get to as many qualified questions as i can, but if your question is similar to (or the same as) one we’ve already addressed, or if it doesn’t fit with the vibe of the show, then i’ll have to skip it. thanks for understanding, and thanks for listening. please remember that by submitting an application and voicemail question, you’re agreeing to and accepting of the above podcast guidelines as well as allowing me to share it publicly on the podcast. click here for more details on our askpat terms of use and our privacy policy. want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less