stitcher for podcasts get the app open app error - there was an error with your download request. try again later. close get the stitcher app take your podcasts on-the-go! download the free app get the stitcher app send a link to your phone to take your podcasts on the go. we sent you a link did you get it? retry close bummer! you're not a stitcher premium subscriber yet. learn more start free trial $4.99/month after free trial get the app learn more premium top shows listen shows see more shows and episodes sign in sign up help askpat 2.0: a weekly coaching call on online business, blogging, marketing, and lifestyle design play play this show add to playlist shareshare this show facebook tweet linkedin cancel about this show show info: i’m pat flynn, a regular guy who happens to be a successful online entrepreneur. you may know me from my other podcast, smart passive income, which is consistently ranked as a #1 business podcast. i love hearing from my fans, and the opportunity to answer their questions was why i started the original askpat podcast. after 1,000 very successful episodes, i’m making askpat even better! askpat 2.0 takes the askpat template and goes deeper with a weekly coaching call between me and an entrepreneur just like you! i won't be able to coach everyone, but i'll do my best to feature entrepreneurs with questions other online business owners can relate to and learn from. if you’re stuck with your online business, just ask pat! now, plug in those headphones because it’s time to learn together about online business, entrepreneurship, internet marketing, audience building, passive income, blogging, list building, virtual assistants, startups, search engine optimization, email marketing, and so much more. #askpat.read more » i’m pat flynn, a regular guy who happens to be a successful online entrepreneur. you may know me from my other podcast, smart passive income, which is consistently ranked as a #1 business podcast. i love hearing from my fans, and the opportunity to answer their questions was why i started the original askpat podcast. after 1,000 very successful episodes, i’m making askpat even better! askpat 2.0 takes the askpat template and goes deeper with a weekly coaching call between me and an entrepreneur just like you! i won't be able to coach everyone, but i'll do my best to feature entrepreneurs with questions other online business owners can relate to and learn from. if you’re stuck with your online business, just ask pat! now, plug in those headphones because it’s time to learn together about online business, entrepreneurship, internet marketing, audience building, passive income, blogging, list building, virtual assistants, startups, search engine optimization, email marketing, and so much more. #askpat. read less @patflynn /smartpassiveincome website listen whenever ios android web player related shows most recent episode play save episode ap 1113: should i create a separate brand for my e-commerce clients? 1 day ago · 26 minutes on this week's coaching call, i talk to a bean ninja. that's bean as in bean counter. a great name for a full-service bookkeeping website, right? meryl johnston started her business in 2015 with just $1,000 and a dream of changing the global bookkeeping game, and it's grown into something amazing. sometimes, when we grow our businesses, we have new opportunities that come up and we aren't quite sure how to handle them or how they might even fit into the brand, or even if we should just ignore the opportunity altogether. meryl is here to talk about whether she should add services for a new audience onto her brand and if so, how to do it. if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the format of this show and helping other entrepreneurs, can you help me convince others to listen too? all you have to do is leave a quick review and rating on itunes (and subscribe if you haven't already). that would mean the world to me, so thank you so much! today’s sponsor is freshbooks, who make the best financial management software out there. it’s ridiculously easy to use and their interface is highly-visual and super-intuitive. you can actually get an unrestricted, thirty-day trial for free; just go to freshbooks.com/askpat and enter “ask pat” in the “how did you hear about us?” section. buy my new book superfans! read more » on this week's coaching call, i talk to a bean ninja. that's bean as in bean counter. a great name for a full-service bookkeeping website, right? meryl johnston started her business in 2015 with just $1,000 and a dream of changing the global bookkeeping game, and it's grown into something amazing. sometimes, when we grow our businesses, we have new opportunities that come up and we aren't quite sure how to handle them or how they might even fit into the brand, or even if we should just ignore the opportunity altogether. meryl is here to talk about whether she should add services for a new audience onto her brand and if so, how to do it. if you enjoyed today's episode and you love the format of this show and helping other entrepreneurs, can you help me convince others to listen too? all you have to do is leave a quick review and rating on itunes (and subscribe if you haven't already). that would mean the world to me, so thank you so much! today’s sponsor is freshbooks, who make the best financial management software out there. it’s ridiculously easy to use and their interface is highly-visual and super-intuitive. you can actually get an unrestricted, thirty-day trial for free; just go to freshbooks.com/askpat and enter “ask pat” in the “how did you hear about us?” section. buy my new book superfans!read less embed episodes of this show ap 1112: how do i grow my podcast from a hobby to a business? 31 minutes | · mar 19 play play this show ap 1111: my business is evolving. should i pivot my current podcast or start a new one? 20 minutes | · mar 12 play play this show ap 1110: how do i invite guest writers to contribute to my blog without diluting my own voice? 21 minutes | · mar 5 play play this show ap 1109: i have a successful blog, but how do i diversify my income? 31 minutes | · feb 27 play play this show load more episodes bvseo_sdk, p_sdk, 3.2.0 cloud, getreviews, 938.47ms reviews, product bvseo-msg: error - failed to connect to 2600:9000:201e:cc00:2:540:f780:93a1: network is unreachable; http status code of 0 was returned; the easiest way to listen to podcasts on your iphone, ipad, android, pc, smart speaker — and even in your car. for free. bonus and ad-free content available with stitcher premium. get the free app now available for iphone, ipad, android and alexa © stitcher 2019, all content is copyright of its owners. this site is protected by recaptcha and the google privacy policy and terms of service apply podcasts stitcher originals the stitcher list news technology business news sports storytelling partners partner signup partner portal partner faq advertisers about download podswag gifting midroll newsroom stitcher blog careers faqs contact privacy do not sell my info terms of use sitemap follow us