skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more askpat podcast terms of use binding effect. this is a binding agreement between you and flynndustries, llc dba smart passive income. by submitting a request to appear as a guest on ask pat (hereinafter “ask pat”, “we”, “our”, “us”), you expressly agree to the terms and conditions detailed herein. ask pat is intended only for individuals aged 18 or older. privacy policy. we believe in being transparent in relation to our privacy practices when collecting information from you which you can find in our privacy policy. the ask pat privacy policy is expressly incorporated into these terms of use by this reference. requests to be guests. you may submit a request to appear as a guest on an episode of ask pat during which you will receive advice regarding the subject matter submitted and your business in general as decided by ask pat. you may only submit one request to appear per calender week. ask pat shall select one entry from all entries received to appear on an ask pat episode with the selection made in the sole discretion of the host of ask pat. your submission of a request to appear does not guarantee you will be selected. shared information. if you are selected to appear on ask pat, you acknowledge and agree that information you’ve submitted will be discussed and expanded upon in an episode that will be available to an audience consisting of the general public, including your potential competitors. should you have any trade secrets or other confidential information you do not wish shared, you should either not participate in ask pat or alert us prior to the recording of the episode. ask pat shall then, in its sole discretion, determine whether to proceed with the appearance. to this end, you guarantee and warrant your appearance on ask pat and the information you provide thereon will not violate or materially breach any other contractual agreement or obligations you have with a third party. your content and information. you grant ask pat a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, perpetual (for the duration of the applicable copyright) license to use the information and materials you submit to ask pat when requesting to be a guest and during your appearance on ask pat (“information and materials”) as follows: (a) to reproduce the information and materials in video, audio, and textual form as an ask pat episode; (b) to create and reproduce derivative works incorporating all or part of the information and materials; (c) to distribute copies of, display publicly, perform publicly, and perform publicly by means of a digital audio transmission the information and materials as part of an ask pat episode or a derivative work. these rights may be exercised in all media and formats whether now known or hereafter devised and include the right to make such modifications as are technically necessary to exercise the rights in other media and formats. you agree that ask pat may publish or otherwise disclose your name and image in connection with the information and materials and hereby waive any right of publicity or privacy claims. by providing information and materials to ask pat, you warrant and represent that you own the rights to the information and materials or are otherwise authorized to post, distribute, display, perform, transmit, or otherwise distribute it. recording, broadcast, performance. in submitting a request to appear or appearing on ask pat, you hereby consent to the recording, broadcasting, publicly performance, and other distribution of your voice, image, and the content of the episode you appear in including, but not limited to, information and materials provided by you as part of an ask pat episode. to this end, you expressly waive any privacy or right of publicity claims. you further acknowledge that ask pat is the sole owner of all rights in and to the episode, and the recording thereof, including the use of information and materials you submit under the license detailed herein these terms of use, for all purposes; and has the right, among other things, to edit and distribute the episode one or more times by any medium or mode of transmission whatsoever without your permission. you further grant ask pat the right to include a recording of the episode in a compilation of ask pat episodes and to provide text versions of the recording to the ask pat audience. consideration. you will receive no monetary compensation in consideration for entering into this agreement, assigning rights to ask pat, or appearing on an ask pat episode. the value of receiving advice at no cost from pat flynn on an ask pat episode and having yourself, your business, and, if applicable, a product or service exposed to the audience of ask pat shall be considered the consideration granted to you for entering into this agreement. outcomes. you understand and agree that the advice and coaching you receive from ask pat is not guaranteed or warranted to produce a particular income or outcome including, but not limited to, a resolution of any business difficulties you are experiencing or growth in business revenues and profits. compliance with intellectual property laws. when accessing ask pat or submitting comments or requests to appear in an episode, you agree to obey the law and to respect the intellectual property rights of others. your use of and submissions to ask pat is at all times governed by and subject to laws regarding copyright ownership and use of intellectual property. you agree not to upload, download, display, perform, transmit, or otherwise distribute any information or content (collectively “content”) in violation of any third party’s copyrights, trademarks, or other intellectual property or proprietary rights. you agree to abide by laws regarding copyright ownership and use of intellectual property, and you shall be solely responsible for any violations of any relevant laws and for any infringements of third party rights caused by any content you provide or transmit. the burden of proving that any content does not violate any laws or third party rights rests solely with you. inappropriate content. you shall not submit the following types of content to ask pat: any content that (a) is libelous, defamatory, obscene, pornographic, abusive, or threatening; (b) advocates or encourages conduct that could constitute a criminal offense, give rise to civil liability, or otherwise violate any applicable local, state, national, or foreign law or regulation; or (c) advertises or otherwise solicits funds or is a solicitation for goods or services. we reserve the right to terminate your receipt, transmission, or other distribution of any such material, and, if applicable, to delete any such material from the ask pat servers. we intend to cooperate fully with any law enforcement officials or agencies in the investigation of any violation of these terms of use or any applicable laws. copyright infringement. we have in place certain legally mandated procedures regarding allegations of copyright infringement. please visit our dmca policy link at the bottom of the site pages to view our digital millennium copyright act takedown policies and to submit a claim of infringement. our dmca policy is expressly incorporated into this agreement by this reference. no warranties. ask pat hereby disclaims all warranties. we are making ask pat available “as is” without warranty of any kind. you assume the risk of any and all damage or loss from use of, or inability to use, ask pat. to the maximum extent permitted by law, ask pat expressly disclaims any and all warranties, express or implied, regarding ask pat, including, but not limited to, any implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or noninfringement. we do not warrant that ask pat will meet your requirements or that the operation of ask pat will be uninterrupted or error-free. limited liability. our liability to you is limited. to the maximum extent permitted by law, in no event shall ask pat be liable for damages of any kind (including, but not limited to, special, incidental, or consequential damages, lost profits, or lost data, regardless of the foreseeability of those damages) arising out of or in connection with your use of the site, ask pat, or any information and materials offered in an episode of ask pat. this limitation shall apply regardless of whether the damages arise out of breach of contract, tort, or any other legal theory or form of action. notwithstanding the above, should you be declared the prevailing party in any legal action against us, you agree the maximum award permitted shall be no more than one thousand united states dollars ($1,000). affiliated sites. from time-to-time, third party companies and links to such companies may be mentioned in ask pat episodes and supporting documentation. because we have no control over the content and performance of these third parties, we make no guarantees about the accuracy, currency, content, or quality of the information provided by these parties, their products, services, and digital properties such as sites and apps. we assume no responsibility for unintended, objectionable, inaccurate, misleading, or unlawful content that may reside on those sites. prohibited uses. we impose certain restrictions on your permissible use of ask pat. you are prohibited from violating or attempting to violate any security features used by ask pat, including, without limitation, (a) accessing content or data not intended for you, or logging onto a server or account that you are not authorized to access; (b) attempting to probe, scan, or test the vulnerability of ask pat, or any associated system or network, or to breach security or authentication measures without proper authorization; (c) interfering or attempting to interfere with service to any user, host, or network, including, without limitation, by means of submitting a virus to the ask pat platforms, overloading, “flooding,” “spamming,” “mail bombing,” or “crashing;” (d) or attempting to modify, reverse-engineer, decompile, disassemble, or otherwise reduce or attempt to reduce to a human-perceivable form any of the source code used by ask pat. any violation of system or network security may subject you to civil and/or criminal liability. indemnity. you agree to indemnify ask pat for certain of your acts and omissions. you agree to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless ask pat, its affiliates, officers, directors, employees, consultants, agents, and representatives from any and all third party claims, losses, liability, damages, and/or costs (including reasonable attorney fees and costs) arising from your access to ask pat or appearance in an episode, your violation of these terms of use, or your infringement of any intellectual property or other right of any person or entity. we will notify you promptly of any such claim, loss, liability, or demand, and will provide you with reasonable assistance, at your expense, in defending any such claim, loss, liability, damage, or cost. copyright. all contents of ask pat are © 2017 flynndustries, llc. all rights reserved. governing law. these terms of use shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the united states and the state of california, without reference to their rules regarding conflicts of law. you hereby irrevocably consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the state or federal courts in san diego, california depending on the nature of your legal claims, in all disputes arising out of or related to ask pat. severability; waiver. if, for whatever reason, a court of competent jurisdiction finds any term or condition in these terms of use to be unenforceable, all other terms and conditions will remain unaffected and in full force and effect. no waiver of any breach of any provision of these terms of use shall constitute a waiver of any prior, concurrent, or subsequent breach of the same or any other provisions hereof, and no waiver shall be effective unless made in writing and signed by an authorized representative of the waiving party. no license. nothing contained in these terms of use or ask pat should be understood as granting you a license to use any of the trademarks, service marks, or logos owned by ask pat or by any third party. email communications. when you contact us or submit a request to appear on an ask pat episode, you expressly consent and agree to receive email responses from us. these email communications may be commercial or non-commercial in nature. non-commercial emails may include, but are not limited to, administrative issues and announcements of changes to these terms, the privacy policy or other site documentation. united states use only. ask pat is controlled and operated by flynndustries, llc from its offices in the state of california. the domain of the website is registered in the united states and ask pat is hosted in the united states. ask pat does not envisage offering goods or services to individuals in the european union as detailed in the general data protection regulation. the intended audience for ask pat consists of individuals in the united states only. we make no representation that our practices comply with the requirements of any other jurisdiction. your submission of a request to appear on an ask pat episode or visit to the ask pat platform should not be construed as ask pat purposefully availing itself of the benefits or privilege of doing business in any jurisdiction other than the united states. amendments. we reserve the right to amend these terms of use at any time. should we seek to make such an amendment and consider the amendment to be material in nature in our own discretion, we shall publish notice of the change on ask pat and provide thirty (30) days notice of the change. you may then choose to accept the amendment or not during this time period. if you do not accept the amendment, please discontinue your use of ask pat. want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less