pricing case studies faq contact customized research results within 24 hours ask statista askstatista what are the biggest b2b-resellers for laptops in italy 15 most relevant companies were identified, mainly it system houses / infrastructure providers... see case studies why askstatista what makes us special just send us an informal e-mail with your research request and our global network of native speaking statista analysts will provide your needed facts usually within 24 hours based on a customized research. inquire now read more about us simple fast reliable global leading companies trust statista simple & fast how it works 1 your inquiry once you have chosen your package you send us a research request via our contact form 1 2 confirmation we contact you within one hour to confirm the request and clarify questions if necessary 2 3 our delivery we deliver our research results within the promised timeframe - usually within 24 hours 3 4 formalities you get informed how many research credits have been used4 send research request now choose your package flexible pricing to suit your budget silver includes 40 hours of research valid for 12 months full access to statista’s data and expertise to answer your requestseur 4,900 inquire now gold includes 100 hours of research valid for 18 months full access to statista’s data and expertise to answer your requestseur 9,900 inquire now platinum more than 100 hours of research valid for 24 months full access to statista’s data and expertise to answer your requeststailor-made inquire now silvergoldplatinum includes 40 hours of research valid for 12 months full access to statista’s data and expertise to answer your requests eur 4,900 inquire now includes 100 hours of research valid for 18 months full access to statista’s data and expertise to answer your requests eur 9,900 inquire now more than 100 hours of research valid for 24 months full access to statista’s data and expertise to answer your requests tailor-made inquire now statista's global research team benefit from over 200+ industry experts "i like to go the extra mile for my clients to deliver reliable research results which are the basis for important decisions." christian cramer business analyst askstatista europe, us "i enjoy providing my clients with quantitative data based on statista’s knowledge from more than 22,500 exclusive data sources and industry-specific projects." hannane aghayan analyst askstatista europe, middle east "i really know my industry inside-out and i am happy to support my clients with industry-specific data research and new insights via askstatista." christian kascha technology & telecommunication expert read more about us why well-known companies trust askstatista global players using askstatista for their daily business "precise information, fast response times, friendly contact persons: statista is a reliable and trustworthy cooperation partner for the editorial team of our 'morning briefing'." gabor steingart, foundermedia pioneer "from the beginning, the askstatista team showed a high level of competence to solve our problem. an experienced statista inhouse analyst delivered a result that really adds value." michael behr, managing directornutramaxx "i’ve been using askstatista service on several critical projects and can only recommend this team. the speed, breadth and quality of results exceeded my expectations. i will definitely use the service in future!" dmitry logachevskiy, cmi directorcoty get in touch with us select subjectspecific research questiongeneral information please contact me by phone i accept the terms and conditions (pdf) and the privacy statement (pdf) thank you! we received your message and will contact you soon.something went wrong. please try again. contact eike hartmann director projects - research & analysis ask@statista.com +49 (40) 284841-168 mon - fri, 9.00am - 5.00pm, cet imprint