wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » deals » themes » astra theme coupon astra theme coupon astra is a multipurpose wordpress theme that can be used for any type of website. it comes with 90+ ready-made templates to help you quickly get started and save you time. you can easily customize these designs using any popular drag and drop page builders. astra themes are modern with beautiful colors and typography. the best part is that wpbeginner users can get a 10% off on the purchase at astra theme using our exclusive astra theme coupon code. coupon code wpbeginner (click to copy & open site) last used 8 hours ago reviewed by: syed balkhi rating: how to use astra theme coupon code? wpbeginner’s exclusive astra theme coupon code helps you get 10% off on their wordpress theme. all you have to do is follow our instructions below to properly redeem astra theme coupon code, so you can get the best discount on astra theme. first, you need to visit the astra theme website using our link on wpbeginner and click on the ‘download now’ button. this will take you to the pricing page. you can select the annual or lifetime deal for astra theme. simply click on the ‘get started’ button below the plan you want to purchase. it’ll take you to the checkout page. you need to click on the ‘have a discount code? click to enter it’ link and enter our astra theme coupon code: wpbeginner click on the ‘apply’ button and you’ll see the new discounted price. scroll down to select a payment method, add personal info, and create an account on the astra theme website. you need to click on the ‘continue to payment’ button to complete your purchase. we hope you found our astra theme coupon code to be helpful. at wpbeginner, we work hard to negotiate exclusive discounts for our users. please check out other wordpress coupons and deals. other amazing deals bluehost coupon get over 63% off on bluehost packages and a free domain of your choice. view this deal » seedprod coupon get 20% off on seedprod coming soon page plugin for wordpress. view this deal » hostgator coupon get 76% off hostgator, one of the most reliable and popular web hosting companies! view this deal » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.