home comments policy subscribe posts by author: astra_taylor the right to have rights by astra taylor on march 6, 2018 last month the right to have rights, an edited collection i contributed the afterword to, came out with verso. crooked timber’s own corey robin was kind enough to provide an endorsement for the book, which he called “a marvelous deconstruction of a vexing concept, and a wonderful new way of doing theory.” not bad! the book’s form is indeed unique – each of the collaborators takes on a portion of hannah arent’s now famous phrase from the origins of totalitarianism “the right to have rights” (interestingly, the provocative formulation was initially overlooked by readers and not something arendt lingered on or made much of). stephanie degooyer tackles “the right,” lida maxwell examines “to have,” samuel moyn reflects on “rights,” and alastair hunt addresses the implicit question, “of whom?” i’ll just say that writing the afterward was a real treat, mainly because i had never had the chance to deeply engage with arendt before (i had read a few chapters, essays, and excerpts here and there and seen both of the recent movies about her released by zeitgeist films, but that was about it). though i was glad to have an excuse to dig in, my contribution is a rather unorthodox (and not very arendtian) reading informed by my reporting on the refugee crisis in 2015 and my ongoing economic justice work. building on the main contributions, i look at the way people’s citizenship rights are being undercut in an age of globalized capitalism and how neoliberalism and ethno-nationalism are dangerously entwined. as an activist, invoking rights can become a kind of reflex or habit, and sometimes (if i’m honest) a substitute for other kinds of argumentation and imagination, so it was also good to have an occasion to step back and ponder what we’re really talking about when we talk about rights or make entitlement claims. i’m not about to dismiss rights as nonsense upon stilts or bourgeois individualism run amok, but i emerged from this project more critical than when i began. i will certainly be more deliberate (and hopefully more forward-looking or even out there) in any rights demanding effort i’m part of as a result. in honor of the book’s publication, i asked each of the contributors to share some thoughts in response to the same prompt. i asked them to reflect on what, if anything, grounds rights and whether we might need to start thinking about rights in new ways. their replies are below. i’d be curious to hear others reflect on the same prompt in the comments should inspiration strike. the question of how rights might be recognized and fulfilled is a far more interesting and difficult question than what rights are in themselves. we tend to think of rights as the sacrosanct property of certain subjects: the right of individuals to bear arms, the right of citizens to vote, or the right of human beings to life itself. but rights are not inborn properties. if they were, we would never have to exercise a demand or make a claim for them. as much as we can assert a right, there must be a larger communal body that feels obliged or compelled to assume the burden of making sure we can enjoy this right. the question of how we might compel individuals, corporations and states to take up a responsibility for the rights of others is the question we should be asking. – stephanie degooyer we tend to think of rights as self-evident, as grounded in our equality as human beings. but that ground, historically, has been shaky: claims about who is truly human have served to exclude, disenfranchise, and license mass violence against marginalized peoples. arendt alerts us to the shakiness of the ground of rights, and shows us that the way we can stabilize it is not through appeals to morality, but rather through political action and staging of rights. we “have” rights like we “have” a party or a conference: we have to collectively stage, enact, and demand that we all be treated as individuals capable of claiming our rights. we – as collective political actors – are the constantly changing, yet crucial, figures that give rights-claimers a ground to stand on. – lida maxwell arendt’s reflections remind us how little has been done to guarantee rights, especially for outsiders to existing states—as well as insiders whose protections are increasingly precarious, and risk becoming outcasts in their own lands. it remains true today that too many people, as arendt observed, are driven to assert their “humanity” — or have others assert it for them — in the absence of any grounds for rights. – samuel moyn human beings, we say, are born with rights. but rights are not really a function of anyone’s biological make-up: they are things we can enjoy only as members of a political community made when individuals act together in concert. historically when individuals have joined communities, it often came as a big surprise to existing members. a telling mark of the quality of our political communities is whether we reject or welcome those who, because they are rightless, need to become members. – alastair hunt net neutrality is a new deal issue by astra taylor on january 9, 2018 first, a sincere thanks to the crooked timber gang, especially henry, for inviting me to join the party. while i’ve been a long time lurker, i’ve never left a comment on this site—but then again, i don’t think i’ve ever left a comment anywhere online outside of facebook or twitter. which is a sure sign that i’ve never blogged before. but what better time to start then at a moment it seems quaint, even antiquated? from what i can tell with a quick google search, blogging has been dead since 2014. so writing this isn’t exactly like being one of those guys who sit in washington square park writing poetry on their typewriters, but close enough. i’ll also admit that i did briefly entertain the idea of blogging a few years back, and my basic concept was that i would write about things only after they had totally exited the news cycle, reflecting on whatever was in the headlines 30 days, or maybe even 365 days, prior. so in honor of that not very good (and thus left to languish) idea for a blog and the fact i’m writing my first post approximately two decades after the word “weblog” was invented, i thought i’d share some recent thoughts about the internet, specifically net neutrality, and the major blow dealt by fcc chairman ajit pai just before the new year. [click to continue…] virality is a double-edged sword by astra taylor on april 28, 2017 is walkaway a novel? the answer is undoubtedly yes, but as long as i thought about it in terms of literature i’ll confess i found the book a bit confounding. once i re-categorized it in my head as a book of political philosophy, something in the mode of plato’s dialogues (which even get a couple of shout outs from doctorow), i was able to accept, and even enjoy, the text in front of me. the long expository and ideologically-focused conversations (all composed in the same rather pedagogic voice no matter which character is speaking) are extremely engaging by the standards of political theory, and there’s plenty of action—sex, violence, raves, and hanging out in saunas—interspersed with the arguments and explications. and the arguments are thought provoking, if not wholly convincing. which is fine, because it is a novel, after all. [click to continue…] recent comments ravedubin on borders fake dave on crises and the case for socialism j-d on crises and the case for socialism faustusnotes on crises and the case for socialism k on borders search contributors chris bertram ∞ harry brighouse ∞ daniel davies ∞ henry farrell ∞ maria farrell ∞ eszter hargittai ∞ kieran healy ∞ john holbo ∞ serene khader ∞ scott mclemee ∞ john quiggin ∞ eric rauchway ∞ ingrid robeyns ∞ corey robin ∞ miriam ronzoni ∞ gina schouten ∞ astra taylor ∞ belle waring ∞ brian weatherson ∞ rich yeselson∞ old growth michael bérubé ∞ niamh hardiman ∞ jon mandle ∞ montagu norman ∞ tedra osell ∞ tom runnacles ∞ micah schwartzman ∞ click on the ∞ symbol next to a name for a list of all of that author's posts. book events jo walton / thessaly books danielle allen / our constitution ken macleod / various felix gilman / the half-made world/the rise of ransom city jack knight and james johnson / the priority of democracy francis spufford / red plenty david graeber / debt: the first 5,000 years erik olin wright / envisioning real utopias george scialabba / what are intellectuals good for? steven teles / the rise of the conservative legal movement charles stross / various china miéville / iron council chris mooney / the republican war on science dani rodrik / one economics, many recipes joseph carens / the ethics of immigration doug henwood / after the new economy levitt & dubner / freakonomics sheri berman / the primacy of politics susanna clarke / jonathan strange & mr norrell yochai benkler / the wealth of networks lumber room 11d 3 quarks daily a fistful of euros atrios balkinization best of both worlds bleeding heart libertarians blood and treasure brad delong cosma shalizi corey robin critical mass daily kos daily nous daniel drezner digby ed felten eric schliesser edge of the american west feminist philosophers firedoglake glenn greenwald the inverse square jacobin jim henley joshua marshall juan cole kevin drum lawrence solum lawyers, guns and money making light marc lynch marginal revolution mark thoma maud newton michael froomkin miriam burstein naked capitalism new left project the new inquiry pharyngula political theory daily review politics, theory and photography russell arben fox slugger o’toole sociological images steven johnson steven poole talk left tapped the virtual stoa tim lambert timothy burke uncertain principles yorkshire ranter