menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies astrology astrology browse astrology topics close understanding astrology horoscopes aries taurus cancer sign gemini leo virgo libra scorpio new age sagittarius capricorn aquarius pisces birth order how you shine in life, according to your zodiac january nelson this is your life motto, according to your zodiac sign molly burford you should give your heart to a virgo virgo jamie kramer this is how you change when you’re in love, based on your zodiac sign love natalia vela “spiritual practices like tarot and astrology have been around for ages, but are now becoming more prominent in wellness culture. thanks to twitter, trendy horoscope apps like co-star and a wealth of information online, it’s easier than ever to research tarot, read your horoscope and examine your birth chart.” paige smith this is how you end up in a heathy relationship, based on your zodiac element nicole garbanzos what to expect in the month of september, based on your zodiac sign horoscopes andrea davis the hidden message beneath your deepest anxiety, based on your zodiac sign brianna wiest latest astrology articles the 5 types of soulmates you’ll have in your life kelly peacock “ we all have more than one soulmate. the connections we have with certain people spark something in us. they teach us things and show meaning to our lives. what your love life looks like right now, based on your zodiac sign dating january nelson “ virgo: you’re getting dangerously close to texting your ex. the thing about soulmates kelly peacock “ you never realize they belong to you until one of you leaves. the soothing reminder each zodiac needs right now encouragement january nelson “ virgo: doing the right thing is usually the hardest thing. but you cannot let that stop you from doing what is best. how each zodiac sign is dealing with the pandemic coronavirus liane white “ aries: this pandemic has ruined all your plans and you find yourself staying indoors with too much energy to burn. this is why you need each zodiac sign in your life lacey ramburger “ libra: they will show you the beauty in the world, even if it seems impossible. a calming reminder for each zodiac sign horoscopes lacey ramburger “ sagittarius: you don’t have to do everything. you are still a whole person, even if you can’t go everywhere you want to. remember who you were before you started running from everything. how your zodiac sign affects the way you experience life emily heron “ our astrology is what makes up our personality traits, based upon when we were born and the karma into which we were born. how the new moon in aries will change each zodiac sign’s life horoscopes a.t. nunez “ taurus – this new moon might be a little challenging for you as it brings back moments where you might have felt like a failure. what saturn’s shift to aquarius means for each zodiac sign horoscopes a.t. nunez “ saturn enters the sign of aquarius on march 21st. this can bring a lot of gloom and doom to some people, but this is generally an exciting period of time as we see the end of one chapter with saturn in capricorn and get ready for the innovation that this aquarius transit offers to bring us all. more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.