u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition huffpost: it's personal at huffpost, we put people first. this means we believe that real life is news, and news is personal. regardless of who you are, where you live or what you believe, huffpost will help you navigate what's happening in the world and how it affects you. your needs, passions, challenges and curiosity are the heart of all of our journalism. if something matters to you, it matters to us. and we've redesigned our homepage for you: to showcase a wider variety of the stories we work hard to bring you every day. as always, you'll find the latest news: what's happening at the white house and beyond, as well as the big stories that shape our lives. that includes the quiet housing crisis and the struggle for voting rights, and battles over health care, inequality and gender discrimination. and of course, the history-making presidential race. but you'll also find a lot more stories about what's happening at your house: raising good kids, finding a therapist you can afford, managing your student debt. we know the day-to-day challenges of life are serious news too, and we are here to help. above all, you'll find stories about people. manar hussein, a muslim woman who stood up to those who tried to intimidate her for wearing a modest bathing suit, and jo etta m. harris, a black woman who had the police called on her while nursing her child in her car. or david ledbetter, the teenager who had the bright idea to register people to vote while they waited in line for a coveted popeye's chicken sandwich. people who, like you, want to make their lives and the world better. what unites our journalism is our dedication to serving you, and putting your life at the heart of our storytelling. welcome to the new huffpost, where every day, it's personal. lydia polgreen editor-in-chief, huffpost putting people first - in practice whether it's through our news and enterprise stories, our life coverage, or our first-person pieces, we cover what matters to you. read some of our stories below. people before power politics the human costs of kamala harris’ war on truancy the “progressive prosecutor” tried a new answer to students missing school. parents like cheree peoples paid the price. politics the super predators: when the man who abuses you is a cop all sarah loiselle wanted was a carefree summer. business how employers make it impossible for working women to breastfeed a huffpost investigation shows low-wage workers confined to bathrooms, can't get breaks and even lose their jobs. see more here to help women here’s what it’s like to see yourself in a deepfake porn video there's almost nothing you can do to get a fake sex tape of yourself taken offline. videos why is country music so white? exploring the complicated racial legacy of country music wellness you should see someone: a guide to doing therapy mental health issues — especially among young people — are on the rise. we want to normalize therapy and show you how. see more telling your story black voices existing while black these experiences are reminders that black people don't have the privilege to simply exist in peace. women when swimming as a muslim woman becomes a political act muslim women have been intimidated, harassed and kicked out for wearing modest bathing suits across america. huffpost personal i wish i’d had a ‘late-term abortion’ instead of having my daughter it would have been a kindness... and perhaps i could have been spared as well. see more talk to us if something matters to you, it matters to us. we now have more opportunities for you to weigh in on the topics you care about most. icon_commentscreated with sketch.comments icon_pollscreated with sketch.polls icon_forumscreated with sketch.forums join the huffpost community support huffpost by signing up for membership (free and paid options available) and participating in our journalism. we will be paying close attention to your feedback in order to produce more of the stories that matter to you. and we will be rolling out new ways for you to get involved. so please consider joining us and supporting real journalism. join huffpost newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.