engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login how well did the xperia 1’s super tall screen work for users? xiaomi's mi 10 lite offers 5g for €349 the morning after: reviewing the ipad pro (2020) latest in mobile how well did the xperia 1’s super tall screen work for users? 5h ago view xiaomi's mi 10 lite offers 5g for €349 5h ago view the morning after: reviewing the ipad pro (2020) 8h ago view google duo's group video limit rises to 12 people just at the right time 10h ago view image credit: at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time they're also giving customers extra data to help ease financial stress in the face of covid-19. mariella moon, @mariella_moon 19h ago comments 324 shares share tweet share sponsored links paula daniëlse via getty images at&t prepaid and cricket wireless have launched a $15 phone plan that's available for a limited time to both new and existing customers. it comes with 2gb of data, unlimited talk and text and no activation fee -- and it's clearly a direct competitor to t-mobile's $15 connect offering. it's worth noting, though, that t-mobile's plan can access the carrier's faster 5g network for customers who have 5g phones. however, it also suspends data access until the next billing cycle after the allotted 2gb of high-speed data gets used up. at&t's and cricket's new plan won't cut off users once they're done with the 2gb and will give them access to lower data speeds instead. the carriers said they're offering the option, because more and more people may be looking to reduce their spending due to loss of income caused by the coronavirus pandemic. as such, they're also offering other ways to help. they're both adding 10gb per month of data for 60 days to existing customers' capped phone plans. the offer also applies to all new cricket customers and all new at&t prepaid customers who activate capped plans before april 26th. in addition, they're giving customers with unlimited plans an additional 10gb of data for hotspot use per month for two billing cycles. the new plan and those offers are available starting on march 27th. in this article: att, coronavirus, covid-19, cricket, mobile, phone plan, thebuyersguide all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments 324 shares share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr