skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides category: attractions between two knees at the osf posted on jul 27, 2019 posted in: attractions, festivals, shows above photo: between two knees (2019): wotko long, rachel crowl, april ortiz, derek garza, shaun taylor-corbett. photo by jenny graham. minutes before the curtain rose on the night we saw between two knees, my husband rand received a text from our friend shaun, who is in the show. “sorry in advance,” shaun wrote,… keep reading cambodian rock band at the oregon shakespeare festival posted on mar 21, 2019 posted in: attractions, festivals note: this post contains some content that may be upsetting for certain readers – including mention of torture and the cambodian genocide. ————— my trip to cambodia feels so long ago – more than five years – that i have to remind myself that i was there. i look at the photos, and see myself… keep reading osf opening weekend 2018: sense & sensibility, destiny of desire, and henry v posted on apr 6, 2018 posted in: attractions, shows a strange thing happens when you become a theater nerd of the highest order – you develop a relationship not just with the characters within a play, or even the play itself, but – if circumstances allow – with the theater company as a whole. every season takes on its own personality, and you find… keep reading the liberty bell, philadelphia, pennsylvania posted on feb 5, 2018 posted in: attractions, city guide i have written about my love for philadelphia before, and it seems only right that today, the day after the eagles won the super bowl, that i would write about that town once again. i mean no disrespect to boston – a city that is near and dear to my heart, but i do mean a… keep reading the world’s oldest bookstore: livraria bertrand, lisbon, portugal posted on jan 3, 2018 posted in: attractions, city guide, local color lisbon is full of bookstores. they are everywhere, tucked into odd-shaped nooks so that they almost blend in with the facades. some were ancient, and so resembled museum exhibits that i simply stared at them from afar, not realizing that we could actually go inside. this was my initial reaction to livraria bertrand – the… keep reading the walker art center and sculpture garden, minneapolis, minnesota posted on dec 12, 2017 posted in: attractions, city guide, local color, museums i was in minnesota for only a moment – i’d been invited to speak at the rain taxi book festival on a panel with some delightful people, and despite the brevity of the trip, i still found myself with an afternoon free to roam the city. i asked the internet how i should spend my… keep reading bar luce: a wes anderson designed cafe in milan, italy posted on dec 8, 2017 posted in: attractions, city guide, food, local color, restaurants i am not the first to discover bar luce. designed by filmmaker wes anderson, it opened in 2015 and i did not learn of its existence until 2017, which is a lifetime in the world of the hip and the trendy. it sits on the outskirts of milan, crowded with flawlessly beautiful and bored looking… keep reading the monkeys of gibraltar posted on nov 7, 2017 posted in: attractions, city guide, local color note: we were in spain last spring, but work on the book meant that i haven’t gotten around to blogging about a lot of the places we visited. in keeping with the better-late-than-never mindset that characterizes much of my life, i’m finally writing about some of the strange and wonderful things we saw. if you want… keep reading i visited the birthplace of the atom bomb. los alamos national laboratory and the bradbury science museum, new mexico. posted on oct 3, 2017 posted in: attractions, museums rand’s work had brought us to new mexico for the very first time, and in a few weeks, we’d be in japan. the timing was unintentional but it felt like my path was already set. if i was going to walk through hiroshima, now long rebuilt, i couldn’t do so without considering the consequences of… keep reading posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 23 next page about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.