engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget audio-technica ath-cks5tw buy now login the buyer's guide find it, buy it and tell us how you really feel. all phones laptops gaming headphones home theater tablets more photography networking storage reviews / headphones audio-technica ath-cks5tw reviews / headphones audio-technica ath-cks5tw from $149+ $149 buy now share share 75 engadget score a good product that falls short of greatness. 75 a good product that falls short of greatness. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). engadget review for well under $200, you’ll get excellent battery life and decent sound on the ath-cks5tw. unfortunately, there are a lot of handy features that are missing, and some of them are pretty basic. the price and 15 hours of playback on the buds themselves is attractive on paper, but you have to be willing to overlook a few faults. read full review pros 15-hour battery life reasonably priced decent sound quality cons buds are huge update process is cumbersome limited on-board controls no eq/audio presets in the app lacks features like automatic pausing reviews 80 average critic score critic reviews 6 80 techradar audio-technica ath-cks5tw true wireless earbuds review the audio-technica ath-cks5tw ups the bass compared to the brand’s usual neutral sound, for a mix well suited to true-wireless earbuds. however, the fit may take some getting used to. read full review 80 headphone dungeon audio-technica ath-cks5tw true wireless review bass-heads will definitely enjoy the juicy lows that the cks5tw provide. and the sound isolation is great, making them a much better option for commuters that the airpods, at least in this respect. furthermore, the 45 hours of battery life is fantastic, considering that the $300 sennheiser momentum tw only offers 12. read full review see all critic reviews 0 average user score user reviews 0 see all reviews specs key specs type earbud drivers per ear 1 connections wireless type drivers per ear connections earbud 1 wireless write a review tip: log in before writing a review step 1: rate and comment on specific criteria sound quality 0 design and form factor 0 comfort 0 noise isolation 0 durability 0 step 2: write a detailed review tips: make sure to include your initial thoughts on using the product, any observations and potentially any issues you might have run into while using it. step 3: finalize your product rating and submit your review we've calculated your overall product rating based on the average of your criteria ratings above. you can adjust this rating by dragging this slider. overall rating 0 login and submit! 75 engadget score a good product that falls short of greatness. 75 a good product that falls short of greatness. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). see all scores scores engadget 75 critic 6 reviews 80 users not yet scored user reviews there are currently no user reviews associated with this product. that's okay though because you can add your own review and we'll feature it here. write a review the latest 12.20.19 16 75 75 audio-technica ath-cks5tw review: long battery life at a decent price if you’re worried about constantly having to recharge, these might be for you. by b. steele, 12.20.19 share 11.14.19 11.14.19 the best true wireless earbuds you can buy this holiday season we expect these to be popular stocking stuffers. by b. steele, 11.14.19 share view 11.11.19 11.11.19 the best audio gifts, from headphones to dj gear headphones, speakers and music-making gear for the audiophile on your list. by e. , 11.11.19 share view read more stories sponsored links about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr