engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget audio-technica ath-ck3tw buy now login the buyer's guide find it, buy it and tell us how you really feel. all phones laptops gaming headphones home theater tablets more photography networking storage reviews / headphones audio-technica ath-ck3tw reviews / headphones audio-technica ath-ck3tw from $119+ $119 buy now share share 78 engadget score a good product that falls short of greatness. 78 a good product that falls short of greatness. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). engadget review the ath-ck3tw are a great deal at $119, if you’re willing to overlook a few issues. they aren’t very comfortable and the touch controls can be frustrating to use. however, the sound quality is solid and the case holds five additional charges. for half the price of some of the competition, you can probably live with the caveats. read full review pros price automatic pausing five charges in case cons fit can be uncomfortable frustrating touch controls no customization ipx2 rating reviews 80 average critic score critic reviews 3 80 stuff budget buds with blinding bass solid audio quality and a two-figure price make these buds the perfect fit for those on a budget. read full review 80 tech advisor audio-technica ck3tw review if you want well-rounded wireless earbuds for an affordable price then the ck3tw (annoying model name aside) are a good choice. they sound good and even have automatic playback when you remove or replace them. however, a couple of downsides stop them scoring higher. read full review see all critic reviews 0 average user score user reviews 0 see all reviews specs key specs type earbud drivers per ear 1 connections wireless type drivers per ear connections earbud 1 wireless write a review tip: log in before writing a review step 1: rate and comment on specific criteria sound quality 0 design and form factor 0 comfort 0 noise isolation 0 durability 0 step 2: write a detailed review tips: make sure to include your initial thoughts on using the product, any observations and potentially any issues you might have run into while using it. step 3: finalize your product rating and submit your review we've calculated your overall product rating based on the average of your criteria ratings above. you can adjust this rating by dragging this slider. overall rating 0 login and submit! 78 engadget score a good product that falls short of greatness. 78 a good product that falls short of greatness. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). see all scores scores engadget 78 critic 3 reviews 80 users not yet scored user reviews there are currently no user reviews associated with this product. that's okay though because you can add your own review and we'll feature it here. write a review the latest 01.28.20 12 78 78 audio-technica ath-ck3tw review: decent, affordable true wireless earbuds however, there are some caveats. by b. steele, 01.28.20 share 09.08.19 09.08.19 audio-technica's $99 true wireless earbuds sound amazing and with six hours of battery life, you're not making many sacrifices. by b. steele, 09.08.19 share view read more stories sponsored links about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr