home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library degustabox food and drink product reviews prevnext august 2017 degustabox review leyla preston wed 11th oct 2017 3shares share tweet pin another great month of delicious edible goodies from degustabox, which features the following brands this month: refreshers softies orangina limited edition summer bottles seabrook crinkle cut variety pack tabasco green pepper sauce fruitypot jellysqueeze light bites popped chips maggi fusian® fiery sweet chilli & sticky hoisin duck noodles bahlsen pick up! black ‘n white twisted halo coconut water with ginger and vodka hellmann’s real mayonnaise cadbury curlywurly squirlies cadbury dairy milk big taste toffee whole nut here is the link to the full background of the degustabox and the service they offer: https://motherhooddiaries.com/degustabox-review-plus-competitiongiveaway-win-aprils-degustabox/ but, for a quick recap, degustabox is an online retail service that offers a monthly package full of nutritional goods for a monthly fee of £12.99. but lucky customers like yourself will receive a £7.00 discount when signing up for your first degustabox by inserting discount code bldeg15 at the checkout. products range from condiments to organic food and drink, packed with lots of information on the product and its manufacturer. you can sign up to receive a monthly degustabox here: http://bit.ly/dbhomepage. you can stay updated via degustabox’s social networks too: facebook – http://bit.ly/dbukfacebook twitter – http://bit.ly/dbuktwitter instagram – @degustabox_uk #degustabox_uk and, that’s not all! customers can receive a hefty 40% discount when signing up with their email address. one other thing. degustabox has recently introduced db discoveries to keep us in the loop with new, smaller brands that we may not have heard of, but are equally as delicious. we’ll keep you posted on these too, by marking a ‘*’ next to the brand’s name. so, let’s get started! table of contents reviewers: review: what’s in august 2017’s degustabox? check out motherhood diaries’ unboxing video below: products refreshers softies orangina limited edition summer bottles seabrook crinkle cut variety pack tabasco green pepper sauce fruitypot jellysqueeze light bites popped chips maggi® fusian® fiery sweet chilli & stick hoisin duck noodles bahlsen pick up! black ‘n white twisted halo coconut water with ginger and vodka cadbury curlywurly squirlies cadbury dairy milk big taste toffee whole nut what did i like most about august’s degustabox? rating: reviewers: tommy (daddy) leyla (mummy) aron (6 years old) aidan (5 years old) review: what’s in august 2017’s degustabox? check out motherhood diaries’ unboxing video below: products refreshers softies “whether you’re eight or eighty, refreshers softies are sure to put a smile on your face. as one of the nation’s favourite sweets, refreshers softies can be enjoyed by all ages and will bring about a sense of sharing and fun with a new, modern twist. be prepared to be transported back to more innocent times; reminding you of long mischief-filled summers and resurrecting memories of special moments in your youth. refreshers softies add a new dimension to your retro confectionery favourites – soft, fruity-flavoured and chewy, they’re a twist on the much loved refreshers sweets. (rrp £1.00 per bag, available now in asda and tesco). http://www.facebook.com/barrattsweets/ https://twitter.com/barrattsweets http://www.tangerineuk.net/ our opinion –. 1/5 – i love refreshers sweets, they were my favourite sweets as a child, so i thought i’d love these… but, i didn’t, i really didn’t. you can literally taste the chemicals in these softies and they do not taste like the regular sweets. please, just stick to the normal ones, they are much better! orangina limited edition summer bottles “orangina, with its unmistakable orange flavour, soft sparkle and real citrus pulp, makes the perfect summer drink. it is both delicious on it’s own with ice and a slice of orange, or as a mixer in mocktails and cocktails. https://en-gb.facebook.com/oranginauk/ https://twitter.com/oranginauk?lang=en http://www.instagram.com/oranginauk/ http://www.orangina.co.uk/“ our opinion – 4.5/5 – i thought the bottles were so cute, dressed in their little summer hot pants. and, we really enjoyed the citrusy flavour too, which had a nice carbonated zing to them. with ice, they’re delicious on a hot day, so definitely worth trying it out, even though the weather is a little colder now. seabrook crinkle cut variety pack “seabrook is the original crinkle cut crisp. the variety pack brings together the three most popular seabrook flavours – sea salted, sea salt & vinegar and cheese & onion. everyone has their favourite seabrook flavour…. what’s yours? http://www.facebook.com/seabrookcrisps/ https://twitter.com/seabrookcrisps http://www.seabrookcrisps.com“ our opinion – 4/5 – to be honest, i thought the sea salted version tasted exactly like the walkers ready salted crisps, which is a good thing, but my favourite was the sea salt & vinegar crisps which did pack a real punch but only in a good way. sadly, i didn’t get the chance to try the cheese & onion pack, but judging by the way my eldest was scoffing them down, i can imagine they tasted quite nice. i would have liked to see more packs of each version, though. tabasco green pepper sauce “tabasco® green sauce delivers great tangy flavour. it is made from mild green jalapeño peppers mixed with vinegar and salt. it’s a staple flavour for mexican food and also can be used in anything from seafood to dressings and fruit. a few dashes give a kick to margaritas and piña-coladas. https://www.facebook.com/tabascouk/ https://twitter.com/tabasco_uk?lang=en-gb https://www.instagram.com/tabasco_uk/ http://www.tabasco.com/ our opinion – 5/5 – i was quite apprehensive at trying this out because i know how hot the real tabasco sauce is. but, this green pepper sauce was delicious and so versatile, i added it to almost everything, including my pasta, rice, jacket potato and chips! definitely will be buying this again. fruitypot jellysqueeze “the fruitypot family of brands is a new and exciting range of fruit based products which offer a healthier snacking alternative for kids and adults alike. jellysqueeze is a truly innovative concept which introduces jelly to the next generation, available in strawberry, orange and apple and blackcurrant flavours. a fun squeezy jelly in a pouch, jellysqueeze is refreshing and re-sealable making it ideal to eat on the go or pop in a packed lunch. gluten and lactose free, suitable for vegans and vegetarians and schools compliant, jellysqueeze is great for kids of all ages to enjoy. jellysqueeze can be stored in the cupboard although we recommend that it’s best enjoyed straight from the fridge. * the apple & blackcurrant and the orange flavours of jellysqueeze were included in the degustabox. http://www.facebook.co.uk/jellysqueeze https://www.twitter.com/fruitypotfamily http://www.fruitypotfamily.co.uk“ our opinion – 3/5 – these fruitypots were nice, but they wouldn’t be something i would actively offer the kids. i still find jelly to be very chemically based and i’m trying to steer away from real processed desserts like jelly and more towards compotes and actual fruit desserts. so, although, they tasted pleasant and they are packaged to fit lunchboxes well, i’d rather serve my kids’ real apples, blackcurrants and oranges in their lunchboxes. light bites popped chips snack virtuously with light bites, the range of snacks all under 100 calories! light bites are a range of healthy snacks for when you’re looking for something light and tasty without the remorse – they’re an easy, uncomplicated choice. the range consists of gluten free and protein packed popped chips, freeze dried fruit chips and scrumptious bars enriched with superfoods such as goji berries, chia seeds and cacao nibs perfect for that mid-morning slump or evening snack. light bites popped chips are under 100 calories, gluten free, packed with fibre and protein, veggie friendly, free from artificial colours, preservatives, flavours and low in saturated fat. popped chips are spud free, msg and gm free too! available exclusively in superdrug stores and online. http://www.facebook.com/lightbitesuk http://www.instagram.com/lightbitesuk http://www.lightbites.co.uk“ our opinion – 4.5/5 – i do like these chickpea puffs, they pack great flavour and they’re ideal for carrying around in your bag if you’re feeling peckish. sadly the kids weren’t as keen as i was and i’d rather try and get them involved in these kinds of snacks than the fruitypots. but, at least i got to enjoy them without interruption. maggi® fusian® fiery sweet chilli & stick hoisin duck noodles “sticky hoisin duck noodles: rich sweet soy, oriental spice and hints of roasted duck with infused oil and veggies, create a noodles adventure in only four minutes. fiery sweet chilli noodles: spicy chilli and ginger with onion oil and veggies, create a fiery noodles adventure in only four minutes. http://www.facebook.com/maggifusianuki/ http://maggi.co.uk“ our opinion – 4.5/5 – i love sweet chilli and i love hoisin duck, so it was a no-brainer that i was going to love these noodles. the fiery sweet chilli really does pack a chilli punch so beware! i especially liked the fact that there were three different sachets in the pack, which added to the flavour; veg, oil and herbs/spices. not like the regular pot noodles that you get that includes one pack of powder. instead you get a real textured and flavoured snack meal and they taste great with buttered toast. bahlsen pick up! black ‘n white “pick up! black ‘n white is a delicious white chocolate bar sandwiched between two crisp chocolate flavour biscuits. they are individually wrapped, locking in the freshness and perfect for on the go occasions and lunchboxes. https://www.facebook.com/pickupuk/ https://twitter.com/bahlsenpickup https://www.instagram.com/bahlsen_uk/ http://bahlsen.co.uk/our-biscuits/pick-up/“ our opinion – 4.5/5 – only 5 in a pack, bahlsen?? gosh, these were dangerous and very moreish! we all unanimously loved these new bahlsen style chocolate snacks, with a helping of white chocolate sandwiched between crispy chocolate biscuits. they were nice and large, as well as individually wrapped too, so great for on-the-go occasions – not that we travelled far before these were scoffed… twisted halo coconut water with ginger and vodka “twisted halo is on a mission to create the most transparent and authentic low-calorie alcoholic beverage brand, whilst never compromising on taste or quality. the idea is simple; we blend unique, sophisticated flavour combinations with natural ingredients. we are 100% naturally flavoured and free of added sugar or sweeteners. we are against being bland and sugary, and want to inject some fun back into the market! visit www.twistedhalodrinks.com to find your nearest stockist. https://www.facebook.com/twistedhalouk/ https://twitter.com/twistedhalouk https://www.instagram.com/twistedhalouk/ http://www.twistedhalodrinks.com our opinion – 3.5/5 – hubby helped himself to this alcoholic drink and advised me that the drink was quite bitter but ok. i think i probably would have preferred the natural taste of coconut water and ginger and given it higher marks, so i’m assuming hubby thought this was just average. cadbury curlywurly squirlies bitesize chewy caramel pieces covered in cadbury milk chocolate! a family favourite, now available in a shareable bag! https://www.facebook.com/cadburyuk/ https://twitter.com/cadburyuk http://www.instagram.com/cadburyuk/ http://www.cadbury.co.uk our opinion – 4/5 – these cadbury curly-wurlies took me back to my childhood when they came in just one long packaged bar. thankfully, they’re shareable in this new bag and we all got to enjoy the deliciousness of the caramel chews. be careful though, they’ll take your teeth right off! cadbury dairy milk big taste toffee whole nut “taste the big sensation wherever you are with cadbury dairy milk big taste toffee whole nut now available in a convenient on-the-go format! https://www.facebook.com/cadburyuk/ https://twitter.com/cadburyuk http://www.instagram.com/cadburyuk/ http://www.cadbury.co.uk“ our opinion – 5/5 – it’s just like degustabox to go and add a naughty little bar in the box that isn’t shareable. oh my goodness, this big taste bar was delicious, so delicious that i was salivating for another bar as soon as i finished the first. i could have shared, but i didn’t and i’m sorry, not sorry, that i didn’t. deliciously chewy, crunchy and nutty – my new favourite cadbury’s bar. right, off to the shops to buy in bulk! what did i like most about august’s degustabox? i don’t want to do it because of my preaching about sugar, but it has to be the cadbury dairy milk big taste toffee, which must be made by the devil because it is just tooo good. rating: – 4 out of 5 – a great box overall with the naughtiest things in the box being the tastiest (apart from the refreshers softies, sorry!) perhaps, sneak in another cadbury dairy milk big taste bar so i can get my fix? oh, and the tabasco green pepper sauce is now a new staple in our home, so thanks for the heads up degustabox! never miss a new post! don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want to read! follow motherhood diaries on facebook (facebook recipes page), twitter, pinterest, instagram, google+ and linkedin if you’d like to share your pregnancy or parenting story, then please do share your story here. don’t forget to read our ad policy leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:bahlsencadburydegustaboxfood boxfood deliveryfruitypothellmann'slight bitesmaggi fusianmd reviewsmddegustaboxoranginarefreshersseabrooktabascotwisted halo related posts bengal chicken curry january 2019 degustabox review august 2014 – degustabox product r... top 10 best educational christmas toys a... july 2014 – degustabox product rev... march 2015 – degustabox product re... february 2019 degustabox review – degust... june 2015 – picnic degustabox product re... april 2014 – degustabox product re... may 2019 brunch and afternoon tea degust... june 2019 summer and bbq degusta box rev... july summer 2017 degustabox review november 2017 degustabox review january healthy box 2015 – degusta... february 2020 degusta box review – easte... december 2018 degustabox review january 2016 – degustabox product ... may 2014 – degustabox product revi... september 2015 – degustabox produc... mini face paints review – snazaroo weeke... november 2016 (christmas) degustabox rev... june 2017 bbq degustabox review march 2016 – degustabox product re... april 2017 degustabox review may 2016 – degustabox food box – product... january 2018 degustabox review chocolate lemon mousse with a blackberry... october 2017 degustabox review degustabox review plus competition/givea... april 2019 ‘best of british’ degusta box... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 3shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok