skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow author suzanne scacca 58 articles suzanne scacca is a former wordpress implementer, trainer and agency manager who now works as a freelance copywriter. she specializes in crafting marketing, web design, wordpress and millennial-related content for a variety of publications. find suzanne elsewhere: twitter website suzanne scacca wrote how to increase mobile conversions with category page design 9 min read no meows just yet march 26, 2020 — recent research has found that e-commerce category pages have higher click-through rates in search than individual category pages. so, if your e-commerce site is struggling to attract shoppers and convert them, your category pages (specifically, those on mobile) might be in … read more… suzanne scacca wrote how indigo.design usability testing takes the guesswork out of web design 12 min read no meows just yet march 17, 2020 — this article explains the process of usability testing: what it is, when you should use it and how to generate data-backed insights while developing your website using indigo.design. read more… suzanne scacca wrote where does seo belong in your web design process? 10 min read no meows just yet february 28, 2020 — the word “seo” holds a lot of weight. we know how critical it is to the success of a website and, yet, it often becomes one of those things that’s left until the very end of a web design project to deal with. read more… suzanne scacca wrote how to make cross-browser testing more efficient with lambdatest 11 min read no meows just yet february 18, 2020 — whether you’re building a new site or you’re managing a live one, you can’t afford to make any changes without a process for cross-browser testing. read more… suzanne scacca wrote what to do if people hate your brand mascot 17 min read no meows just yet february 17, 2020 — does your website have a mascot that the audience isn’t responding well to or that outright hates it? or maybe your new client has brought along a mascot that you’re unsure about? if a mascot’s design or messaging isn’t on point with an audience, there’s no sense in keeping … read more… suzanne scacca wrote how to book more appointments and events with a wordpress booking plugin 13 min read no meows just yet february 11, 2020 — by using the amelia booking plugin for wordpress, you can create booking widgets that collect more appointments (and revenue) for your clients. this article explains how. read more… suzanne scacca wrote how to design powerful narratives on mobile 16 min read no meows just yet january 27, 2020 — want to build a website or pwa that attracts a large audience and then converts as much of that audience into paying customers as possible? if that’s the case, what you need to do is use storytelling in your design. read more… suzanne scacca wrote how to decide which pwa elements should stick 12 min read no meows just yet january 2, 2020 — are you using sticky elements on your mobile website or pwa? if so, take a moment and ask yourself this question: do you have anything in them besides your logo, hamburger menu or search bar? read more… suzanne scacca wrote 5 things to stop doing in mobile app design 17 min read no meows just yet december 30, 2019 — have you ever looked at the design techniques and elements you use to build mobile apps and evaluated whether or not they’re still useful or relevant? if you haven’t done this in a while (or ever), stop what you’re doing and read this. we’re going to look at the 5 things … read more… suzanne scacca wrote should your portfolio site be a pwa? 10 min read no meows just yet december 12, 2019 — you spend so much time focused on other people’s websites that it’s easy to put yours on the backburner and tell yourself, “i’ll fix it up someday soon.” but do you really want to wait to improve your professional portfolio site? read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top