skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow author paul hanaoka 3 articles paul hanaoka is a design manager at liferay, based in the suburbs of los angeles, and serving the north american teams. his passion is at the intersection of design and technology; unifying and streamlining processes, tools, and systems to help everyone design more effectively. find paul elsewhere: website twitter liferay.design unsplash paul hanaoka wrote how should designers learn to code? git, html/css, engineering principles (part 2) 20 min read no meows just yet march 25, 2020 — in part 1, paul explained the basics of the terminal, shared a few productivity hacks to get you started, and how to choose a code editor. in this part, he’ll continue with the topics of version control (git), html and css, semantic code, and a brief introduction to some key … read more… paul hanaoka wrote how should designers learn to code? the terminal and text editors (part 1) 13 min read no meows just yet march 18, 2020 — for the purpose of this two-part series of articles, we’re going to assume the answer for “should designers code?” is “it depends.” in this first part of the series, we’ll take a look at getting comfortable with the command line and text editors. read more… paul hanaoka wrote design at scale: one year with figma 15 min read no meows just yet april 15, 2019 — whether you’re a designer or developer, it can be challenging to stay current in this fast-paced world where it feels like new tools are product hunted on a weekly basis. if you’re working in a larger team, and especially if you’re working in an enterprise or b2b … read more… browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top