skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow author rachel andrew 89 articles rachel andrew is not only editor in chief of smashing magazine, but also a web developer, writer and speaker. she is the author of a number of books, including the new css layout. she is one of the people behind the content management system, perch, and writes about business and technology on her own site at rachelandrew.co.uk. find rachel elsewhere: twitter website rachel andrew wrote announcing smashing online workshops 3 min read no meows just yet march 23, 2020 — with so many people — including our workshop leaders — working from home, we thought we would bring our smashing workshops from our home offices to yours. read more… rachel andrew wrote rescheduling smashingconf sf and looking out for each other 5 min read no meows just yet march 12, 2020 — we are sad to have to reschedule smashingconf sf, however we are working to find ways to be with our community virtually until we can all meet up again. read more… rachel andrew wrote why are we talking about css4? 14 min read no meows just yet march 4, 2020 — around the web and within the css working group, there has been some discussion about whether we should specify a version of css — perhaps naming it css4. in this article, rachel andrew rounds up some of the pros and cons of doing so, and asks for your feedback on the … read more… rachel andrew wrote understanding css grid: grid template areas 11 min read no meows just yet february 12, 2020 — in a new series, rachel andrew breaks down the css grid layout specification. this time, we take a look at how to use grid-template-areas to place items. read more… rachel andrew wrote an interview with rémi parmentier: a smashingconf austin speaker 1 min read no meows just yet february 10, 2020 — smashingconf is coming to austin, and in this post, we bring you an interview with one of our speakers, rémi parmentier, who will be presenting on html email and aiming to solve all of your email creation woes. read more… rachel andrew wrote an interview with zach leatherman: a smashingconf austin speaker 2 min read no meows just yet february 3, 2020 — smashingconf is coming to austin, and in this post, we bring you an interview with one of our speakers, zach leatherman, who will be talking about type and font performance. read more… rachel andrew wrote introducing our new smashingconf city of austin 7 min read no meows just yet january 21, 2020 — smashingconf is coming to austin! in this post, rachel andrew gives you a rundown of what you can expect and shares a video interview with miriam suzanne who will be sharing the stage with the rest of the brilliant smashingconf austin speakers! read more… rachel andrew wrote understanding css grid: grid lines 11 min read no meows just yet january 10, 2020 — in a new series, rachel andrew breaks down the css grid layout specification. this time, we take a look at how to use the grid lines to place items. read more… rachel andrew wrote understanding css grid: creating a grid container 14 min read no meows just yet january 3, 2020 — in a new series, rachel andrew breaks down the css grid layout specification. this time, we take a detailed look at what happens when you create a grid container and the various properties that can be applied to the container to shape your grid. read more… rachel andrew wrote 2019: a smashing year in review 14 min read no meows just yet december 31, 2019 — the smashing team looks back at 2019. it’s been a busy year with new team members, four conferences, two books, a print magazine, and many, many articles. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top