skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow author andrew clarke 13 articles andy clarke is a well-known web designer, design consultant, and mentor. he’s been called plenty of things since he started working on the web. his ego likes terms such as “ambassador for css,” “industry prophet,” and “inspiring,” but he’s most proud that jeffrey zeldman once called him a “triple-talented bastard.” with his wife sue, andy founded stuff & nonsense in 1998, where they’ve helped companies around the world to improve their designs by providing consulting and design expertise. find andrew elsewhere: twitter website andrew clarke wrote inspired design decisions with otto storch: when idea, copy, art and typography became inseparable 24 min read no meows just yet march 23, 2020 — in this seventh instalment of inspired design decisions, andy clarke will explore how american art director and graphic designer otto storch inspires his designs for the web. read more… andrew clarke wrote inspired design decisions: neville brody design cannot remain neutral 30 min read no meows just yet march 2, 2020 — how do we use blend modes to add depth to our designs, vertical text for impact and clipping paths to bring in character and energy to a design? in this article, we’ll explore just that. read more… andrew clarke wrote inspired design decisions: bea feitler, an unstoppable creative force 30 min read no meows just yet october 3, 2019 — in this fifth installment of inspired design decisions, andy clarke will teach you about bea feitler, who directed harper’s bazaar throughout the 1960s and has been described as “the pioneering female art director you’ve never heard of.” andy will teach you about feitler’s … read more… andrew clarke wrote inspired design decisions: alexey brodovitch 25 min read no meows just yet september 5, 2019 — in this fourth instalment of inspired design decisions, andy clarke will teach you how scattering images will fill your designs with movement. learn how to mirror pictures and text, and how to carve text into shapes using css shapes. read more… andrew clarke wrote inspired design decisions: ernest journal 15 min read no meows just yet august 8, 2019 — in this third instalment of inspired design decisions, andy clarke will teach you how to use frameworks to create layouts as engaging as in the well-known ernest journal. all it takes is an understanding of layout design and imagination. read more… andrew clarke wrote inspired design decisions: pressing matters 20 min read no meows just yet july 11, 2019 — in this second installment of inspired design decisions, andy clarke will teach you how to expand your repertoire of layouts by combining more than one grid into a compound grid. this article will change the way you think about designing with grids. read more… andrew clarke wrote inspired design decisions: avaunt magazine 22 min read no meows just yet june 13, 2019 — this is the first edition of inspired design decisions in which andy clarke explains how to design and implement skinny columns using meaningful markup and efficient css. read more… andrew clarke wrote art direction for the web using css shapes 12 min read no meows just yet april 11, 2019 — last year, rachel andrew wrote “take a new look at css shapes” where she reintroduced readers to the basics of using css shapes. in this new tutorial, andy clarke expands on the topic of “art direction for the web” with css shapes to create exciting and inspired new design … read more… andrew clarke wrote art directing for the web with css grid template areas 18 min read no meows just yet april 9, 2018 — (this article is kindly sponsored by coffeecup software.) if you’re at all serious about web design or development, you need to be serious about learning and using css grid, too. andrew clarke explains how. read more… andrew clarke wrote a modern designer's canvas 31 min read no meows just yet march 25, 2014 — when i gave this talk a title, i called it “a modern designer’s canvas,” because originally i was going to talk about the tools and processes that i use when i’m designing. but being a good designer or developer is about so much more than knowing how to use tools. it’s also … read more… 1 2 next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top