skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow author chidi orji 2 articles awesome frontend developer who loves everything coding. i’m a lover of choral music and i’m working to make it more accessible to the world, one upload at a time at https://www.choralcentral.net/ find chidi elsewhere: twitter github linkedin chidi orji wrote implementing infinite scroll and image lazy loading in react 15 min read no meows just yet march 16, 2020 — in this tutorial, we’re going to learn how to use the html intersection observer api to implement infinite scrolling and image lazy loading in a react functional component. in the process, we’ll learn how to use some of react’s hooks and how to create custom hooks. read more… chidi orji wrote how to use the html drag-and-drop api in react 9 min read no meows just yet february 19, 2020 — in this tutorial, we’ll learn about the html drag-and-drop api and how to use the usereducer hook for managing state in a react functional component. read more… browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top