skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow author iris lješnjanin 12 articles juggling between three languages on a daily basis, iris is known for her love of linguistics, arts, web design and typography, as well as her goldmine of animated gifs for literally every occasion. as senior editor at the one and only @smashingmag, she spends most of her time tenderly sifting through articles in search of golden thoughts and ideas that will bring readers to think, wonder, enjoy and learn something new. find iris elsewhere: twitter linkedin iris lješnjanin wrote stay calm and read smashing magazine 12 min read no meows just yet march 13, 2020 — it’s that time of the month! join us as we share the latest news and highlight the things we’ve been working on and have also enjoyed reading over the past month. read more… iris lješnjanin wrote designing ethically, optimizing videos, and shining the spotlight on our smashingconf speakers 10 min read no meows just yet february 14, 2020 — it’s nice to have an overview of the most important things in one place, but do feel free to follow us on social media! we like helping you stay on top of things and making life just a little bit easier. read more… iris lješnjanin wrote all things smashing: monthly update 8 min read no meows just yet january 17, 2020 — with so much going on, we’ve made it our mission to help you stay on top of things. of course, you can follow us on social media and subscribe to our rss feed, but it’s nice to have an overview of the most important things in one place. read more… iris lješnjanin wrote smashing monthly roundup: what’s new? 9 min read no meows just yet december 20, 2019 — and so it’s time for another monthly update! join us as we share the latest news and highlight the things we have enjoyed reading over the past month. read more… iris lješnjanin wrote smashing monthly roundup: community resources and favorite posts 11 min read no meows just yet november 15, 2019 — in the fast-paced industry that designers and developers work in, it’s important to stay up to date as much as possible. don’t worry, we’ve got your back with monthly updates to help you stay on top of things. read more… iris lješnjanin wrote smashing monthly roundup: community resources and favorite posts 14 min read no meows just yet october 18, 2019 — in the fast-paced industry that designers and developers work in, it’s important to stay up to date as much as possible. don’t worry, we’ve got your back with monthly updates to help you stay on top of things. read more… iris lješnjanin wrote free icon set: happy 4th of july (20 icons, png, eps, ai, svg) 2 min read no meows just yet june 21, 2017 — every once in a while, we publish freebies related to different occasions and themes. today, we’d like to share an icon set dedicated to a well-known upcoming american holiday. read more… iris lješnjanin wrote 30 adventurous space to earth icons [freebie] 2 min read no meows just yet february 17, 2017 — have you ever dreamt of exploring the deep sea and getting up close to its fascinating, weird creatures? or maybe you’ve dreamt of boarding a spacecraft to experience the beauty of our planet from above? the desire to leave the beaten tracks and explore unfamiliar … read more… iris lješnjanin wrote 30 sugar-sweet valentine's day icons [freebie] 2 min read no meows just yet january 27, 2017 — so, you want to give your projects some extra love? with valentine’s day coming up soon, we’ve got a fresh new set that consists of a delicious selection — just like a good box of chocolates. take a peek, and you’ll find icons especially tailored to … read more… iris lješnjanin wrote best of halloween: all things spooky 7 min read no meows just yet october 18, 2016 — whether or not you celebrate halloween, there is something magical about that special spooky day, surrounded by mystery, horror, scare and trick-or-treat candies for kids and adults alike. in this post, we celebrate the creative side of halloween with those of you who are … read more… 1 2 next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top