 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog how to become an authority blogger in your niche written by: anya skrba (published on: june 16th, 2017 last updated: may 10th, 2019) posted in: blogging 1 comment written by anya skrba there are so many different bloggers out there, some looking to express themselves and provide inspiring advice to those who need it, others looking to turn their blogs into something more, becoming real authority bloggers esteemed in their industry and reaching wild success. however, a great number of them just have no idea how to transform themselves from amateurs to pros. they want to establish themselves as an authority in their niche, but just can’t seem to raise their voice and get heard. it’s a very noisy world so, if you want to have a loud voice, you need to have authority. without it, you just end up whispering and no one can really hear what you have to say. when you have authority, you have credibility as well, and you easily attract attention, standing out from the crowd and inspiring loyalty. how can you accomplish that? how can you become an authority blogger in your niche? there’s certainly no secret formula you can use to reach the success you want overnight, but there are several tried-and-true techniques that can definitely help you on your way to becoming a pro blogger, so read on to check them out. 8 steps to become an authority blogger in your niche establishing trust in order for your blog to get more attention, you need to build trust with your readers. building trust inspires loyalty and helps you truly stand out from thousands of bloggers out there. establishing trust means providing your audience with relevant and useful information that gives them real value. content is king, as you may have heard a thousand times because it is exactly what helps people learn more about you and about what you have to offer. if you consistently provide high-quality content that helps your target readers solve their problems, they will see you as a credible and trustworthy source of information. you will become their go-to resource whenever they need something only you can provide. you may think that this is easier said than done but, if you research your target audience and learn more about their interests and preferences, you will know exactly what direction to take when creating your content, and you will be able to craft compelling blog posts that will satisfy every reader’s need. providing value on a regular basis is exactly what will help you establish trust with your readers and set you on the right path to becoming an authority blogger. networking networking is one of the ultimate keys to success in the blogosphere. there are many authority bloggers who have the attention of millions of people and, if you connect with them and become a part of their inner circle, you will get the amazing opportunity to stand out in the vast sea of bloggers. networking with other bloggers and forming relationships with them can open a lot of doors for you and enable you to reach a substantial number of new readers. people who follow them really trust them so, if they put in a good word for you and recommend your blog, their followers will see you as a trustworthy source as well. you will no longer be just another blogger trying to make it out there because you will be playing with the big dogs, eventually becoming one yourself. if you attend blogging conferences, you will get a chance to meet a number of authority bloggers in your niche. you can create connections that may lead to years of fruitful collaborations and even long-lasting partnerships. you can even be interviewed and invited to attend some other conferences and events, maybe even asked to speak at an event. a lot of exciting stuff can happen, which is exactly why networking is one of the best things that can happen to a blogger. one of the most important things you should do when it comes to networking is to enter the world of guest blogging. it will help you create invaluable connections and reach out to quite a lot more readers. you will gain greater exposure and position yourself as an authority in your field. professional writing methods we’re back at the question of content, but its importance really cannot be stressed enough. if you are to become a successful blogger, you need to paint the portrait of a true professional. your writing style needs to show that you are someone who knows the industry in and out, and who knows exactly what it takes for your readers’ problems to be solved. adding a personal touch and a humorous remark when appropriate is definitely not unprofessional. in fact, personalized content is what people enjoy and want to read. therefore, feel free to loosen up and show people who you really are. it is exactly what will help you connect with them better and engage them in your blog. however, what will help you establish authority the most is good research, as well as crediting the sources you use, instead of only presenting them as your own opinions. never steal other people’s content, but rather cite them if you want to use their posts to make a point. most importantly, make sure that your grammar is flawless because it will help you become more credible. collaboration collaborating with other bloggers is always a good choice. however, don’t confuse collaboration with networking. while networking is all about making new connections and forming relationships with other bloggers, collaboration is the result of networking. therefore, once you establish strong connections, make sure you work on collaborating with authority bloggers, as that will help you go way beyond your potential. when you join forces with like-minded people, you can achieve so much more than if you were working on your own. apart from guest posting, you can work together on various group projects, such as writing an ebook, for instance, for which several bloggers will make equal contributions. having an ongoing collaboration with influential bloggers can really go a long way, so you should definitely use it to its full potential. owning up to your mistakes and correcting your work there are a lot of blogging mistakes that you should avoid but, if you do make a mistake on your blogging journey, it’s certainly not the end of the world. although, if you continuously make mistakes, you need to stop and think about what you can do to improve your blog, lest you risk falling into a rabbit hole from which you can’t find your way out. nevertheless, if you make a mistake, you need to own up to it. whether it’s something minor as a typo or you happen to have provided false information because of poor research, you need to admit you were wrong and correct your work. if you don’t hide behind your own mistakes or even blame them on someone else, you will establish more trust. you are a human, after all, and mistakes are in your nature, but owning up to them takes courage and self-awareness, and it is exactly what will make your followers respect you more. finding a unique edge providing something unique that your readers cannot find anywhere else is precisely what will differentiate you from other bloggers in your niche and help you stand out. finding a unique edge will enable you to provide your readers with something new and fresh that will truly make a difference. how many times have you come across a new blog post that you could swear you have already read before? you know it’s not plagiarized, but it just doesn’t seem to provide anything that hasn’t already been said a thousand times. people don’t want to waste time reading something they already know. they want something new that can give them value and benefit their lives. don’t drown in the sea of bloggers who spin the same kind of content over and over again, but instead make your own twist and take a different approach. take a look at the topics you tackle from a whole new perspective, and you will certainly light your way towards truly becoming an authority blogger in your niche. communicate like a professional if you want authority, you need to communicate like a professional. avoid clichés and stay away from jargon, but make sure you write as you speak. use a friendly and conversational tone of voice, because you are speaking to an audience, not writing a school essay. however, it’s important to hit that sweet spot between friendly communication and a professional one. the former is vital for engaging and connecting with your readers, but the latter is crucial for establishing trust and credibility and, ultimately, authority. one of the best pieces of advice you can get is to act like you have authority, even if you don’t have it quite yet. this means that you need to showcase confidence and firmly stand behind every single word you write. it will help you truly communicate like a professional and before you know it, your readers will recognize you as an authority blogger who knows how to make their lives better. don’t be tacky this is one of the worse mistakes you can make as a blogger. if you are tacky, the only thing you will achieve is leaving a bad taste in the mouths of your readers, not to mention other bloggers in your niche. this is exactly the same as being tacky in your everyday life – no one likes it. for instance, don’t promote yourself on other people’s blogs without previous consent or even steal their content or images they have posted. this is a big fat no, and you will definitely not earn any respect. it is hugely unprofessional and any kind of tackiness is a sure way to failure. conclusion if you want to become an authority blogger in your niche, make sure you follow these tips, as they will certainly help you pave the way to quickly going from amateur to pro. you need to invest a lot of effort into building your way to success, but these success-generating ways are excellent shortcuts that you should take, as they will definitely help you raise your voice and stand out in the blogging world. an additional resource we recommend you to read – if you want to become recognized in your professional life and influence others, is a book named ‘known’ written by mark w. schaefer, a powerful influencer, and a great marketer. you can check it out here. this entry was posted in blogging. bookmark the permalink. additional reading why do people blog? 6 steps to discovering the best blog name ideas why do people blog? the 15 benefits of blogging what is blog marketing? how to find a niche for your blog (step-by-step guide) start your own blog this guide is an introduction to mastering the art of blogging. it provides easy to follow steps to start, maintain, and grow your blog. read the guide « previous what is a blog post? – the perfect structure next » how to choose what to blog about (with examples of viral headlines) one comment on “how to become an authority blogger in your niche” pingback: how to make your blog posts more relatable and conversational | rainmaker collective leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog categories blogging wordpress interviews search how to start a blog the beginner's guide 2020 free guide + ebook learn blogging become a successful blogger learn wordpress understand the best practices blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.