automattic home about us news work with us home we are passionate about making the web a better place. wordpress.com your blog or website has a (free!) home on the web. your story, your way. tumblr where your interests connect you to your people one post at a time. woocommerce selling online? woo! hang your digital shingle with this free plugin. jetpack stats, backups, speed, power: the first plugin your site needs has it all built in. wp vip time, fortune, ted, quartz. big? the bigger the better. we handle them all. vaultpress your site, safe and sound. auto-backups and scanning. always on the job. akismet did someone say spam? akismet filters it out. nothing to see here. longreads great storytelling, long enough to dig into. find it and share it. simplenote synchronization. now your notes are everywhere, on every device. crowdsignal opinions! we all have them. collect your readers’ with polls and surveys. happy tools distributed teams are happier with our tools. less friction, more time! gravatar global avatar — “gravatar,” get it? one pic for all your profiles. we also contribute to a number of non-profit and open source projects, like: wordpress.org from many, one tool. find strength in community for a better web. wp for ios updates on the go? your site’s everywhere you are with the iphone app. wp for android same goes for android! no matter your devices, there’s an app for you. p2 theme collaborating? never send email again. this will change your life. buddypress without connections, there’s no such thing as a web. make your site social. bbpress blogs sometimes restrain community discussion. forums, the new black. wordcamp us wordpress fans, unite! come out from behind your screens, connect, and celebrate. wp job manager need to make a hire? put your site to work for you. online job listings! we don’t make software for free, we make it for freedom. “we are much better at writing code than haiku.” — matt mullenweg, founder of automattic inspired by you striving to create good nothing* is perfect. * including this. contact us diversity press privacy policy home about us news work with us © automattic inc., purveyors of fine blogging and site-building services since 2005. thank you for your time.