avocadu healthy from the inside out blog gut-14 probiotics resources about login start my 21-day challenge! weight loss yoga healthy living recipes supplements 21-day challenge yoga fat loss bible you are here: home / disclaimer disclaimer medical and general disclaimer avocadu.com is committed to providing information on natural and alternative health, but is not written by health care professionals. all material provided at avocadu.com is for informational purposes only, and is not to be taken as medical advice or recommendation. any health concern or condition should be addressed by a doctor or other appropriate health care professional. the information and opinions found on this website are written based on the best data available at the time of writing, and are believed to be accurate according to the best discernment of the authors. those who do not seek council from the appropriate health care authority assume the liability of any injury which may occur. additionally, the opinions expressed at avocadu.com do not represent the views of each and every author or contributor to avocadu.com. the publisher of this site is not responsible for any errors or omissions in any content herein. affiliate disclaimer links on this website may lead you to a product or service that provides an affiliate commission to the owners of this site should you make a purchase. in no way does any affiliate relationship ever factor into a recommendation, or alter the integrity of the information we provide. please note that we have not been given any free products, services, or anything else by these companies in exchange for mentioning them on the site. the only consideration is in the form of affiliate commissions. this post may contain affiliate links. please read our disclosure for more info. copyright © 2020 · disclaimer · privacy policy · comment policy · terms & conditions · contact · the new grind llc dba avocadu.com is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com.