avocadu healthy from the inside out blog gut-14 probiotics resources about login start my 21-day challenge! weight loss yoga healthy living recipes supplements 21-day challenge yoga fat loss bible you are here: home / comment policy comment policy we absolutely love and encourage comments from our readers! we love to receive the feedback and hear your thoughts about our content. we want all of our readers to grow in this community just as we do, and because of that, we do have some community guidelines regarding comments. note that all comments are subject to the following disclaimers and policies of this website: disclaimer policy, privacy policy, and terms and conditions. community guidelines any comments that are overly negative, disrespectful, or offensive will be deleted. comments that don’t contribute to the conversation, are self-promotional, contain affiliate links, or are intended for back-link purposes will be deleted and the author will be blocked from future commenting. please use your real first name and email address when commenting. if you are deliberately using your business name and/or business email, we will consider it self-promotion and remove your comment. please do not link your business name or blog anywhere in the comment section unless it directly relates to the comment or conversation taking place. otherwise, it will be considered self-promotional and marked as spam. many comments with links go directly to the spam folder for this reason. before asking a question, please read over prior comments in the conversation to see if your question has already been answered. if it has, your question will likely not be answered. in accordance with the terms and conditions and privacy policy, please assume that your comment on avocadu.com is being posted publicly. by posting a comment on this website or in any associated web forums or community groups, you are giving avocadu the exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free, sub-licensable and transferable license to use, reproduce, distribute, prepare derivative works of, display, perform, and otherwise use your comment in any way that we see fit. the following applies to all comments posted on avocadu.com: all rights reserved: we reserve the right to edit, delete, move, or mark as spam any and all comments. we also reserve the right to block access via ip address to anyone or group from commenting, subscribing to, and from accessing avocadu.com for violation of this comment policy. links: comments containing links are automatically held in moderation. any link included in a comment which is blatantly self-promotional without genuinely contributing to the conversation will be marked as spam and the comment immediately deleted. repeated attempts will cause the user email and ip address to be blacklisted from commenting further. links that are relevant and contribute to the conversation within the comments of the blog post may be allowed, but if in doubt, please leave it out. copyright/plagiarism: if notice is received that a comment contains proprietary, copyrighted or plagiarized information, the offending comment will be deleted and the commenter blocked from further commenting ability. email: an authentic, verified, email address is required for commenting and comment subscriptions. personal email addresses are never published on the blog nor shared with any 3rd party. your email address may be used by the blog owner (us) to privately contact you. by commenting on this blog, you are agreeing that we have the right to contact you via email in response to your comment, and for informational and promotional purposes. you can unsubscribe from blog comment notifications and email correspondence at any time. privacy: we take your privacy very seriously. comments and messages containing email addresses, physical mail addresses, phone numbers, and any private or personal information will be edited or deleted to protect the privacy of the affected party. to prevent such editing or deletion, never share private information within avocadu.com blog comments or social media forums. please read the privacy policy for more information. respect: comments which include offensive or inappropriate language, or considered by the blog owner (us) to be rude and offensive, will be deleted and the commenter banned from future use. you may question or argue the content in a constructive nature, but you may not post disrespectful comments towards the author(s) or other commenters. relevance: please keep all comments on-topic and relevant to the post being read. comments that are an obvious attempt at promotional purposes, intended to gain traffic, backlinks, brand exposure, or increased personal site traffic will be deleted and the commenter will be blocked from further avocadu.com interaction. if you leave a comment or question that is unrelated to the post topic, it will likely go unanswered. if you have a question about a specific health topic, please search for it using the provided search box. or you can suggest a topic for a future blog post using the contact form. spam: any comment deemed as spam will be deleted and marked as comment spam. commenters who repeatedly post spam will be blacklisted from commenting in the future, and their ip address blocked from accessing avocadu.com. liability: all comments within this blog are the responsibility of the individual commenter. by submitting a comment on avocadu.com, you agree that the comment content is your own, and to hold this site, the new grind, llc, and all post authors and commenters harmless. gravatar: for easiest commenting, please consider signing up for a gravatar (you can do that by clicking here). this will allow your comment to be approved faster, and allow your picture to automatically display next to your comment. what to do if your comment does not appear: please be patient. all comments are moderated and are not approved right away. please do not submit the same comment twice unless you think your original comment was not submitted correctly the first time. no medical advice please note that since we are not doctors, lawyers, or health care professionals, we are unable to answer any questions related to these topics, even in response to comments and questions. while we share our own experiences in the hope of inspiring you to make conscious health decisions after consulting with a qualified professional, we can’t offer any advice for a specific problem or condition and comments or questions asking medical advice will not be answered. the information contained on this website, or provided at your request, is for informational purposes only. no information on avocadu.com is or should be used for the purposes of diagnosing, treating, preventing, or curing any disease. the information on this website has not been evaluated by the food and drug administration. nothing on this website is intended to recommend any particular form of medical treatment or that persons manage their own health problems without the advice of a licensed healthcare practitioner. you should always consult a qualified medical professional before making any health decision or taking any product or supplement. information found or received through this website should not be used in place of a visit with, call to, consultation, or advice from a professional health care provider. if you suspect you have a medical problem, or should you have any health care related questions, please promptly call or visit your healthcare practitioner. no information on this site should be used to diagnose, treat, prevent or cure any disease or condition under any circumstances. thank you for your comments and contributions to this website! we really do appreciate it! this post may contain affiliate links. please read our disclosure for more info. hey, y'all! i'm lauren! i'm so excited you're here! at avocadu, we believe in quality over quantity and that diet is everything when it comes to your health and well-being. in short, we believe in being healthy from the inside out. learn more → recent posts weight loss bullet journal – how to use your bullet journal to lose weight 6 ways to use meditation to lose weight phentermine for weight loss: does it work and is it safe? rapid weight loss: lose 10 pounds in 10 days (diet + workout + new you) how jennifer lost 78.4 lbs with a healthy diet and support system categories blog healthy living recipes supplements weight loss yoga copyright © 2020 · disclaimer · privacy policy · comment policy · terms & conditions · contact · the new grind llc dba avocadu.com is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com.