home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library holidays travel prevnext avoid holiday disasters – a guide to the perfect family holiday checklist leyla preston wed 11th jul 2018 1shares share tweet pin going on holiday with the family means that you can just pack up your stuff and leave paying no further thought about what you need to do, right? wrong! the first time we went on holiday as a family, we ‘went with the flow’ and almost missed our plane, forget snacks for the journey, and pack so much useless stuff that we ended up paying extra for the excess weight in our suitcases. we also didn’t factor how long it would take to get to the accommodation and any other vital bits of information that we should have ironed out before we had left the uk. cue stress, tantrums, and not a very relaxing holiday. never, ever doing that again – ever! whether you are preparing for a weekend trip up north or backpacking around the world, a handy checklist that includes all possible items that you would need for your holiday means that you will be well prepared for any unforeseen incidents that might come your way. after many family holidays and too many accrued grey hairs, i have come up with a foolproof (ish) guide on how to create the perfect family holiday checklist, so you’re not just winging it on holiday. feel free to add to this list by sharing your tips in the comments below: table of contents before you leave home make sure your passport is up to date pay off all bills and schedule automatic payments make sure there are no dirty dishes about and clean up the fridge and any rubbish go through all your personal items and throw out things you don’t need create a packing list hold all mail, newspapers, and packages consider having someone look over your home add an email autoresponder unplug and switch everything off get vaccinated if required get yourself a decent first aid kit apply for necessary visa and insurance documents check your tickets, make sure they contain the correct information pack chargers and fully charge electronics – don’t forget the necessary adaptors! weigh your luggage make accommodation/restaurant/local sights reservations as far in advance as possible check airline restrictions before leaving find out about your credit/debit card fees from your bank before you leave research into the local area’s water supply and food check the weather forecast before and pack for all seasons – dress appropriately! google places to visit or purchase a guide on the country/town that you are visiting find out about transportation from the airport to accommodation and getting around find out when local shops and facilities are open and plan your time accordingly on the way to the destination reading material and snacks put all liquid items under 100ml in plastic bags change money car hire make sure all valuables go in hand luggage buy your mini toiletries and sun lotion at duty-free before you leave home make sure your passport is up to date just a few months ago, we had the palaver of renewing my 5-year-old son’s passport, one week before we were scheduled to leave for switzerland. the passport had only just run out a few months prior, but because we hadn’t checked, it was too late for the premium one-week service. so, my husband and son had to set off by themselves the day before, but i had managed, through numerous calls, begging, and parking outside victoria’s passport office, to retrieve the new passport and fly the next morning, hours before my husband’s sister’s wedding was scheduled to start. we could have avoided all this if one of us had just checked his passport at least six months before. so, the very first tip in organising your holiday is check your passport! make sure you have years left before you must renew and if you don’t, renew it early. pay off all bills and schedule automatic payments you don’t want to be smacked with a hefty bill when you come back. make sure there are no dirty dishes about and clean up the fridge and any rubbish otherwise, you will come back to something new growing in your kitchen. go through all your personal items and throw out things you don’t need this is the perfect chance for a declutter session. put away things you don’t need and start packing the things you need. create a packing list keep toiletries and cosmetics to a minimum. you can pick up popular shampoo and sun lotion at your destination, so you need not bring it with you in your suitcase. hold all mail, newspapers, and packages unless you want people to know you’re not home? consider having someone look over your home if you have a friendly neighbour, have a quick chat with them about looking over the property whilst you are gone. if they spot anything unusual, they can either call your emergency numbers or the police directly. it pays to be nice to your neighbours! add an email autoresponder so people know that you’re not available for work or that you will check emails less frequently than usual. that way they don’t think you’re ignoring them. unplug and switch everything off there is no need to pay for electricity and water when you’re not even at home. get vaccinated if required this is important, especially when you have children. make sure you’re fully protected before you leave. get yourself a decent first aid kit this can include plasters, wipes, paracetamol etc. sting treatments would be useful if you’re going somewhere hot and where you may be prone to mosquito bites. apply for necessary visa and insurance documents depending on where you go, it’s best to make sure you have all the documents that will allow you to travel and stay at your destination. if you’re having your holidays in the maldives then you’ll only need your passport, but if you’re travelling from the uk to the us, for example, you’ll need an additional valid visa to be allowed into the country. check your tickets, make sure they contain the correct information people have been turned away at the airport because of a simple typo in their name. if you spot any incorrect information, get onto the airline and be nice. they are there to help smooth over any issues with your travel documents. pack chargers and fully charge electronics – don’t forget the necessary adaptors! if you have kids flying with you on a long-haul flight, you will need your technology friends to help pass the time. make sure they are charged, so you don’t run out of battery before you get to the destination. weigh your luggage if you’re over the limit, then it would be a lot easier to remove items at home rather than at the airport. and, if you don’t have any place to put your excess items at the airport, they’ll throw it away! make accommodation/restaurant/local sights reservations as far in advance as possible you should, ideally, have arranged your accommodation well in advance, but if you can reserve local hotspots, you reduce your waiting time on holiday. you’re only there for a short period, don’t waste it waiting around. check airline restrictions before leaving are you only allowed to bring one carry on? do you have any special bonus features that can be added etc? best to check this before you’re rushing around at the airport. find out about your credit/debit card fees from your bank before you leave some banks allow you to make international transactions without a fee attached and some don’t. make sure you find out whether or not your banks charge you. research into the local area’s water supply and food is the water contaminated? not everyone has an elaborate water system where you can drink from the tap. in north cyprus, drinking water needs to be bought and bottled up. if you drink their local water, you will live with stomach issues for the duration of the trip. check the weather forecast before and pack for all seasons – dress appropriately! if you’re going on a summer holiday, don’t pack three winter coats and lots of hats and scarves. common sense would mean that you would need to pack predominantly summer gear. however, on the occasion, there may be rain or even a dip in temperature at night. so, pack some rain gear and extra layers to make sure you’re covered when the weather turns. google places to visit or purchase a guide on the country/town that you are visiting make sure you hire a good local guide as well if you can. a local’s perspective will be the most accurate for that area, but do your research and ask for references. decide before you leave home. find out about transportation from the airport to accommodation and getting around you should be able to google the journey or call the accommodation and ask for the easiest and quickest way to the destination. find out when local shops and facilities are open and plan your time accordingly some shops are not open at the weekend and some shops are few! so, make sure you know what’s available to you when you arrive. on the way to the destination reading material and snacks you can buy great travel-sized reading material and snacks at the airport, so you need not pack these in advance unless you’re saving money. put all liquid items under 100ml in plastic bags anything over 100ml needs to be in the suitcase, otherwise, they should be in plastic bags and easy to take out of your hand luggage. the airport supplies these plastic bags. change money check the currency rates and find the cheapest way to change your money. you have tons of current exchange shops at the airport. car hire when renting a car, consider packages with flights and accommodation to see if they offer discounts. otherwise, it’s very simple to hire a car at the airport when you land. make sure all valuables go in hand luggage if they’re not the airport’s definition of restricted items, then they can sit in your hand luggage, so they are always with you. list all the valuables you are bringing with you, so you make a quick check when you leave. also, if anything goes missing, you’ll be able to hand over the list to the local police or your insurance company. buy your mini toiletries and sun lotion at duty-free you only need travel-sized and they’re cheaper too! for more handy travel tips and tricks, check out wanderlust15.com, which contains lots of inspirational articles to make sure you get the best out of your holiday. also, feel free to add to the holiday checklist by commenting below. leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:checklistfamily holidayguidetravel related posts top seasonal family friendly holidays wh... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sard... ghostly cork summer car trips with the kids ways you can save money on flight ticket... top five family holiday destinations to ... keeping the kids entertained during trav... the best holiday destinations for new pa... the ultimate parenting gift guide – give... 6 reasons why you should take your baby ... how to rv in the winter why disneyland paris should be the numbe... my top ten tips for travelling with tiri... how to prepare for a baby – the first-ye... benefits of using public transport over ... does your personality affect the way you... 21 travel hacks you need to know this su... 7 reasons why you should take the family... how to make the most of your family holi... tips for travelling with children 5 reasons why you should holiday in the ... top 3 great things i want to do with the... 10 reasons why you should rent an rv thi... sharm el-sheikh – a top class thomson ho... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok