award winning ecommerce website development services think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 ecommerce development we helped our clients generate $100+ million in ecommerce sales. get started now stunning ecommerce websites why choose smartsites for ecommerce development exceptional designs smartsites creates spectacular ecommerce websites that sell. driven ecommerce development team our ecommerce developers possess many years of experience. terrific reviews we constantly achieve complete customer satisfaction via our ecommerce development projects. expert ecommerce developers our team can provide the professional guidance you need to implement an e-business plan and security technologies to ensure the effectiveness, privacy, and safety of your company. live up to consumers' expectations today, savvy consumers will conduct thorough research before deciding to buy. prevent them from disengaging from the process by giving them what they need. earn customers' trust we can develop creative and beautifully designed ecommerce websites that generate trust for your clients. dedicated project manager our ecommerce-trained project managers are here to oversee the successful completion of your website. personalized designs our developers do not work from premade templates. all our ecommerce site designs are completely unique. proven development methods our ecommerce development methods are search-engine friendly and well-loved by our clients. top rated ecommerce clients rave about our robust ecommerce solutions. our ecommerce experts will help you save time and increase sales. olivia perconti, owner avoir le chic smartsites did an awesome job on my new business website. i feel they completely understood my vision. lara henawi, founder shop ludovica they've helped our e-commerce store improve in so many ways through their marketing and advertising tools. john serrano, production manager plant guru we have been working with this company for about a year now and they helped take our brand to the next level with creative designs, marketing strategies and fast turn around time! ed murcia, owner/president application associates michael and his team did an amazing job with our full website re-design - the site looks awesome! kevin botero, coo pet costume center our first month with smartsites was everything we could expected and more. i’ve worked with other ppc companies in the past- none compare to dylans constant attent... ecommerce services how smartsites performs ecommerce development ecommerce development keeps business sites free from coding errors, which may prevent search engines from indexing these sites. technical specification people & process do you use templates to design my online store? no. we use a unique design concept for every client to ensure that we meet their needs with the highest level of accuracy. our designers team up with you to refine a unique feel and look that is necessary for your online success. do you offer hosting services? yes, we do offer website hosting services. we will not only help you get a unique domain name, but we also ensure that your website is designed in a way that attracts many hits. our hosting services are able to deliver scalable, manageable and highly available environments for data networks that are mission critical. what kind of customer support do you offer? we have a team of customer care representatives who are always on standby to answer any queries. for every project, we assign our clients a project manager who is in charge of the operation and is the main contact person throughout the design process. this way, you get immediate updates about your project and you have one person who is answerable to you. what type of training do you provide? our work does not end when we submit the final ecommerce designs. we take a further step by providing you with information and tools that will help you maintain a successful store. additionally, we offer customized training programs such as building a successful ecommerce business, catalog development, and search engine marketing. can you help me develop an ecommerce store? there are a lot of choices when looking at building or expanding your business website. how do you know which the best choice is? that can depend on a number of factors. for example, budget, products, services, content management systems required, apps, marketing campaigns, etc. talk to our team of experts to get the best advice. they will help you choose the right ecommerce development solution that suits all your needs. what platforms do you typically build on? we work with a wide array of ecommerce platforms including magento, woocommerce, shopify, and bigcommerce. how do i get started? once we understand your requirements, we put together a detailed proposal to determine the scope. we will ask you lots of questions to ensure we understand everything you need, and we will communicate with you frequently once the design process has started. how do you confirm my requirements? to ensure we know exactly what you need, we will plan the process and furnish you with a document that outlines that process and timeline. get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha email this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated alex really is excellent at marketing and since i have joined, our business has tripled this month. he really cares about his clients growth. being a new business growing my business slow and steady with smartsites is by far one of the wisest choices that i have made! lifestyle directives group shari wasserman view 100+ more testimonials smartsites is a one stop shop to outsource your website, online marketing and also content. the staff is very knowledgeable and also responsive. englewood cliffs news william woo view 100+ more testimonials excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials they did a great job and i noticed the positive results almost immediately. they are professional and very pleasant to work with. they had responded to all my emails within 1 hour window. i am very happy with the services provided and i highly recommend to everyone. new jersey mediation maryana kanda view 100+ more testimonials mike and his team proved to be an invaluable resource. smartsites was there to ensure that the final product matched our vision perfectly. they take the time to learn their clients’ business inside and out, and are a key part of the team every step of the way. sharemoney steven taylor view 100+ more testimonials smartsites showed me great results fast and now they run google adwords, bing ads, and facebook ads for me. smartsites also manages the website and seo initiatives. we recently expanded our third location and continue to drive appointments through the digital marketing. studio esthetique vladimir byhovsky view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: services ecommerce development recent ecommerce development posts posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on february 25, 2020 5 key areas to think about before creating your company website read posted on february 16, 2020 clear the mess on your own cleaning business website read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect