skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii march 27, 2020 vishnu plugins 0 comments post series: woocommerce extensions 1.awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part i 2.awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part ii 3.awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii woocommerce is a popular platform for building and running an online store. it comes with a whole range of functions to run a business of any size. there are many extensions made especially for woocommerce, either to add functionality or to carry out a specific unique task with woocommerce. this article is the third part in the series of articles on woocommerce extensions. to check out extensions dealing with product pricing, product display, and printing and invoicing, check out part i. if you’re on the lookout for woocommerce plugins to help with marketing, social media, and payments, head over to part ii. in this part, we will get to know extensions that help with the following: shipping and delivery general utility miscellaneous shipping shipstation shipstation is a plugin from woothemes that helps to automate the shipping process. you will no longer need to manually print labels and weigh each package individually. the integration into shopping platforms is real time. you can import orders from woocommerce with all the details of weight and product options. the plugin can include the preferred shipping method of the customer and any special instruction. with shipstation, create the shipping label and post the details of the shipping carrier, the shipping status, and the tracking number back to woocommerce. the customer can receive a standard or customized email when the product is shipped. this plugin is web based, so you can access the shipping function from anywhere. shipstation is free for 30 days, after which you will have to subscribe to monthly subscription plans ranging from $25 to $125 per month. woocommerce advanced shipping this plugin, woocommerce advanced shipping, lives up to its name, offering a number of options in shipping products. it applies conditional logic using parameters, such as country, zip code, subtotals, quantity, weight, and size specifications. you can work out and apply your own shipping rates with suitable conditions and arrive at your own table. it is developer-friendly and customizable. two extensions are available: shipping zones, which will help you create shipping zones based on area, zip code, and country, and advanced pricing, which will help you treat one whole group of countries as one, such as the european union. prices can be per product, per category, or per shipping class. if you want to insert a condition that isn’t there, get in touch with customer support. purchase the plugin for $17 and be entitled to future updates and six months of support. you can get support for another six months for an additional $5.10. woocommerce weight based shipping woocommerce weight based shipping is a woocommerce extension for shipping that is based on, well, weight. with the integration of this plugin, potential customers can quickly calculate the shipping cost for their order. of course, you can add several different rules that vary on different conditions which you preset in the configuration settings. no rocket science when setting up woocommerce weight based shipping for your online store. no doubt, even if you are a beginner, you can still get things going with the shipping based on weight. there are many valuable and convenient features that will help you set up the plugin according to your needs and requirements. flexible price calculations, flat rates, exclusive free shipping and support for different shipping classes, woocommerce weight based shipping has all the necessary and more. table rate shipping for woocommerce table rate shipping for woocommerce adds a new shipping method directly to your woocommerce settings. the plugin can categorize your destinations into various zones. you can charge additional fees for certain zones, and you can set the rates as fixed or variable. this plugin can apply multiple rates for deliveries based on conditions like destination, weight, price, volume, shipping class, and any special transport requirements. separate levels of service can command different rates. for example, you can apply a different rate for express deliveries. with this no. 1 best-selling woocommerce extension on codecanyon, compute the shipping rates inclusive or exclusive of tax. rate bundling is also possible for customers who purchase many items. in addition, you can arrange the shipping option in the order you want and can set the default option. the plugin costs $22 and comes with six months of support and future updates. support can be extended to 12 months for an additional $6.60. general utility ultimate woo it would not be fair to call ultimatewoo a plugin. it is an entire suite of plugins that gives you access to a number of modules. all you have to do is install ultimatewoo and enable the extensions you need. to get an idea of what this plugin can do for you, just glance at the screenshot below. ultimatewoo also helps your shop to receive payments, analyze and report on various aspects, ship out orders, send out emails, and more. the 78 extensions included would cost you a cool $5,922 if purchased individually. you can choose to download the lite version containing only 12 modules for free and receive limited support and updates. or you can pick the personal license for use on one wordpress website for $99, the business license for use on five wordpress websites for $199, or the developer license for use on an unlimited number of websites for $299. all premium licenses will receive regular support and one year of automatic updates. woocommerce amazon affiliates—wordpress plugin woocommerce amazon affiliates converts your woocommerce store into a powerful affiliate marketing enterprise, earning income by way of commission. with the advanced search and bulk import module, a store owner can search for and select products by category and subcategory. you can also choose variations of any product or select a price range. the asin grabber helps to browse through products and then import it into your store in bulk with csv importer. you can automatically modify your content from amazon. this means your products are in sync with amazon products. you can use your onsite cart to collect products and checkout from amazon. you can check out directly from amazon, too. if a user is redirected to amazon, the product will be added to your cart and kept there for 90 days. so, if purchase is postponed, you will still earn a commission from it. this plugin also allows cross-selling. this plugin can only be used as an addition to an existing or a new woocommerce store. a user cannot set himself up to be a pure amazon store dealer. a regular license, which comes with six months of support and future updates, will cost $34. for an extra $10.20, the support will be extended to 12 months. germanized for woocommerce germanized for woocommerce is an exclusive woocommerce extension that will help you with tailoring your ecommerce website to the german market. especially the legal conditions, keeping your online store fully compliant with the rules and whatnot. still, germanized for woocommerce can do oh so much more, making sure that your woocommerce website operates without a hitch. the features of this tool seem to be endless, so we will mention just a few for you to get the gist of it. use germanized for woocommerce to show special tax notices, shipping costs, delivery times, dhl integration, sepa direct debit payment gateway and you can also adjust legal woocommerce checkboxes. this is still just a tiny percentage of all the goodies that germanized for woocommerce brings to the table. of course, germanized for woocommerce is also compatible with translation plugins, like wpml and polylang. woocommerce admin if you require more details, stats and data from your ecommerce website, you better take a peek at woocommerce admin. this spectacular extension comes with a new javascrip interface that adds more goodies to your admin dashboard. in short, with woocommerce admin, you will manage and maintain your online store or if pushing digital products even simpler and have a much better overview of the performance. there are tons of new and improved reports that woocommerce admin adds, like revenue, orders, products, categories, taxes, downloads and stock reports. of course, you can also style the admin dashboard further and tailor it to your needs precisely. with the automatic installation of the plugin from the admin panel, you can start using woocommerce admin in just a few clicks. if you need more, now you get more. booster for woocommerce booster for woocommerce is a magical extension that will take your website to an entirely new degree. with more than one hundred modules, you know you will find all the necessary to boost your page to the next level without breaking a single drop of sweat. booster for woocommerce covers pretty much anything and everything that you would want to configure, improve or edit within your woocommerce page. from prices, currencies, buttons and price labels to products, cart, checkout, payment gateways, shipping and orders, booster for woocommerce takes care of it all and plenty more. keep in mind, if you would like to take things a step further, booster for woocommerce also comes with the premium version that unlocks what seems an unlimited number of features and functions. enjoy all the goodies that booster for woocommerce has available for you and grow your online business to new heights. woocommerce pdf invoices & packing slips instead of sending out default invoices, you can now add a printable pdf version with this dedicated plugin. it also includes an option to create packing slips which you can download and print from the order admin page. a super convenient woocommerce extension that saves you time, yet at the same time elevates your performance. moreover, you will also find a pdf invoice template, but you can also create your own if necessary. it is fully customizable and easily brandable. with woocommerce pdf invoices & packing slips you can also sort out bulks orders with ease. on top of that, the plugin already comes in several different languages, like english, finnish, slovenian, spanis and french to name a few. of course, there is always an option to go premium and unlock even more features. woocommerce multivendor marketplace when looking to build a multivendor marketplace, you can help yourself with woocommerce multivendor marketplace plugin. this is a powerful and simple to use woocommerce extension with a ton of features and functions that you can put into play out of the box. speaking of which, woocommerce multivendor marketplace comes with flexible commissions, reverse withdrawals, single product multivendor and zone and country-wise vendor shipping. it also supports multiple different payment methods, like paypal, stripe, skill and bank transfers. besides, it also supports custom payment gateways. other sophisticated modules include store invoice, support ticket, shipment tracking and many more in between. in short, if your objective is to hammer out a multivendor marketplace, look no further and pick this striking woocommerce extension. make your lives simpler and take your project to a whole new degree. custom product tabs for woocommerce you can now add more information about an item with custom product tabs for woocommerce. this woocommerce extension unlocks new tabs which allow you to include specifications, reviews, descriptions and loads more. you can add tabs on a per product basis, but you can also save the tabs and append them to multiple other items as well. these new tabs appear on the right side of the default description tab. what’s more, custom product tabs for woocommerce use wordpress’ text editor which can contain plain text, html, images and shortcodes. moreover, the plugin is also compatible with wpml, so feel free to translate it to the language of your ecommerce website. woocommerce wishlist plugin when you would like to buy something but, for whatever reason, you can not proceed with the purchase at the moment, you add it to the wishlist so it does not go away. later, you come back, see a bunch of other goodies you forgot you add and simply buy all of them. it is a big win for the business owner indeed. well, you can now create a similar experience for your potential buyers on your online store. with woocommerce wishlist plugin, you can help others start stuffing their wishlists and buy only when they can. like mentioned earlier, there is a great chance that, instead of buying just the main product, they will purchase several other products that they – “unaware” – added to the wishlist. woocommerce wishlist plugin ensures that the product immediately gets removed from the wishlist once added to the cart. moreover, it allows you to customize the layout, utilize preset icons and even upload your custom buttons. last but not least, your customers can also share their wishlist on social media platforms and via email. wc marketplace wc marketplace is a free extension that promises to turn your store into a marketplace. for a visitor, it would be very much like walking into a virtual huge multistore marketing complex. you can allow users to sell anything on your site, much like amazon, by registering as vendors on your site. wc marketplace’ design is strictly according to wordpress coding standards, and all the documentations are available for download. as it is free, with extensions being added continuously, this is a great addition to your e-commerce store at no extra cost. with this plugin, approve vendors in bulk automatically or individually and manually. manage them via bulk actions. allow products to be uploaded automatically by vendor or only after manual approval. set a threshold limit, product-wise or vendor-wise, for sales before commission is paid, and make a charge for the withdrawal of commission. you can make the payment through paypal. wc marketplace lets you edit the vendor page url from your wordpress, and you can block vendors. you can link the product page to a vendor, and vendors can set shipping from the front end. vendors can configure their own stores and export data in bulk. they can add or edit products and add coupons to products. also, they can get immediate notification of new orders, view the back end, and withdraw their commission. five premium add-ons make this plugin more attractive for vendors to register on your site. vendors can view inventory reports, transactions, and sales from the front end. they can also view specific google analytics dates and set their own stock alerts. this plugin, developed by dual cube, has earned for itself an impressive five-star rating. some more options that can help you to generally spruce up your woocommerce are listed here. woocommerce store exporter is for the reverse function of csv importer, exporting store details out of woocommerce into files outside woocommerce. it can export products by categories, variations, brands, tags, and much more. the premium version will also export to an email address and schedule regular exports. w3 super cache wordpress plugin helps in the efficient use of server resources by serving up static files to users who are not logged in or to those who do not leave a comment on your site. this helps products load faster as outdated and obsolete files are cleaned. woocommerce customizer will help you to customize without having to use code. woocommerce multilingual enables fully multilingual sites. you can translate store pages and switch languages. miscellaneous woocommerce bookings woocommerce bookings is very useful when you want to sell your services by time (such as hotel rooms), when you want to allot a particular resource to a particular time slot (such as an instructor to a class), or when you want to offer appointments. with this extension, you can create booking slots and allot them on request. you can send email confirmations as soon as booking is completed. then, you can send reminders closer to the dates booked. a booking calendar is handy so that you have an overview of how many slots are available and how many are booked. customers can also view the slots that are available and make their pick. if you notice that some slots are not really a favorite with customers, you can offer a discount on them. you can give special rates and off-season rates as well. the plugin enables you to manage multiple products, too, for example, rooms in a hotel and seats on a bus for local tours. you can further set and alter the buffer period between bookings. if you combine this extension with product add-ons, you can offer extras on the booking. note that only the website administrator can modify the bookings. the price for this plugin ranges from $249 to $449. order delivery date for woocommerce order delivery date for woocommerce will allow you to offer a customer the option to pick any date for the delivery of their purchases. it uses the datepicker that is inbuilt in wordpress. this plugin will reduce the chances of the delivery person finding a locked door when he goes to deliver and save a second trip. you can display the possible delivery dates you want and allow the buyer to pick a date. you can exclude days like sundays or any special holidays. the date picked by the buyer will show up when you view the order, so you can take note of the specific instruction for delivery. the premium version of this plugin will allow you to customize the calendar and allow cutoffs for the same-day and next-day deliveries. you can include the delivery date in a custom email. further, the calendar can display two months, and the time range for the delivery can be shown. woocommerce my account widget woocommerce my account widget provides a lot of information about your customers in your woocommerce shop. see the number of items in the shopping cart and the number of incomplete orders. the plugin also displays the unpaid orders and the link to the shopping cart. it is compatible with wpml and is available in over five languages. here are a few useful extensions: woocommerce memberships helps you sell memberships. restrict access to content, and distribute content to members according to a set schedule. create many types of membership plans, and attach different perks, privileges, and access for each. the extension costs $149. woocommerce product enquiry for woocommerce lets you ask questions right from the products page. you can turn a visitor into a buyer. checkout field editor lets you add custom fields on the checkout page. edit existing fields, or remove them altogether. you can also add text, datepickers, and checkboxes. purchase this extension for $149. woocommerce currency switcher helps you convert one currency to another in real time. it is available both as a shortcode and as a widget. the customer can pay in the selected currency. the premium version will convert the currency automatically based on the customer’s ip geolocation. woocommerce checkout for digital goods is for selling digital products. it is easy to install and skip all the unnecessary fields, like addresses and phone numbers. purchase this plugin for $7. conclusion this list concludes my three-part series on useful extensions that add functions to your woocommerce store. if you have found any plugins that are particularly useful, please share them with us. in case you haven’t decided on your wordpress theme with woocommerce integration, you might want to read this article to find the best examples. if you want free themes, the best place for research is here. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. shipping pluginswoocommercewoocommerce pluginswordpresswordpress plugins share this share tweet pin it share vishnu vishnu is a freelance writer by night, works as a data analyst by day. related posts 9 most accurate wordpress visitor counter plugins are you thinking about adding visitors counter on your website to display the number of… 10 plugins to stop ad blockers on your wordpress website 2020 advertisers and the advertising industry, in general, are in quite a pickle right now. the… best 15 wordpress recipe plugins 2020 quite a number of people, such as top chefs, moms who cook four meals a… top 10 wordpress email subscription plugins if you are an online entrepreneur, you probably know the importance of newsletter to your… top 26 jquery form plugins and effects 2019 where would the web be today without forms? we might as well ask where the… top 28 free wpbakery page builder (visual composer) addons & extensions for wordpress 2020 wpbakery page builder was the first-ever wordpress plugin for building pages that support addons/plugins. wpbakery… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue 13 amazing paid wordpress advertising plugins 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (122) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part ii we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×