video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map aytekin tank vip contributor entrepreneur; founder and ceo, jotform follow about aytekin tank aytekin tank is the founder and ceo of jotform, the easiest online form builder. jotform was ranked in the 2016 entrepreneur 360™ list, an annual ranking of the most entrepreneurial private companies in the u.s. more from aytekin tank crisis management a healthy and productive guide to virtual meetings we need to embrace change and rethink virtual meetings. here's how to promote a positive remote culture. 6 min read procrastination just do it: how to work when you really don't feel like it avoiding daily tasks can crush our happiness, hurt our bank accounts, and even damage our health -- but you can learn how to move forward. 7 min read work-life balance you don't need a clone to do it all five recommendations on when and how to leave work at work. 6 min read time management why hacks won't help you manage your time you've got to know yourself and respect your prime time. 6 min read higher purpose stop chasing happiness. what you really want is meaning, and you can have it now. the pursuit of happiness will always let you down, but you can find meaning in your smallest daily responsibilities. 6 min read scheduling tools take back your time with context scheduling multi-tasking is a focus drain. boost your productivity with context scheduling, or time blocking. 6 min read sleep habits what to do before bed tonight to improve tomorrow how much sleep you get is important, but here's how to set yourself up for the best sleep. 6 min read burnout to prevent workplace burnout, ask these 3 questions too often we place the blame for burnout on the individual, when the fault lies with the culture they're embedded in. 6 min read creativity to find solutions, try unfocusing. here's how. when your mind wanders, it is far from idle. 5 min read conflict management the right way to have tough conversations conflict can make or break your company. here's what to do when the argument is unavoidable. 7 min read work-life balance how cultivating relationships helps you (and your company) thrive it's important to keep yourself anchored to people and communities outside of work. 6 min read stress management how to make stress work to your advantage learn how to transform pressure into productivity. 5 min read reading how reading books helps your brain recharge it may seem counterintuitive, but absorbing information through old-fashioned books gives your brain a break. 6 min read vulnerability the best entrepreneurs know when to lose control looking to expand your business? being more vulnerable might help. 6 min read lifestyle how to take back the first hour of your day a five-step guide for going beyond the typical morning routine. 6 min read 1 2 3 4 5 6 company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account