content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search b2b influencer marketing the people have the power because paid advertising is increasing in expense and, in some cases, decreasing in effectiveness, companies of all sizes and shapes are turning to earned exposure through influencer marketing. in theory, it makes perfect sense. consumers trust one another more than they trust messages from brands. thus, if we can get human beings to carry our marketing water on behalf of the company, not only do costs go down, but persuasiveness goes up simultaneously. the majority of influencer marketing software and industry chatter focuses on the use of influencers to pitch consumer-focused products. instagram is rotten with influencer appeals (many of them ham-fisted) for all manner of b2c doo-dads and gadgetry. in reality, however, influencer marketing is more important for b2b than for b2c. after all, the average purchase size in b2b typically dwarfs that in b2c, and the impact of referrals and word of mouth are more critical to the success of the organization. note that 19 percent of the overall us economy (b2b and b2c) is driven specifically by word of mouth, but 91 percent of b2b transactions are at least influenced by word of mouth. in short, without word of mouth and influencer marketing, b2b purchases would grind to a halt, because nobody takes a flyer on b2b products and services the way they gamble on consumer-focused items. but how do you find, activate, and measure influencers for your b2b company? we can help. we strategize, craft, and operate b2b influencer marketing programs for companies like oracle, comcast, and cision and we can deliver for you. in addition to our b2b influencer marketing programs, we also offer social media consulting for our clients, and provide content marketing creation. influencer marketing mistakes great brands don't make influencer marketing is all the rage, but it’s also very easy to botch the job. based on our many b2b and b2c influencer campaigns, this tight ebook will save you from sadness. how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept