content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search b2b tech digital marketing b2b technology and saas = constant pressure marketers and communications professionals in b2b technology and saas are facing significant new challenges. among them: a massively disrupted sales funnel; marketing/sales alignment; a flurry of new opportunities, including account-based marketing; attribution; a big move from written content to video; and the need to ramp up influencer marketing programs. we work with many iconic b2b technology and saas companies to assess, analyze, improve, and optimize their marketing and communications initiatives to meet the ever-escalating expectations of sales teams, corporate leadership, customers, and prospects. everything you need and nothing you don’t we’re not another one of those “b2b agencies” that want to take over your marketing from soup to nuts, including branding, design, tactics, and execution. at convince & convert, we’ve worked with enough tech marketers to know that you and your team are likely to be smart, progressive, motivated, and at least a little bit frustrated. you know you can succeed, and take your marketing and comms to the next level. we know it as well. we’re here to help, by creating a roadmap of success that you can implement, not one that we will execute on your behalf. we are a strategy and operations planning consultancy that works with b2b tech companies to create and codify 18-month digital communications overhauls, with corresponding playbooks that you can use to guide your work. problems we help you solve declining mqls and sqls declining lead quality insufficient marketing/sales alignment attribution modeling and marketing measurement declining engagement with social media and digital content declining ability to reach prospects via email, social media immature or unsuccessful influencer marketing programs challenges of how to create impactful company-wide social media and content calendar uncertainty about which marketing technologies are worth the spend uncertainty about percentage of content that should be video uncertainly about whether to create a podcast how to successfully staff digital marketing how to create separate digital marketing approaches for parents, students, alums, and beyond how to integrate alumni magazine into digital content, and vice-versa we’ve helped these b2b tech marketers our clients and case studies speak for themselves, but in the past 24 months we’ve helped these organizations boost the effectiveness and impact of their digital communications programs: campaign monitor cision cisco formstack icuc insight keap linkedin oracle qualcomm salesforce sap techsmith vidyard yext strategies we deliver many of our best programs for b2b tech are rooted in deep audience analysis and journey mapping, to help you see which stories, channels, and calls-to-action most deeply resonate with your key constituencies. specific strategic plan and operations roadmap programs include: digital marketing audit and strategy content marketing audit and strategy social media audit and strategy email/messaging audit and strategy website(s) audit and strategy b2b influencer marketing programs b2b content marketing creation in addition to developing strategic plans and operational playbooks to boost the impact of your digital marketing, our team also creates reports, social graphics, webinar series, video series, podcasts and more. whether it’s short form or long form, we can help you create the content you need to exceed your mql objectives. we are among the leading content marketing creators in the world for b2b tech, and have built reports and assets for many of the most iconic tech companies. need a webinar series? we can do it. need a custom research report + webinar + reaction videos + infographic + social teaser graphics? we’ve got you covered. we can even create and produce a podcast for you. see our opportunities guide for a snapshot of what we can do, but we’d prefer to put together a custom solution for you. see more about our content marketing creation services. how can we help you? b2b influencer marketing programs our founder, jay baer, is one of the world’s most influential b2b marketers. he has relationships with a large number of industry thought leaders. combined with his experience and the convince & convert team’s expertise, we are well-positioned to help you create and manage a thriving b2b influencer marketing program. from program ideation, to influencer recruitment and from influencer management, to program metrics and measurement we can do it all. we recently completed a multi-faceted influencer program, combined with a video content series for oracle called “on the fly.” our team recruited 20+ b2b influencers, and had each create a short digital marketing tip on video. the series was then edited/produced by us, and propagated to the oracle blog, youtube channel, and linkedin page. speak to a convince & convert strategist let's schedule a call to chat about your marketing goals and challenges. simply fill out this form and a convince & convert strategist will get back to you within 1 business day (or sooner) to schedule your call. we can't wait to chat with you! how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept