about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews category: baby health how to safely sterilize baby bottles updated mar 11, 2020 neve baby bottles can be breeding grounds for bacteria whether you are filling them with formula or breast milk. since the last thing you want is for stubborn germs to … read more » the 7 best baby hair brushes of 2020 updated mar 11, 2020 neve is there anything better than a full head of beautiful baby hair? sure, between everyday exploration and the crazy bedhead that develops during naps, their locks can start to … read more » the 11 best pacifiers to buy in 2020 updated mar 7, 2020 neve a bad pacifier can cause problems, so you need to be choosey. this very picky list of the best (and safest) pacifiers is all you'll need to make your … read more » cleaning your stroller: a step-by-step guide updated mar 11, 2020 neve is your baby’s stroller dirty and due for a deep cleaning? if so, you’re forgiven for feeling overwhelmed by the task. after all, there is a frame to disassemble, … read more » how old is too old for a stroller? updated mar 11, 2020 neve is it time to ditch your stroller? this 2 minute read will let you know if your toddler is ready, what the benefits are, and how to tactically transition. read more » how pacifiers affect babies’ teeth: facts vs. myths updated mar 11, 2020 neve tired parents of active babies know that pacifiers can be a total life-saver. the sucking motion that pacifiers encourage is one of the primary ways that babies self-soothe, so … read more » how to clean a pacifier: fast and safely updated mar 11, 2020 neve soothing cranky babies and toddlers became a little easier the day that pacifiers were invented. they’re a great self-soothing tool for little ones, but like anything babies use on … read more » babywearing: 23 science-backed benefits updated mar 12, 2020 neve spicer looking for the science behind babywearing? this round-up of 23 compelling studies examines evidence-based benefits of carrying your baby. read more » posts navigation 1 2 3 next we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest