about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews category: baby play, toys & gifts 13 best pull toys for babies & toddlers updated mar 11, 2020 neve our parent friends are often surprised to hear that pull toys rank high on our children’s favorite lists. these simple string-laden creatures and vehicles offer ease and enjoyment for … read more » the 11 best toy cash register to buy in 2020 updated mar 11, 2020 neve cash registers help kiddos learn essential social and academic skills. children can use their money boxes to act out a typical grocery store experience. dramatic play helps to prepare kids … read more » 11 best baby rattles to buy in 2020 updated mar 11, 2020 neve rattles are a classic tool for keeping babies soothed and entertained, but their definition has expanded well beyond the plastic orbs of our childhoods. they’re now available in many … read more » the best baby sunglasses updated mar 11, 2020 neve we've rounded up the 5 best folding high chairs of 2018 (one for every budget). these clever space-savers are excellent for small dining areas or grandmas house. read more » the 10 best teething toys to buy in 2020 updated mar 11, 2020 neve your baby is in agony! finding an effective and trusted teething toy is your number one priority. choose well and life gets instantly easier. try these... read more » 4moms mamaroo baby swing (2020 review) updated mar 11, 2020 neve spicer this 5-min review will tell you if the 4moms mamaroo (the ferrari of baby swings!) is worth the price tag. can the high-tech features settle a colicky baby? read more » the 10 best baby activity tables to buy in 2020 updated mar 12, 2020 neve spicer we've researched and identified what we believe to be the five best baby activity tables currently on the market. there is one clear winner... read more » best toys & gifts for 1 year old girls (a very picky 2020 list) updated mar 6, 2020 neve spicer searching for a gift or toy for a 1 year old girl? then you’ve come to the right place. being parents and nerds when it comes to research, we’ve rounded … read more » posts navigation 1 2 next we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest