backlog crusader comprehensive player reviews, video game backlog slaying, and thoughts on video game culture. home reviews gamer culture articles the backlog about the writer support the site patron wall of fame show search form menu- select page -homereviewsgamer culture articlesthe backlogabout the writersupport the sitepatron wall of fame search for: hide search form video game article sayonara wild hearts analysis – use of tarot in game design and narrative by angie | backlog crusader sayonara wild hearts incorporates all 22 major arcana of the tarot in its fast paced, pop-arcade, cosmic wonderland. you can check out my full review of the game here. i cannot understate how creative and ambitious studio simogo is to have given us such a spectacularly beautiful, mesmerizing rendition of the fool’s journey in video game form. i wanted to do a deep dive into the significance of tarot cards and their meanings are used in sayonara wild hearts to add a hidden layer of depth for those in know, so that’s what you’ll find in this article! i’ll be covering the entire game from start to finish (including a short explanation of tarot at the start) so please be sure to complete the game before reading to avoid spoilers. you can also watch a play through of the game here. let’s pop! continue reading “sayonara wild hearts analysis – use of tarot in game design and narrative” share this: twitter facebook reddit like this: like loading... posted in: entertainment, gamer, gaming, geek, girl gamer, nerd, nintendo switch, occult, sayonara wild hearts, tarot, videogames 18 comments other game stuff state of the blog state of the blog: where have i been? by angie | backlog crusader on february 27, 2020february 27, 2020 you may have noticed, but i have been on hiatus over the past several months, for which i apologize profusely. i wanted to thank those who continue to stop by and catch up on my posts. i started this blog back in spring of 2019 and i was writing so much, so frequently, that eventually i hit burnout about two months after my pax west trip last year. in addition, my hobby interests have turned away from gaming and writing to other things for a time, namely tarot (the happy fault of sayonara wild hearts), drawing, and online community building. i tend to go through periods of “hobby rotation” where i’m really into one thing or another for a half year or so and then move to something else, eventually circling back to an intense focus on gaming. i do plan on writing more in the future when the burnout wears off. it would warm my heart to see some of you on instagram in the mean time. i’ve included a few of my art posts from instagram between paragraphs below for anyone interested. 🙂 since you last heard from me i’ve mostly been playing dead by daylight on pc with friends when i do game. i did play and finish pokemon shield, which was fun but too easy, per the usual for pokemon games, and at the middle point of the story, the game was completely and clearly a rush job, which was rather disappointing. when the dlc releases, i will move my collection over via pokemon home and likely start breeding competitive pokemon again. i have both a massive iv breeding collection as well as a hefty competitive-grade shiny collection, so i very much look forward to seeing those on the switch! during autumn i put a lot of time into the digimon cyber sleuth port for the switch, which is what i wish pokemon could be like, a more mature experience following it’s audience as they age. i started writing a post about it, though never finished it. here’s the beginning of that review for those curious: “i need to talk about digimon, the other beloved ‘mon of my life. digimon cyber sleuth complete edition released last week on the switch recently and goodness gracious is it good! this is everything i ever wanted in a digimon game, everything i’ve wanted in a pokémon game for that matter, and the switch port is simply flawless. game industry take note, this is what a switch port should look like. it’s smooth and clean, functions perfectly, and has no bugs to speak of, with high quality graphics. the only thing it’s missing is an english dub, but i can live with that. cyber sleuth takes place in its own digimon universe that reminds me the of the meta narrative found in the digimon tamers tv series.” i’m also digging back into fire emblem three houses, starting with the ashen wolves dlc and a golden deer play through. next up on my hype list is animal crossing new horizons, and i want to do a village life “in character” diary if i can. i hope to find some motivation to start blogging again with animal crossing, but i don’t want to force it or it will make the writing fatigue come right back. thank you for supporting backlog crusader and for bearing with me! i appreciate all of my readers very much. if you would like to stay in touch with me, please feel free to visit either of the discord servers i admin where you will find me in the chat daily. 🙂 love, angie share this: twitter facebook reddit like this: like loading... posted in: animal crossing, cyber sleuth, digimon, gaming, geek, girl gamer, nerd, nintendo, nintendo switch, okami, pokemon shield, sayonara wild hearts, video games 7 comments other nerd stuff gaming and tarot discord communities – open invitation! by angie | backlog crusader on december 12, 2019 long story short: i admin two sizable discord communities and i wanted to make invitations available to readers and the gaming blogger community. both of these servers are 18+ only and lgbtq+ inclusive. details below! the first discord is called the lodge of sorceresses and it is approaching three years old with a very solid core of regular active members who would love to welcome some new folks into the community. we used to be a gwent (the witcher card game) server with a focus on minority player inclusion, but have since expanded to be a general gaming server for everyone, and we have kept the witcher theme in the user roles and channel names. you can see more details about the group and its history in this post. regardless of the feminine name of the lodge, anyone is welcome! join the lodge of sorceresses here! if you read my post a while back about sayonara wild hearts, you’ll know that i really love tarot cards both for their gorgeous art and their usefulness as a mental health maintenance tool. i’ve started a discord community called tarotholics, we have grown to over 500 members in less than a month and a half, and we have been getting absolutely amazing feedback about our community setup and activities. if you have any interest in learning tarot (persona series fans perhaps?) or read tarot already, we would be more than happy to help you along your fool’s journey. we also have a fully prized yuletide tarot card design contest accepting entries through december 25th. join tarotholics here! hope to see you guys in one of these groups soon! ❤ share this: twitter facebook reddit like this: like loading... posted in: community, discord, gamer, gaming, geek, gwent, metaphysical, nerd, sayonara wild hearts, tarot, tarot cards, video games, witcher one comment nintendo switch review nintendo switch accessory review – switchblades rail cover kickstand by angie | backlog crusader on december 4, 2019december 4, 2019 regular backlog crusader readers might have noticed a banner ad on the last dozen posts or so for an innovative, robust product called switchblades. this nintendo switch kickstand accessory is one i had been using so much that i had actually reached out the manufacturer, gravilogic, personally to see if they wanted to support backlog crusader for a while, and they did. thanks, gravilogic! i use my switchblade all the time when i play my switch. seriously. all. the time. here’s my review! continue reading “nintendo switch accessory review – switchblades rail cover kickstand” share this: twitter facebook reddit like this: like loading... posted in: christmas, console, entertainment, gamer, gaming, geek, gift, gravilogic, kickstand, nerd, nintendo, nintndo switch, switchblades, video games 2 comments video game article wolven storm – musings on love and feminism in witcher 3 by angie | backlog crusader on november 15, 2019november 21, 2019 yennefer. who is she, really? in the witcher 3 we see her relentlessly pursuing her goals across multiple continents, taking down any obstacles in her way. yes, she cares passionately for her love, geralt, but he won’t distract her from her ultimate goals. despite their closeness, she keeps extremely important secrets from the witcher during their travels, yet he trusts her implicitly. she is strong and wise, confident and skilled, and a timeless beauty. their romance is legendary in the witcher universe, literally. continue reading “wolven storm – musings on love and feminism in witcher 3” share this: twitter facebook reddit like this: like loading... posted in: entertainment, gamer, gaming, geek, girl gamer, nerd, romance, video games, witcher, witcher 3, yennefer 6 comments pc review disco elysium (pc) review – as good as it gets by bohdan on november 7, 2019 almost 20 years ago, planescape: torment made a promise. it demonstrated that video games as an art form are capable of delivering writing on par with the best narratives that exist over all forms of media. the world of planescape offered prose so invigorating and eloquent, storytelling so pristine and cohesive that it captivated creative minds for decades to come. in its stead, many games posed to be the promised heroes, ready to cash in on that promise but unfortunately, no one managed to soar as high… until now. of all iterations that could have been, few could imagine that the savior of video gaming prose would take upon such an interesting form: bare naked, hungover, laying in his filth in the middle of a ravaged motel room, awoken from eternal slumber by a hellish clarion call. rise and shine, detective. welcome to revachol. continue reading “disco elysium (pc) review – as good as it gets” share this: twitter facebook reddit like this: like loading... posted in: disco elysium, entertainment, gamer, gaming, geek, nerd, pc, planescape, review 2 comments gamer culture other game stuff serious stories games of our childhoods by angie | backlog crusader on october 23, 2019november 7, 2019 the autumn colors outside have had me feeling somewhat nostalgic lately and i wanted to expand a little on my older piece about how video games influenced the different phases of my life. it is less common than you’d expect for a non-sport hobby to stay with a child into their later adult life. what is it about video games that allow them to stick with us on such a deep, sentimental level for so many years? continue reading “games of our childhoods” share this: twitter facebook reddit like this: like loading... posted in: entertainment, final fantasy, gameboy, gamer, gaming, geek, kids, nerd, nintendo, pokemon, retro games, sonic, videogames 14 comments pc review neo cab (pc) review – a dystopian uber simulator by bohdan on october 18, 2019october 23, 2019 i must confess: i am a sucker for all things cyberpunk, so enthusiasm might cloud my judgment, but i cannot help but feel that neo cab is one of the coolest games i’ve played in a while. it is a game that does not only capture the general aesthetic of the setting (think neon lights, cheesy synths, high-tech gizmos), but its fundamental core: a struggle of an individual faced with a soul-crushing march of high-tech corporations. and neo cab achieves that not by projecting an image of some distant dystopian future. instead, it narrows the gap between reality and the imagination until i could not help but think that the world it has described is waiting for us just around the corner. continue reading “neo cab (pc) review – a dystopian uber simulator” share this: twitter facebook reddit like this: like loading... posted in: cyberpunk, entertainment, gamer, gaming, geek, neo cab, nerd, nintendo switch, review, uber, video games 7 comments nintendo switch other game stuff fire emblem three houses concept art by angie | backlog crusader on october 11, 2019 it seems i’m fighting off a bit of writer’s block this week so instead of a text article i’ve got some official fire emblem illustrations to share with you from the concept art book that was included with the collector’s edition of the three houses. obviously don’t view the rest of this post if you haven’t finished the game because some of the images have spoilers. in case you missed it, you can find my review of fire emblem three houses here. continue reading “fire emblem three houses concept art” share this: twitter facebook reddit like this: like loading... posted in: art, concept art, entertainment, fire emblem, game design, gamer, gaming, geek, nerd, nintendo switch, three houses, videogame 3 comments rising stars rising stars – gaming blogger spotlight #4 by angie | backlog crusader on september 29, 2019october 4, 2019 i wanted to make it easier for gaming writers to connect with the gaming blogger community, so i started the “rising stars” series where both veteran bloggers and readers can discover and welcome new or relatively unknown gaming writers into the community. i hope this will help to encourage and support individuals as well as maintain the health of the gaming blogger ecosystem overall! you can find the previous rising stars posts here, and now let’s take a look at this week’s featured bloggers… continue reading “rising stars – gaming blogger spotlight #4” share this: twitter facebook reddit like this: like loading... posted in: blogging, community, gamer, gaming, geek, nerd, nintendo switch, playstation, videogames, xbox 5 comments posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 10 next get backlog crusader in your email! enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. join 920 other followers follow by email! facebook twitter reddit logo design by: follow backlog crusader on wordpress.com catch up on your reading! state of the blog: where have i been? february 27, 2020 gaming and tarot discord communities – open invitation! december 12, 2019 nintendo switch accessory review – switchblades rail cover kickstand december 4, 2019 wolven storm – musings on love and feminism in witcher 3 november 15, 2019 disco elysium (pc) review – as good as it gets november 7, 2019 games of our childhoods october 23, 2019 neo cab (pc) review – a dystopian uber simulator october 18, 2019 fire emblem three houses concept art october 11, 2019 sayonara wild hearts analysis – use of tarot in game design and narrative october 6, 2019 rising stars – gaming blogger spotlight #4 september 29, 2019 to top create a website or blog at wordpress.com post to cancel %d bloggers like this: