skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged background-image it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 6 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. article march 26, 2020 how to repeat text as a background image in css using element() author ollie williams 1 comment join conversation there’s a design trend i’ve seen popping up all over the place. maybe you’ve seen it too. it’s this sort of thing where text is repeated over and over. a good example is the price comparison website, gocompare, who used it in a major multi-channel advertising campaign.… read article “how to repeat text as a background image in css using element()” background-image element() article august 28, 2019 creating a maintainable icon system with sass author tracy rotton 10 comments go to comments one of my favorite ways of adding icons to a site is by including them as data url background images to pseudo-elements (e.g. ::after) in my css. this technique offers several advantages: they don't require any additional http requests other than the css file. using the background-size property, you can set your pseudo-element to any size you need without worrying that they will overflow the boundaries (or get chopped off). they are ignored by screen readers (at least in … read article “creating a maintainable icon system with sass” background-image icons sass sass maps svg icons article july 15, 2019 managing multiple backgrounds with custom properties author chris coyier 7 comments go to comments one cool thing about css custom properties is that they can be a part of a value. let's say you're using multiple backgrounds to pull off a design. each background will have its own color, image, repeat, position, etc. it can be verbose!… read article “managing multiple backgrounds with custom properties” background background-image custom properties multiple backgrounds article february 14, 2018 css basics: using multiple backgrounds author chris coyier 13 comments go to comments with css, you can control the background of elements. you can set a background-color to fill it with a solid color, a background-image to fill it with (you guessed it) an image, or even both: body {
  background-color: red;
  background-image: url(pattern.png);
} … read article “css basics: using multiple backgrounds” background background-image css basics multiple backgrounds article february 13, 2018 css basics: using fallback colors author chris coyier 6 comments go to comments something you very much want to avoid in web design is unreadable text. that can happen when the background color of an element is too close or exactly the color of the text. for instance: .header {
  background-color: white;
  color: white;
} … read article “css basics: using fallback colors” background-image css basics article april 17, 2017 focusing a `background-image` on a precise location with percentages author jay sitter 6 comments go to comments let's say you have an element with a background-image, where only part of the image is visible, because the image is bigger than the element itself. the rest is cropped away, outside the element. now you want to move that background-image such that you're focusing the center of the element on a specific point in it. you also want to do that with percentage values rather than pixels. we're going to have to get clever.… read article “focusing a `background-image` on a precise location with percentages” background-image background-position how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers