engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget bang & olufsen beoplay e8 (3rd-gen) buy now login the buyer's guide find it, buy it and tell us how you really feel. all phones laptops gaming headphones home theater tablets more photography networking storage reviews / headphones bang & olufsen beoplay e8 (3rd-gen) reviews / headphones bang & olufsen beoplay e8 (3rd-gen) from $350+ $350 buy now share share 79 engadget score a good product that falls short of greatness. 79 a good product that falls short of greatness. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). engadget review bang & olufsen maintains its stellar audio clarity and provides good overall sound on its third version of the e8. handy features like ambient sound, wireless charging and sound customization are also nice touches. however, for $350, active noise cancellation should be on the spec sheet, too. read full review pros excellent audio clarity solid battery life lots of features refined design wireless charging case cons expensive no active noise cancellation (anc) no automatic pausing reviews 75 average critic score critic reviews 2 80 trustedreviews b&o's latest wireless earbuds aim to merge style and performance in a compact form the b&o beoplay e8 3rd gen are excellent true wireless earbuds and an ideal purchase for any avid music listener or fashion-conscious wearer with cash to burn. they offer one the most attractive designs on a true wireless set of earbuds, plus wonderfully balanced audio quality. the downside is they don’t feature anc. read full review 70 rtings b&o play e8 3.0 true wireless headphones review the beoplay e8 3.0 are premium truly wireless earbuds with a warm sound profile. they might not please fans of neutral sound but they'll be adequate for casual listening. when you're commuting, they won't reduce much noise from engine rumbles. however, in the office, their passive noise isolation will block out some chatter. read full review see all critic reviews 0 average user score user reviews 0 see all reviews specs key specs type in-ear / canalphones channels stereo drivers per ear 1 noise isolation yes active noise cancellation yes connections wireless inline controls yes type channels drivers per ear noise isolation active noise cancellation connections inline controls in-ear / canalphones stereo 1 yes yes wireless yes write a review tip: log in before writing a review step 1: rate and comment on specific criteria sound quality 0 design and form factor 0 comfort 0 noise isolation 0 durability 0 step 2: write a detailed review tips: make sure to include your initial thoughts on using the product, any observations and potentially any issues you might have run into while using it. step 3: finalize your product rating and submit your review we've calculated your overall product rating based on the average of your criteria ratings above. you can adjust this rating by dragging this slider. overall rating 0 login and submit! 79 engadget score a good product that falls short of greatness. 79 a good product that falls short of greatness. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). see all scores scores engadget 79 critic 2 reviews 75 users not yet scored user reviews there are currently no user reviews associated with this product. that's okay though because you can add your own review and we'll feature it here. write a review about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr