billionaires all billionaires world’s billionaires forbes 400 america’s richest self-made women china’s richest india’s richest indonesia’s richest korea’s richest thailand’s richest japan’s richest australia’s richest taiwan’s richest singapore’s richest philippines’ richest hong kong’s richest malaysia’s richest money & politics 2020 money innovation all innovation 5g ai big data cio network cloud cloud 100 consumer tech cybersecurity enterprise tech everbridge brandvoice | paid program games green tech healthcare ibm brandvoice | paid program oracle brandvoice | paid program sap brandvoice | paid program science servicenow brandvoice | paid program social media t-mobile for business brandvoice | paid program venture capital leadership all leadership careers cfo network cmo network deloitte brandvoice | paid program diversity & inclusion education forbeswomen google cloud brandvoice | paid program leadership strategy under 30 money all money banking & insurance crypto & blockchain etfs & mutual funds fintech hedge funds & private equity investing markets personal finance premium investing newsletters retirement taxes wealth management business all business aerospace & defense energy food & drink hollywood & entertainment manufacturing media mitsubishi heavy industries brandvoice | paid program policy real estate retail sportsmoney transportation small business all small business entrepreneurs franchises small business strategy lifestyle all lifestyle amway brandvoice | paid program arts boats & planes cars & bikes dining forbeslife forbes travel guide spirits travel vices watches lists advisor all advisor the best credit cards of 2020 best travel credit cards best business credit cards best credit card sign up bonuses best rewards credit cards best student credit cards best cash back credit cards best balance transfer credit cards best hotel credit cards best airline credit cards best first credit cards best credit cards for bad credit chase sapphire preferred card citi double cash card the platinum card from american express ink business preferred credit card bank of america premium rewards credit card chase sapphire reserve card best tax software of 2020 best travel insurance companies featured 5 innovations changing the future of food 30 under 30 2020 aarp brandvoice | paid program abb brandvoice | paid program chase home lending brandvoice | paid program cole haan brandvoice | paid program dna of success forbes analytics plus with teradata | paid program forbes insights with arm treasure data investor forecast: 5 key trends shaping your financial future money 2020 set up for success: launch your small business from scratch set up for success: scale your small business forbes insights with vertiv | paid program voices of success well earned: the world’s wealthiest celebrate new milestones breaking all breaking coronavirus more forbes daily cover stories forbes editors’ picks daily dozen briefing crypto confidential newsletters forbes shopping forbes coupons forbes 8 forbes video dark capital forbes magazine investing digest free issue of forbes bank of america® premium rewards® credit card advisor credit cards advertiser disclosure bank of america premium rewards credit card review asia martin forbes staff advisor updated: mar 24, 2020, 6:53pm i write about personal finance. editorial note: forbes may earn a commission on sales made from partner links on this page, but that doesn't affect our editors' opinions or evaluations. our verdict the bank of america® premium rewards® credit card* is a top rated cash back credit card, particularly for those who are bofa account holders. the card’s 50,000 bonus offer, up to 2 points for every $1 spent, and $200 travel statement credit more than offset its $95 annual fee. and its preferred rewards program for bofa banking customers can increase the rewards by as much as 75%. pros no foreign transaction fee tsa precheck credit visa signature concierge benefit flexible reward redemption options cons 3% cash advance fee (min $10) 3% balance transfer fee (min $10) high standard and cash advance apr no airport lounge perks highlights receive 50,000 bonus points – a $500 value – after you make at least $3,000 in purchases in the first 90 days of account opening earn unlimited 2 points for every $1 spent on travel and dining purchases and unlimited 1.5 points per $1 spent on all other purchases if you’re a bank of america preferred rewards member, you can earn 25%-75% more points on every purchase no limit to the points you can earn and your points don’t expire redeem for cash back as a statement credit, deposit into eligible bank of america® accounts, credit to eligible merrill accounts, or gift cards or purchases at the bank of america travel center get up to $200 in combined airline incidental and airport expedited screening statement credits + valuable travel insurance protections no foreign transaction fees low $95 annual fee more highlights bank of america® premium rewards® credit card regular apr 17.49% - 24.49% variable apr on purchases and balance transfers annual fee $95 welcome bonus 50,000 bonus points credit score excellent/good table of contents at a glance rewards rewards potential other card benefits the fine print pros & cons how it stacks up is this the card for you? at a glance it seems that bank of america is really trying to listen to customers. it is now offering a premium credit card that gives you the perks of a travel rewards card, the earning potential of a traditional cash back program and the exclusivity of premium rewards. the bank of america premium rewards card delivers up to $200 in travel credits and exclusive deals through its visa signature partnership. one of the impressive features is the ability to earn 2 points for every dollar you spend trekking the globe and eating out. you can also earn a sign-up bonus worth $500. earn 2 points for each dollar spent on travel and dining and 1.5 points for all other purchases preferred rewards members get a 25 to 75 percent increase in points receive 50,000 bonus points – a $500 value – after you make at least $3,000 in purchases in the first 90 days of account opening annual fee of $95, low for a premium card premium benefits include travel-related credits rewards earning rewards the bank of america premium rewards credit card offers 2 points for every dollar spent on travel and dining, with all other purchases earning 1.5 points. qualified expenses under dining range from fast food restaurants to bars. flights, trailer rentals, limousines and art gallery admissions are a few examples of the travel purchases that qualify for 2 points per dollar. the points are unlimited and face no expiration date, as long as your account is in good standing. as a sign-up bonus, you will receive . you can access your points once you’ve earned a minimum of 2,500 points, or $25. one point redeemed is worth $0.01 or 1%, therefore 2,500 points equals $25. preferred rewards program if you are enrolled in the preferred rewards program, your points can increase by 25% to 75%; that’s up to 3.5 points for every dollar spent on travel and dining and up to 2.62 points per dollar for all other purchases. bank of america offers the preferred rewards program to its customers who have a combined minimum balance of $20,000 in their banking and investment accounts. the program is divided into three tiers: $20,000 to $50,000 is the gold tier; $50,000 to $100,000 is the platinum tier; and $100,000 and over is the platinum honors. the gold tier increases rewards by 25%. to simplify calculations further, that’s 2.5 points per $1 spent on travel and dining and 1.875 points for other purchases. at the platinum level, bank of america boosts your rewards by 50%, meaning 3 points per travel and dining dollar and 2.25 points for non-travel purchases. and platinum honors ups you to 75%, netting 3.5 points per travel-related dollar and 2.62 points for all other purchases. as an example, let’s assume that within three months you put $1,500 of travel on your premium rewards credit card along with $600 of other purchases. the total equals $2,100, which is 3,900 points ($39.00 cash back). with the 25% rewards bonus, your points increase to 4,875 ($48.75); with the 50% rewards bonus, you would get 5,850 points ($58.50) and with the 75% rewards bonus, you would get 6,825 points ($68.25). you’ll find a handy calculator on the bofa site that helps you estimate the rewards you’ll earn based on your spending habits. redeeming rewards out of much demand from its customers, bank of america enhanced its redemption options. you can redeem points: as cash back on a statement credit or a deposit to make travel purchases by trading them in for gift cards deposits can go into bank of america banking accounts; merrill’s cash management accounts; its online brokerage platform and merrill’s 529 educational savings accounts. travel purchases can be redeemed through bank of america’s travel center. rewards potential accumulating points and using your rewards should be easy, if you use the card for everyday expenses. as an example, according to the economic policy institute, a family of four in fairfax, va spends an average of $9,509 a month on everything from housing, to health care to taxes. assuming 50% of these expenses can be charged to a credit card, the yearly total charged would equal $57,053. at 1.5 points per $1, that’s over 85,000 points or over $850 in cash back rewards. if you are in the preferred rewards program, your earnings increase by 25%, 50% or 75%. other card benefits $100 annual airline incidental credit: the annual airline incidental statement credit covers up to $100 in seat upgrades, baggage fees, in-flight services and airport lounge fees. travel insurance protections: protections include trip delays, cancellations and interruptions, emergency evacuations and the transportation needed, lost luggage and baggage delay inconvenience. tsa precheck credit: you can use the card to pay for the transportation security administration’s expedited screening program or the global entry program, which includes the tsa precheck program, and receive a statement credit. the card allows for one credit per account every four years as the tsa precheck and the global entry are five-year membership programs. access to visa’s signature services: you can make your upscale travel purchases through visa’s signature luxury hotel collection of over 900 hotels and its concierge service. the luxury hotel collection features best-available rate guarantee, room upgrades, late checkouts, free in-room wi-fi and late check-out, when available. you will also receive a complimentary breakfast for two and $25 food or beverage credit with your bookings. the concierge service provides personal assistance for travel planning, restaurant recommendations and event reservations. no foreign transaction fees $0 liability for unauthorized charges the fine print interest rates apr: 17.49% - 24.49% variable apr on purchases and balance transfers penalty apr: up to 29.99% apr grace period: at least 25 days fees annual fee: $95 balance transfer fee: either $10 or 3% of the amount of each transaction, whichever is greater. cash advance: $10 or 3% of the amount of the cash advance, whichever is greater foreign purchase transaction: none late penalty: up to $40 returned payment: up to $29 pros & cons what we like no foreign transaction fees tsa precheck credit flexible reward redemption options $500 introductory offer $0 liability guarantee what could be better balance transfers cost 3% of the amount transferred the cash advance apr is high how it stacks up the bank of america premium rewards card is a decent travel rewards card for those who are not novice travelers but are also not traveling heavily enough to justify the $550 annual fee you must pay for chase sapphire reserve®. it offers plenty of opportunities to earn points and its rewards, depending on how often you use the card, outweigh the annual $95 fee. this card does not offer a lot of complementary features (e.g. free use of airport lounges) that some other premium and travel rewards cards offer. however, its travel protections and flexible reward redemptions are competitive advantages against cards such as chase sapphire preferred and capital one® venture® rewards credit card*. is this the card for you? this card is well-suited for people who travel often and have membership in bank of america’s preferred rewards program. you do not need to sign up for the preferred rewards program in order to use the credit card, however, the combination of this card with the program maximizes your points and expands your reward options. next up in credit cards best bank of america credit cards chase sapphire preferred credit card review bank of america travel rewards credit card review chase sapphire reserve travel card review best credit cards for excellent credit bank of america cash rewards credit card review haven't found the right card yet? check out these popular alternatives: ink business preferred® credit card learn more learn more ink business preferred® credit card new offer! earn 100k bonus points after you spend $15,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. that’s $1,250 toward travel when redeemed through chase ultimate rewards® earn 3 points per $1 on the first $150,000 spent on travel and select business categories each account anniversary year earn 1 point per $1 on all other purchases – with no limit to the amount you can earn points are worth 25% more when you redeem for travel through chase ultimate rewards redeem points for travel, cash back, gift cards and more – your points don’t expire as long as your account is open no foreign transaction fees employee cards at no additional cost $95 annual fee more info chase sapphire preferred® card learn more learn more chase sapphire preferred® card earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. that’s $750 toward travel when you redeem through chase ultimate rewards® 2x points on travel and dining at restaurants worldwide & 1 point per dollar spent on all other purchases. get 25% more value when you redeem for airfare, hotels, car rentals and cruises through chase ultimate rewards. for example, 60,000 points are worth $750 toward travel get unlimited deliveries with a $0 delivery fee and reduced service fees on orders over $12 for a minimum of one year on qualifying food purchases with dashpass, doordash’s subscription service. activate by 12/31/21. earn 5x points on lyft rides through march 2022. that’s 3x points in addition to the 2x points you already earn on travel. more info chase sapphire reserve® learn more learn more chase sapphire reserve® earn 50,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. that’s $750 toward travel when you redeem through chase ultimate rewards® $300 annual travel credit as reimbursement for travel purchases charged to your card each account anniversary year 3x points on travel immediately after earning your $300 travel credit. 3x points on dining at restaurants & 1 point per $1 spent on all other purchases. $0 foreign transaction fees. get 50% more value when you redeem your points for travel through chase ultimate rewards. for example, 50,000 points are worth $750 toward travel 1:1 point transfer to leading airline and hotel loyalty programs access to 1,000+ airport lounges worldwide after an easy, one-time enrollment in priority pass™ select up to $100 application fee credit for global entry or tsa pre✓® one year complimentary lyft pink ($199 minimum value). complimentary dashpass subscription from doordash after activating by 12/31/21. more info you may also like the 4 best apps to track credit card rewards the forbes guide to choosing a cash back credit card best visa credit cards of march 2020 capital one ventureone rewards card review delta skymiles blue credit card review 8 things you can learn from those with a perfect credit score forbes adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. to the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. the opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved, or otherwise endorsed by our partners. asia martin forbes staff asia is a former personal finance writer for the money and markets team at forbes. before joining forbes, she reported for financial advisor magazine and also wrote for the cranford chronicle, nj.com and thepopbreak.com.#bio_separator_here#... read more first published: jun 24, 2019, 7:00am find the best credit card find the best credit card the best credit cards of 2020 best hotel rewards credit cards best credit card sign up bonuses best rewards credit cards best travel rewards credit cards trending credit card reviews platinum card from american express capital one savor review | up to 4% cash back discover it miles credit card review blue cash preferred® card from american express review platinum delta skymiles credit card review credit card 101 the forbes guide to credit cards a 60-second guide to credit utilization the lifetime value of a good credit score how to improve your credit score credit score ranges are based on fico® credit scoring. this is just one scoring method and a credit card issuer may use another method when considering your application. these are provided as guidelines only and approval is not guaranteed. receive 50,000 bonus points – a $500 value – after you make at least $3,000 in purchases in the first 90 days of account opening © 2020 forbes media llc. all rights reserved. adchoices adchoices privacy statement terms and conditions contact us send us feedback jobs at forbes reprints & permissions forbes press room forbes quote of the day advertise the forbes advisor editorial team is independent and objective. to help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the forbes advisor site. this compensation comes from two main sources. first, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. the compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. this site does not include all companies or products available within the market. second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. the compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on forbes advisor. while we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, forbes advisor does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. here is a list of our partners who offer products that we have affiliate links for. lorem are you sure you want to rest your choices? cancel ok