skip to main content search close menu close pbs search search pbs search sign in signed in as passportmenu for ... down my list viewing history settings gearprofile sign out continue watching browse home shows (has dropdown) popular pbs american portrait the roosevelts call the midwife pbs newshour finding your roots antiques roadshow independent lens no passport required nature novaall shows featured show a chronicle of three members of the most influential family in american politics.watch now right video (has dropdown) genres local arts and music drama food history home & how to news & public affairs science and nature watch on the free pbs appsee all devices right shop(has dropdown) shop pbs recently broadcast best sellers new releases shop by shows gifts sale shop by genres drama & arts history science & nature music cookingvisit shop pbs pbs kids shop books decor holiday & seasonal clothing dvds, blu-rays & cds party shopvisit pbs kids shop featured on shop pbs digital see all platforms right donate search(has dropdown) search pbs searchchoose station use one of the services below to sign in to pbs: you've just tried to add this video to my list. but first, we need you to sign in to pbs using one of the services below. you've just tried to add this show to my list. but first, we need you to sign in to pbs using one of the services below. sign in with google facebooksign in with facebook pbssign in with pbs account don’t have a pbs account? create one nowcreate a pbs account why sign in? using your pbs account, you can: enjoy the latest content from your local pbs station use my list to save your favorite shows and videos for later sync your viewing history and pick up where you left off on any device by creating an account, you acknowledge that pbs may share your information with our member stations and our respective service providers, and that you have read and understand the privacy policy and terms of use. closeclose part 1: our game ep1 | 1h 52m 56s part 2: something like a war ep2 | 1h 44m 10s part 3: the faith of fifty million people ep3 | 1h 57m 38s part 4: a national heirloom ep4 | 1h 54m 3s baseball now streaming the story of baseball is the story of america. it is an epic overflowing with heroes and hopefuls, scoundrels and screwballs. it is a saga spanning the quest for racial justice, the clash of labor and management, the transformation of popular culture, and the unfolding of the national pastime. funding provided by: general motors corporation; the national endowment for the humanities; the pew charitable trusts; the corporation for public broadcasting; the public broadcasting service; arthur vining davis foundations visit the official website for more than three decades, ken burns and his colleagues at florentine films—directors, writers, producers, editors, and cinematographers—have produced some of the most critically acclaimed and most watched documentaries on public television. see more ken burns shows right providing support for pbs.org learn more about pbs online sponsorship episodes specials extras providing support for pbs.org learn more about pbs online sponsorship explore ken burns shows right left right support for pbs.org provided by: x close pbs our sites pbs kids parents pbs teachers food arts black culture connection digital studios shop pbs pbs kids shop pbs digital downloads learn more pbs foundation the value of pbs about us press releases careers contact us support pbs producing for pbs connect with us facebookconnect with pbs on facebook twitterconnect with pbs on twitter instagramconnect with pbs on instagram newsletters public editor news & updates help & faq copyright © 2020 public broadcasting service (pbs), all rights reserved. pbs is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization. |privacy policy|terms of use|marketing preferences