home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog my trip to new orleans, workout clothes and more! january 27, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment sorry for being a little mia lately, i've been pretty darn busy. since i blogged last, i've been doing a bunch. i went to new orleans for the first time and had a blast! i always heard new orleans was crazy but i had no idea how crazy it was and we weren't even there for mardi gras. i can't even imagine the craziness of that. i took a ton of pictures so i'm … [read more...] baby oil slip-n-slides and 7 ft tall men may 29, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment how's that for a random post title ;) what a weekend! on saturday, we woke up at 2:45am to head over to the indy 500. we left the house at 3:15 and got to the track a little before 4. you have to get there early to put your car in line in order to get into the infield. after you park, people get out of their cars and tailgate at 4am!!! it's so crazy. we ended up getting … [read more...] wine at work? december 6, 2011 by erin weiss leave a comment yesterday morning..my office desk looked a little something like this.... yes...that's a bottle of wine in my office desk. no, i'm not a drunk. yes, i do have a very considerate co-worker who brought it back for me from his vacation. no, i didn't sip on it for the rest of the day out of my coffee cup at work. yes, i wish i was that badass to do so! instead, max … [read more...] great season butler bulldogs!! april 6, 2010 by erin weiss 16 comments well the outcome of last night's game wasn't what i was hoping for. butler lost by 2 points. we had a chance at the very end with one long shot and it almost went in, but didn't. we were defeated. it sucks, but this team will be remembered for a very very very long time in indiana and hopefully everywhere else. i ended up going out with a bunch of peeps last night but … [read more...] butler, beer, brats and burgers. go dawgs! april 5, 2010 by erin weiss 6 comments all i have to say is go butler bulldogs!!!! we did it!!! one more game baby! playing duke will be a huge challenge, but i think we can do it. i ended up going out friday night to see how downtown was like for the final 4 weekend. it was such an amazing atmosphere down there all weekend. it was beautiful and i'm so proud of indy for representing the way it did. i think … [read more...] go butler! april 2, 2010 by erin weiss 7 comments happy friday!!! butler weekend is finally here. indy is getting crazy as the ncaa tournament and big game is getting closer. since we are not going to the game anymore, we are renting out a private room at one of the popular bars with all you can drink and eat for 3 hours. should be a great time. it will be unbelievable if butler can pull through this and make it to the … [read more...] the sandwich bandit march 30, 2010 by erin weiss 11 comments monday morning i tested out my new stay fit cereal bowl. i filled the bottom with a cup and a half of kashi cereal and i had the cup piece in the freezer over night. when i put my milk in it and brought it to work, it was still nice, cold and fresh when i ate it. the bowl is really convenient and cute. the only bad thing was that the top of the milk container doesn't … [read more...] butler to the final 4 march 29, 2010 by erin weiss 6 comments butler won and is headed back home to the final 4!!! we are sooo very excited that butler won and is headed to the final 4 in indianapolis this coming weekend. woohooo!!! the little team that could is trucking along in this tournament and i'm along for the ride :) did you know butler only has 4 thousand something students in their enrollment and they are one of the final … [read more...] the pizza pizzazz march 26, 2010 by erin weiss 3 comments good morning beauties! thursday morning i had another bowl of kashi 7 grain cereal and almond milk. i really like this stuff, but i don't think i can ever make that my whole breakfast again. it isn't filling enough for me to hold me over until lunch. i didn't bring anything else to eat before lunch and when lunch came around i seriously was so hungry that i felt like i was … [read more...] running the monon trail march 25, 2010 by erin weiss 1 comment first of all, butler plays tonight. go bulldogs!! i'm really doubting that they win, but if they pull it off, i'll be a happy girl. if butler makes it to the final 4, i have someone who said they will buy me and my friends tickets to the game and limo rides!! comeon bulldogs!!! yesterday started with a bowl of kashi 7 grain cereal and almond breeze vanilla milk at my … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in