close mobile menu search this website home start here about resources podcast blog health beauty mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel reviews recipes beef recipes breakfast recipes condiment recipes dessert recipes drink recipes pork recipes poultry recipes salad recipes seafood recipes side dish recipes snack recipes soup & stew recipes newsletter shop menu skip to right header navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer simple answers for healthier families about start here resources podcast blog beauty health mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel recipes reviews shop search you are here: home » blog » health » simple batch cooking meal plan simple batch cooking meal plan march 26, 2020 — by katie wells reading time: 6 minthis post contains affiliate links. click here to read my affiliate policy. table of contents[hide][show] what is batch cooking? batch cooking meal plan menu+− day 1 day 2 day 3 day 4 day 5 day 6 day 7 snacks batch cooking shopping list+− produce: dairy: nuts: canned food: spices: meat: frozen aisle: batch cooking: prep day instructions+− single-step prep: meal assembly: how to customize your batch cooking meal plan cookbooks that help as a busy mom, i sometimes feel like i spend hours in the kitchen each day and that i finish cleaning up from one meal just in time to prepare the next. i’ve learned that a little careful meal planning can greatly reduce the amount of time i spend figuring out what to cook and buy at the store. plus, it’s saved a lot of time in the kitchen! here’s how i’ve started batch cooking on the weekends so i spend less time on dinner during the week. here’s how you can do the same. what is batch cooking? the idea of batch cooking is as simple as the name suggests: it’s just doing a week’s worth of meal prep in one go, so that serving individual meals does not take as long to prepare. i prefer to do a big batch of meal prep on saturdays, when the kids are happily playing in the back yard with friends and i have a few hours to spare. in addition to saving time, i’ve found that batch cooking really increases the chances of sticking to a meal plan. you definitely won’t want to waste those healthy meals you spent time preparing! note: i did not include breakfast on this list, since we have a simple 4-day rotating breakfast meal plan that involves various proteins and vegetables and i make those each day. batch cooking meal plan menu batch cooking takes a little trial and error to get used to, but once you give a try, you’ll love the time you save and the simplicity. here’s a sample meal plan to get you started! day 1 lunch: chicken salad over lettuce with carrot sticks dinner: shrimp stir-fry day 2 lunch: leftover stir fry wrapped in romaine leaves dinner: sliced chicken breast served with sliced peppers, onions, and baked butternut squash, reheated on a greased cookie sheet. serve with a salad. day 3 lunch: reheat leftover chicken from last night, wrapped in romaine leaves and served with avocado and cilantro. dinner: chili with sour cream and cheese (both optional) with a side salad day 4 lunch: leftover chili dinner: eggplant pizza with a side salad day 5 lunch: leftover eggplant pizza or chicken salad dinner: fajita salad day 6 lunch: fajita tacos (using leftover fajita meat) wrapped in romaine with avocado, salsa, cheese and sour cream dinner: reheated meatballs and salad day 7 lunch: tuna salad on spinach or carrot sticks. dinner: whatever is leftover! snacks when you’re in need of a quick snack, reach for one of these ready-to-eat nibblers: nuts deviled eggs sliced cucumber, celery sticks or carrot sticks with cream cheese or a healthy hummus tuna salad fruit batch cooking shopping list this grocery store shopping list will give you a rough idea of what to buy for a week. adjust as necessary. it is designed for two people, so just double (or triple or quadruple) depending on family size. produce: 2 avocados 2 heads romaine lettuce, kale, or other greens 1 big bag spinach 4 large sweet peppers, any color 1-3 lb bag onions fruit, like berries or grapes 2 zucchini or summer squash 1 bag carrot sticks 2 cucumbers 1 large eggplant 1 butternut squash cilantro dairy: 2-3 dozen eggs 1 lb butter 1 container (8 oz or bigger) of full-fat, plain organic yogurt (either greek or regular) 1 package cream cheese 1 block of your favorite cheese (this is optional on everything, so just get what you want) sour cream (optional) (if you’re wondering where i draw the line on dairy, see this post.) nuts: 1-2 lbs raw almonds 1 lb walnuts canned food: 1 can (organic) diced tomatoes 1 big (15 oz or bigger) can of tomato sauce 1 can salmon or 2 cans tuna 1 jar of pasta sauce (check ingredients, no added sugar or grains) 1 jar salsa (check ingredients) spices: cumin meat: 1 lb frozen shrimp (or fresh, just pre-cooked) 1 package bacon (optional) 2 lbs ground beef or turkey 5 chicken breasts or boneless thighs (i get all meat i can’t get from local farms from butcherbox) frozen aisle: 2 (1 lb) bags frozen broccoli batch cooking: prep day instructions it will simplify your life tremendously (and make it easier to stick to a healthy eating lifestyle) if you can pre-cook your family meals in one or two big batches. i try to prep everything on saturday so it is ready for the week, but you can do simple ingredient prep first and save meal assembly for later. single-step prep: cover the chicken breasts in butter and spices and bake at 350 for 30 minutes. cube two of them and slice three. hard boil 6-8 eggs (per egg eater in family). pre-cut zucchini, squash, onions, peppers, cucumbers, and other veggies. store in separate containers or bags. cut the butternut squash in half and discard the seeds. cover in 1-2 tablespoons of butter and spices. bake open side up on a cookie sheet at 325 degrees until soft (usually about 45 minutes). store in foil for re-heating. peel the eggplant and cut into ½ inch slices. cook on a greased cookie sheet at 375 degrees until well browned on both sides. make the salmon or tuna salad by mixing well-drained fish with ½ package of cream cheese and spices like dill. store closed in fridge. meal assembly: shrimp stir fry. heat butter in a skillet and add 1 pre-cut onion and 1 pre-cut pepper, cook 2 mins. add pre-cut zucchini or squash and cook 2 mins. add 1 lb frozen broccoli, cook 2 mins. add frozen shrimp and cook until veggies are tender and shrimp is heated. add desired spices (garlic, basil, salt, pepper, etc). right before eating, add ½ package of cream cheese and stir until melted (optional). here is the full recipe. chicken salad. use part of the cubed roasted chicken and combine following this recipe. store in an airtight container in the fridge. chili. combine 1 pound of the ground meat with 1 can diced tomatoes, ½ can tomato sauce, 1 chopped onion, cumin, and other spices to taste. find the recipe here. eggplant pizza. top the cooked eggplant slices with a small amount of tomato sauce, spices, cheese, chopped onions, peppers, or whatever other toppings you like. store in foil to re-heat. this is also fast to make fresh if you don’t want to make it ahead! so simple i don’t have a recipe for it! meatballs. roll up the meatballs using 1 pound ground meat, parmesan, garlic, basil, or whatever you prefer. you can also try these greek meatballs. bake for about 30 minutes at 350, then coat in pasta sauce. store covered in the fridge. fajita salad. this one you can prep right before you eat! heat your remaining sliced chicken breast with remaining sliced onions and peppers in a greased skillet. season with cumin and serve over greens with avocado, salsa, cheese, and sour cream (optional). save the recipe to use again and again here. deviled eggs. carefully slice the hard boil eggs lengthwise and remove the yolks. mash the yolks with ½ an avocado and season with mustard, dill, or other spices to taste. scoop the filling back into the eggs and top with bacon crumbles (optional). you can also follow this easy deviled eggs recipe. note: the above meal plan is great for any time of year, but i recommend sticking to whatever is in season whenever possible. i talk about my seasonal meal plans in this podcast. how to customize your batch cooking meal plan the sample meal plan menu above has worked great for me, but you might not be a fan of all of those options. in that case, you can always customize to create a meal plan you’re excited about! the more you enjoy the meals you’re making, the more likely you are to stick to the plan. here are a few other ideas for batch cooking for those busy weeknights: make use of your slow cooker or pressure cooker. you can set these up the night before, or have dinner ready super quick in the pressure cooker. try adding this chuck roast or meatloaf to the rotation! you can also check out these freezer-friendly slow cooker recipes. (if you haven’t tried an instant pot yet, you should!… i give my full review here. grab a bunch of sweet potatoes. roast them ahead of time, and then you can slice them for breakfast, stuff them with avocado, of even whip up this sweet potato casserole. grab a head of cauliflower. this is another great versatile veggie perfect for meal prepping. pulse it into cauliflower rice, or roast it in spices ahead of time. get basil and make pesto. it only lasts a few days in the fridge, but it makes a great accompaniment to whatever you’re cooking up. this is my basil pesto recipe and i also make pesto with cilantro. bonus, as a pesto these herbs lasts for up to two weeks without going bad, unlike fresh herbs on their own which only stay fresh a few days in the produce drawer. make (and freeze) a big batch of pasta sauce. it’s great for veggie pizzas. you can also use up some ground meat by making it into a bolognese! get my homemade pasta sauce recipe here. got a hodgepodge of food leftover? make burrito bowls with cauliflower rice, meat, avocado, cilantro, or whatever you have on hand. make grain-free paleo muffins! they’re great to have on hand for breakfast, as a snack, dessert, or even as a side dish. i make these grain-free apple cinnamon muffins regularly as well. cookbooks that help a good cookbook is worth its weight in gold. i use a combination of the following for batch cooking: the wellness mama cookbook: these are my best 30 minute, 1 pan meals! cook once, eat all week: i love these recipes. it gives adaptations for grain free, gluten free, or dairy free diets and has shopping lists and step by step prep lists that my husband or kids can follow. (have kids take the kids cook real food e-course first for knife skills, etc.) tip: i usually double the veggies called for when i use this cookbook. real plans: this app takes the place of my cookbooks most weeks, since it contains all of my recipes and other healthy recipes from some of the bloggers and chefs i love most. i’ve found batch cooking to save me hours of time each week. if you’re as busy as i am (or even if you’re not but still want to save time!), i definitely recommend giving meal planning and bulk cooking a try! also try my batch cooking meal plan for vacation! have you ever tried batch cooking? do you know any time-saving cooking tips? share below! facebook tweet pin linkedin reddit category: health about katie wells katie wells, ctnc, mchc, founder and ceo of wellness mama and wellnesse, has a background in research, journalism, and nutrition. as a wife and mom of six, she turned to research and took health into her own hands to find answers to her health problems. wellnessmama.com is the culmination of her thousands of hours of research and all posts are medically reviewed and verified by the wellness mama research team. katie is also the author of the bestselling books the wellness mama cookbook and the wellness mama 5-step lifestyle detox. view all posts it shouldn’t be this hard to be healthy… join the wellness mama vip email newsletter to get the latest articles, recipes, podcasts, reader discounts, and free access to my quick start guide, 7 simple steps for healthier families, and 1 week real food meal plan! you may also enjoy these posts... radish cream cheese dip (cool & zesty!) how to make whey & cream cheese paleo slow cooking review philly cheese steak peppers strawberry coconut milk ice cream recipe previous post: « diy herbal cough syrup recipe next post: how to keep kids active with adventure points » reader interactions discussion (137 comments) laura smith january 17, 2012 at 12:15 pm so another question – i’m guessing beans are out too? reply wellness mama january 17, 2012 at 12:19 pm for the most part. they certainly aren’t the worst (except soy) but they do need to be carefully prepared if eaten. reply laura smith january 17, 2012 at 11:33 am i don’t eat eggs – any suggestions for breakfast reply wellness mama january 17, 2012 at 12:06 pm leftovers from the night before? or a breakfast type stir fry? (sausage and sweet potatoes are good) reply yoseph september 17, 2014 at 12:05 pm slightly confused by the sweet potato comments in another post you said to not eat them? :s im trying the remineralising your teeth i believe thanks in advance! reply kara january 15, 2012 at 11:08 pm i recently heard of the health benefits of chia seeds…can you let me know your thoughts on these seeds? thanks!! reply gossett december 24, 2011 at 9:16 am i love these ideas and did a grain-free diet for a couple of months last year. i watched excess weight fall off andd i was feeling great! however, it is very difficult to stick with anythng strict when i am having to prepare two separate meals every day,as my dh is an extremely picky eater and is allergic to coconut. the added expense and the extra effort of preparing two meals at one time is overwhelming. reply alisha december 2, 2011 at 4:19 pm thank you so much for sharing so much wonderful information! my husband and i eat very similarly and have been for about 5 years now. i have overcome many health problems from changing my diet like you explain. i do have a question, though. my midwife is a nutritionist and she told me that i shouldn’t eat anything but fruit in the morning because the body is coming off of the night’s fast. she said that the morning is when your body is rebuilding from the cleanse of the night, so we should eat fruit because it’s the easiest to digest and won’t disturb the “rebuilding”. i would love to know your thoughts on this! if you don’t mind sharing? also, on a little side note… my husband has a hard time with sour cream (and we mostly eat raw milk dairy products) and we have found that yogurt is a wonderful substitute for sour cream! i have heard of other people not handling sour cream well, so i thought i would share this info. since it was so helpful for us! thanks! reply dittmar october 22, 2011 at 1:24 pm in august 2011, i got sick with colitis, which i have had on and off since my mid twenties. i was told about the specific carbohydrate diet, which is also a no grain diet. i have been on this diet since mid august. i don’t miss the grains, but i seem to get extremely tired. i had cancer in 2002 and went through treatment and experienced this very same extreme tiredness that i seem to be having on and off on this diet. i would appreciate in recommendations on what or how i should eat on this diet, so i can overcome this crash of energy. reply alisha december 2, 2011 at 4:23 pm hi, hope you don’t mind me butting in… but i just read this and thought i would mention the book the maker’s diet. have you heard of it? it is a 40 diet plan that heals the colon/intestines and digestive tract and has been known to help cure ibs, crone’s disease, and other serious diseases. i know people who have done it and have been completely transformed. he gives food and recipe ideas for you too. hope this is helpful! reply helen august 23, 2012 at 6:46 pm who is the author of “the maker’s diet”? reply jolly january 10, 2014 at 2:56 pm jordan s. rubin reply patty august 23, 2011 at 4:51 am can’t eat almonds, beef, oregano, black pepper, basil, wheat et al., corn, peanuts, oats, paprika and whey. reply lee july 29, 2011 at 5:36 pm hello, i love your blog! can you give us some school lunch idea for our kiddies that are used to eating the traditional sandwich, juice and chips? reply wellness mama july 30, 2011 at 1:01 am this might help some https://wellnessmama.com/2518/lunch-snack-ideas/ but i’ll also be encouraging readers to submit their ideas and post them also during the upcoming 30-day challenge. reply jean july 6, 2011 at 2:48 pm i don’t eat meat, fish or poultry. i do eat eggs and dairy from local farms, though. can you help me? thanks reply wellness mama july 6, 2011 at 4:39 pm if you are trying to stick to a low-carb type diet, it certainly be tough without using any kind of animal sources of protein. eggs are awesome, but unless you are eating them for every meal, you will have to make some conscious efforts to get enough proteins and fats. i’d still recommend avoiding the grains and legumes, though you might need some starchy vegetables just for the density. try using something like fitday.com to track your food intake and see how much protein/fat you are getting. ideally, you want total carbs around 100 grams a day (less if you are trying to lose weight) which will be difficult without the meats. coconut products, especially the oil, are a great source of the saturated fats you aren’t getting from the animal fats, so try adding some coconut oil or some kind of coconut in for at least a couple meals a day. hope that helps some! reply jean november 22, 2014 at 7:19 pm hi! i have really enjoyed reading the information on your blog. i love the meal plan and just have one concern about your carbs recommendation in your above comment. your brain can only use glucose as a fuel and therefore you should get at least 130 carbs a day. the brain cannot use protein or fat for fuel. reply cheryce february 3, 2015 at 12:18 pm hi jean–that isn’t true. in the absence of carbs (the glucose they covert to, rather), your body can and will use fat and protein as fuel. carbs are the body’s preferred fuel source and when they are present, will be burned first. the second choice is fat. in the absence of carbs, our bodies will burn fat next, followed by protein. for this reason, short, quick burst exercises are not effective for people consuming lots of carbs, as the body will burn them first and isn’t going long enough to burn through them and into the fat we really want to lose. so for people who want to burn off the fat, but do so in short, quick burst exercise, like tabats, a diet lower in carbs is really ideal. however, if longer, endurance type exercises are your thing, then having a higher amount of carbs works fine because you’re moving long enough that your body taps into your fat reserves. i hope that is helpful. 🙂 avocados and coconut are an amazing source of healthy fats and i would recommend them over nuts. good luck with whatever your goal is! reply annie september 5, 2011 at 7:10 pm jean…have you ever tried using tempeh as a substitute in traditional meat dishes? it is a nicely textured fermented soy product (so very healthy) and is really tasty in most dishes, ie the stir fry. reply erica march 25, 2015 at 11:27 pm most soy products are latent with gmo’s reply emily june 15, 2011 at 12:52 am this looks fantastic. can’t wait to try! i’ve never seen cream cheese in a stir-fry before…does it just add “body” or more flavor to the ingredients? reply wellness mama june 16, 2011 at 9:19 pm just adds more flavor and makes it more rich… it does add a little body, but not much. reply dani lee october 21, 2013 at 11:39 pm wow…i tried this one, the stir fry shrimp and cream cheese. its the very first one we tried…..”we” meaning i and the rest were all kids….picky little eaters, and all of them loved it, so did i . i was scared to try this dish at first and it was a lovely surprise once i did try it. i didn’t know you could make a stir fry with no noodles that actually fills you up!…we could hardly eat our ice cream after! i am not kidding! reply newer comments » show more comments join the conversation... cancel reply your email address will not be published. please read the comment policy. recipe rating your comment your real name * your email address * don't subscribeallreplies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. you must enable javascript to be able to comment to leave a comment please enable javascript in your browser settings! footer sitemap start here comment policy affiliate disclosure newsletter privacy policy terms of service full disclaimer promo guidelines contact site footer the information on this website has not been evaluated by the fda and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease. by accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the terms of service, full disclaimer, privacy policy, affiliate disclosure, and comment policy. content may not be reproduced in any form. ads provided by cafemedia family & parenting network. displayed ads do not constitute endorsement or recommendation by wellness mama. copyright © 2006–2020 wellness mama® · all rights reserved · sitemap