skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: bathroom create the bathroom you really want with design inspiration, decor tips and remodeling guides. modern bathroom design ideas for private luxury getty images/johner rf shop these products now: bathtub – sink cabinet – handheld shower modern bathroom design is centered around a simple, clean, minimalistic look and feel. think geometric shapes and patterns, clean lines, minimal colors and mid-century… by ada teicu on march 11, 2020 in bathroom 30 quick and easy bathroom decorating ideas if you dread walking into your dated bathroom and dream of a change, we’ve got a fresh list of bathroom decorating ideas that are inexpensive and simple to do. the most important project you can do for a bathroom makeover is a lighting upgrade. a swedish study found that… by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in bathroom what is a transitional bathroom and how can you get this look? the transitional bathroom is the most popular bathroom design style, according to the 2019 bathroom design trends report by the national kitchen + bath association. and according to trend spotter elle h-millard, industry relations manager at the nkba (and also a cast member on season… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in bathroom 2019 bathroom trends: what’s in and what’s out kitchens might be the heart of the home, but bathrooms are definitely the muscle. after all, which room in your home has to double as a dog wash and a makeup station? of course, making your bathroom one of your favorite rooms in your house has as much to do… by jae curtis on march 4, 2020 in bathroom how to share a bathroom (and keep the peace) as far as house drama goes, the bathroom has got to be one of the most common key players. with real estate at a premium and more people than bathrooms, sharing can definitely land you in hot water — and not the soothing kind. by jae curtis on march 4, 2020 in bathroom designing the perfect kids’ bathroom as a child, i was fortunate enough to have my own bathroom (actually, it was a jack and jill bathroom that i shared with the guest bedroom, but we only had guests for a handful of days out of the year). my bathroom was pink, which my parents thought was… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in bathroom how to reduce moisture in the bathroom if you have moisture in the bathroom, below are several ways to make sure your bathroom is staying as dry as possible. and even if you don’t have current visible moisture issues, you can still prevent future problems and keep your bathroom feeling less humid with these tips. by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in bathroom water closets: essential or a waste of bathroom space? when you’re designing a bathroom, you’re probably going to view the 2019 trends in bathroom technology and the latest faucet trends for inspiration. a water closet is another bathroom feature that is popular among some homeowners — but it’s considered unnecessary by others. by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in bathroom undermount, wall mount, drop in, vessel, pedestal — all about bathroom sinks bathroom sinks come in a dizzying array of styles. not that we’re complaining. if you’re anything like us, you love that kid-in-a-candy-store feeling. but unlike candy, which is inexpensive and quickly consumed, once you purchase a sink, it’s going to be in your bathroom for a while. so you need… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in bathroom 15 of the best open design showers one of the popular ways to get a sleek, modern bathroom is to opt for an open design shower. as the name suggests, these showers are typically fully open to the rest of the bathroom, or at least only partially covered. many are even simply behind clear glass partitions. this… by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in bathroom 1 2 … 6 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss