home u.k. news sports u.s. showbiz australia femail health science money video travel columnists dailymailtv latest headlines u.k. showbiz oscars love island headlines arts blogs video games my profile logout login feedback friday, mar 27th 2020 4pm 44°f 7pm 42°f 5-day forecast advertisement show ad baz bamigboye for the daily mail's recent articles baz bamigboye: no time to spy. even james bond is on coronavirus lockdown 27/03/20 00:55 baz bamigboye has the latest on the new james bond flick no times to die, thandie newton's thoughts on westworld season three and chats with jacqueline wilson about the new film four kids and it, which stars michael caine and russell brand. ...read baz bamigboye: judi dench would gladly see a female secret agent on the big screen... as long as they don't play 007 because he's james bond 19/03/20 23:55 baz bamigboye: the great dame (left), who herself pulled off a gender switch when she was cast as mi6 spymaster m in 1995's goldeneye, told me she was strongly opposed to 007 swapping sex and being played by a woman. 'no,' she said firmly. 'bond ought not to be a woman because, essentially, that kind of model - bond as a woman - was not in the writing.' dench said she thought someone should 'create a character, for a female agent to play front and centre, that's nothing to do with fleming, and not make bond a woman. is that clear?!' perfectly. top right: dame judi with daniel craig in skyfall (2012); bottom right, with pierce brosnan in 1999's the world is not enough. ...read baz bamigboye: dame judi dench cheers us all up with her blithe spirit in new film adaption of noel coward's classic 12/03/20 22:54 baz bamigboye: judi dench (pictured) declared that we could all do with some 'levity' and 'cheering up'. the great dame enters that spirit with a deliciously comic masterclass as clairvoyant madame arcati in a new film version of noel coward's 1941 dark comedy blithe spirit. it features charles condomine, a playboy novelist who invites the eccentric medium to conduct a seance which inadvertently conjures up elvira, the writer's first wife. the marvellous conceit is that the husband is the only person who can see the ghost. 'the secret is,' judi told me, 'that madame arcati certainly believes in herself and her powers, though she exaggerates one thing.' ...read march 2020 baz bamigboye: sir elton john ramps up plans for his next musical about us tv preacher tammy faye bakker baz bamigboye: tom jones is in talks to join production team working on a stage musical featuring his songs february 2020 baz bamigboye: edgy aaron taylor- johnson is getting dark and twisted baz bamigboye: be afraid - the shining's jack torrance is back... live, in the flesh, and on stage baz bamigboye: kristin scott thomas called on her two iraq veteran brothers for background on new film military wives baz bamigboye: anne-marie duff gets tough as she will have central matriarchal role in new play the house of shades baz bamigboye: kate fleetwood to play cruella de vil in new musical at open air theatre in regent's park which featured in 101 dalmations baz bamigboye: has bradley cooper got a touch of night fever? actor is asked to play barry gibb in bee gees movie baz bamigboye: jennifer lawrence joins the new york mafia in new movie role as female mobster my night with renee zellweger, the oscar queen who is ready to roll again: baz bamigboye talks to the academy award-winning actress about her career comeback, her revered role as judy garland, and loving life in london... british stars including jonathan pryce and sir anthony hopkins are hoping for a night of oscar glory, writes baz bamigboye baz bamigboye: is the crown's next step to go back in time? writer peter morgan wants to pen new show set before the reign of queen elizabeth ii baz bamigboye: prince william's fury at the lack of diversity among this year's bafta nominees after acting category name only white stars january 2020 baz bamigboye: have i got news for you... paul merton can't sing or dance but he's heading for hairspray baz bamigboye: no chance of a female bond, but blake's a very lively action hero in the rhythm section baz bamigboye: jamie foxx and michael b. jordan team up and fight for justice in gritty death row drama baz bamigboye: keira knightley's new rom-com needs a hunky brit to play the oscar-nominated actress's husband page 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 next bing site web enter search term: search like dailymail follow dailymail follow @dailymail follow dailymail follow mailonline follow daily mail advertisement get the tv&showbiz rss feed rss my yahoo! feedly more rss feeds... today's headlines most read ashley banjo's wife francesca abbott gives birth to their second child as couple welcome baby son micah grace to the world in sweet snap 'this pic makes me happy': kylie jenner shares adorable snap of daughter stormi beaming in a bubble bath after urging fans to 'stay home' amid coronavirus pandemic ed westwick steps out for a run with model girlfriend tamara francesconi as they isolate together amid coronavirus pandemic ewan mcgregor spends time with his daughters and girlfriend mary elizabeth winstead in santa monica amid coronavirus pandemic made in chelsea's heloise agostinelli, 21, reveals she has been diagnosed with coronavirus as she shares picture of herself sunbathing in mask and gloves while quarantined in miami exclusive 'i've become the laziest b***h ever!' jesy nelson admits she's ditched her healthy diet and fitness regime amid covid-19 isolation amanda holden wows in a leather midi skirt while co-host ashley roberts opts for a flirty floral dress as they head to work amid covid-19 pandemic doctors turns 20: how the medical soap gave the likes of fleabag's phoebe waller-bridge, got star emilia clarke and the crown's claire foy their first acting break during two decades on the bbc 'it's so cheesy': stacey dooley claims she resisted falling victim to strictly's love curse and wasn't romantic with kevin clifton for a long time because she wanted to be 'cooler than that' megan mckenna pens powerful anthem fightcovid19 amid global pandemic... as she urges fans to 'be brave, wash hands and follow her lead' in battle against killer virus phillip schofield's wife stephanie marks her 56th birthday in quarantine as she enjoys buck's fizz breakfast with the tv star and their two daughters more headlines halsey flaunts her trim and toned bikini body on instagram as she gives fans a 'quarantine update'... amid evan peters breakup rumors kristin cavallari offers another sultry snap and discounts to her clothing lines... one day after facing backlash for business tactics amid coronavirus crisis law & order vet elisabeth rohm, 45, 'calls off her engagement' to california judge jonathan colby... a year after he presented her with a big diamond ring carson daly announces the arrival of baby number four as he shares photo of newborn daughter goldie resting in the arms of wife siri 'i will f**k you up!' kim and kourtney engage in a fist fight... with bottles thrown and slaps issued before khloe is forced to separate the brawl in explosive kuwtk season premiere hannah ann sluss steps out for some fresh air in short-shorts ... after she deleted all photos of her ex-fiance peter weber on instagram as he was spotted with kelley flanagan tia mowry gets teary eyed as she admits not being able to see her family has been the 'hardest part' of quarantining: 'we're all very close' rapper scarface reveals he was in the hospital while suffering from covid-19: 'i couldn't breathe' mama june emerges at a food bank in florida after her daughters accuse her of ignoring their phone calls superman actor dean cain, 53, who was on lois & clark in the '90s, makes a rare sighting in la as he wears mechanix gloves to pick up groceries kourtney kardashian's son mason, 10, goes live on tiktok after she and scott disick deleted his instagram most read in detail new articleshometop back to top home u.k. news sports u.s. showbiz australia femail health science money video travel columnists dailymailtv sitemap archive video archive topics index mobile apps screensaver rss text-based site reader prints our papers top of page daily mail mail on sunday this is money metro jobsite mail travel zoopla.co.uk prime location published by associated newspapers ltd part of the daily mail, the mail on sunday & metro media group dmg media contact us how to complain leadership team advertise with us contributors work with us terms do not sell my info privacy policy & cookies advertisement advertisement advertisement advertisement