evernote uses cookies to enable the evernote service and to improve your experience with us. to learn more, check out our cookie policy. by clicking ok or continuing to use our site, you agree that we can place these cookies. ok click "ok" to return to yinxiang.com ok evernote plans basic take great notes premium unclutter your life business bring your team together compare plans find the evernote solution that fits your needs features sync and organize keep your notes handy web clipper a save button for the web templates make better notes, faster pdf & doc search find information anywhere spaces bring your team together search handwriting find text in any note document scanning go paperless with evernote integrations connect your favorite apps help & learning about us about us learn about the company careers opportunities at evernote why evernote save, sync and share it all contact us need help? get in touch download or log in evernote download or log in plans basic premium business compare plans features sync and organize web clipper templates pdf & doc search spaces search handwriting document scanning integrations help & learning about us about us why evernote careers contact us evernote premium organize your work. unclutter your life. your projects and day-to-day tasks run more smoothly with evernote premium. $9.99 / month start free trial turn your “to-do list” into a “done list” untether yourself capture and access everything that matters on all of your devices, even when you’re offline. find information fast from projects and meetings to receipts and personal papers, they’re always at your fingertips. stay organized attach emails, office & google docs, pdfs, business cards, images, and handwritten notes. get more done with practically unlimited space, rich formatting, and the ability to share or present your notes with one click, you’ll have everything you need to move your work forward. control freaks welcome a notebook for every project? tags for all occasions? sort notes the way that works best for you, or use advanced search to find what you need fast! a moodboard for your life use your mobile device to save inspiration from anywhere—photos, audio clips, voice notes, videos, and web pages. keep it all in evernote and turn those ideas into action. available on the app store get it on google play work from anywhere stay in sync from any device, no matter where you are—you can even access notes when you have no wifi or mobile data access. give your business the freedom to focus with evernote. get a free 30-day trial and custom onboarding of evernote business with as few as two people. learn about evernote business ask the experts evernote’s global community has over 10 years of experience helping evernote customers. let them help you to find your focus and do better work. discover templates find new ways to use evernote and speed up common tasks. read the article→ all in one place nine ways to make evernote your go-to tool for organizing your life. read the article→ productive meetings what you can do to avoid back-to-back, unproductive meetings every single day. read the article→ organize like a boss and make evernote your study hub. annotate pdfs, save and search handwritten notes, and connect across different apps. learn more product why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features web clipper templates spaces integrations notes sync pdf & doc search search handwriting document scanning notebooks & tags community our community certified consultants beta program developers events forum support help & learning troubleshooting blog company about us careers contact us sign up or log in choose a language: english (us) bahasa indonesia bahasa melayu dansk deutsch english (us) español español (américa latina) français italiano nederlands polski português (brasil) português (portugal) suomi svenska tiếng việt türkçe русский العربية ภาษาไทย 한국어 中文（简体） 中文（繁體） 日本語 facebook twitter medium instagram youtube linkedin © 2020 evernote corporation. all rights reserved. security legal privacy