bean sprouts one family's search for the good life showing posts with label drawing. show all posts showing posts with label drawing. show all posts monday, november 03, 2008 portrait of tom my sister steph has gone home. we always have a great time when she's here. this time we spent a lot of time celebrating hallowe'en - decorating the house, carving pumpkins, organising costumes and face-painting for everyone, children and grown-ups. we made mock pumpkin soup and stuffed squash. we got together with our other sister, lindsey and her husband andrew and had a lot of fun. we also painted some of tom's warhammer miniatures - his latest hobby is fantasy wargaming. but mainly we did art. steph taught me to use soft chalk pastels. i'd never used them at all before she arrived. i did a number of drawings with the pastels under steph's guidance, but i'm happiest with this one of tom. in fact, i've framed it and hung it in the living room. posted by melanie rimmer at 1:43 pm 18 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: drawing, family sunday, october 26, 2008 sunday funny sorry i didn't post yesterday. i haven't vanished again. but my sister steph has arrived for a visit over half term. we've been learning to draw in pastels (well i've been learning, steph is already very good at it), decorating the house for hallowe'en, shopping for our brother-in-law andrew's birthday presents (happy birthday andrew!) and generally having lots of fun. since it's sunday, here are some funnies: after an exhaustive three year study, scientists at the university of the isle of dogs, east london, (uidel) have discovered what they think could be the real cause of global warming - people all over the world hanging out their washing to dry writes special washing correspondent barry rooster. the boffins say that when freshly-laundered clothes - especially whites and light coloureds - are hung on washing lines, they reflect the sun's rays upwards, leading to an increase in the greenhouse effect. head of research gunther smallpiece comments: "we've previously been told to reduce the temperature on our washing machines to save electricity, but this is fact counter-effective. we will recommend to the government that the population use the full drying cycle on their machines, instead of hanging the garments outside in the fresh air". and he goes further: "this is so serious, we'd like to see hanging washing outdoors to be banned in the same way as smoking indoors.""we'd like to see it become, if you like, a 'hanging offence'!", he jokes, proving conclusively that even dull scientists do have a sense of humour. from the spoof. cartoon from throbgoblins. click on the panel to read the whole strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 1:46 pm 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: drawing, family, funny wednesday, october 22, 2008 sad news on saturday i spent some time in the garden sketching things in charcoal, including the chickens. they all seemed fine. on sunday i got dressed up in old jeans with holes in them, an old faded t-shirt, marigold gloves, headscarf and wellys (with a fetching cow-skin print) and went to clean out the chicken coop and run. it's a mucky job, and long overdue this time, but satisfying. i spotted one of the new rhode island reds lying in the run, apparently dead. she moved a little when i went to investigate, but shortly afterwards she did expire. i don't know what was wrong with her. she had seemed fine the day before. all the other chickens are healthy and well except for a mite infestation, which is why i went out to clean the housing and treat it. anyway mites on a chicken are like fleas on a dog - they're annoying but not lethal. there was no sign that anything had got into the run or harmed her. she was only 18 months old. we have two older chickens, both hybrid layers, which we got at the same time and have always got along well with each other. then we got two rhodies in january, and they were pals with each other but the older girls bullied them a bit. well whilst i was cleaning the hen house, the surviving rhodie went over to her dead sister, lowered her head to her and made soft clucking noises. i don't think we should anthropomorphise animals (anyway, they don't like it), but it was impossible not to interpret it as saying something like "elsie? are you ok? elsie, what's the matter? get up!" and she pecked at the dead bird a couple of times as if prodding her to move. i buried her at the back of a flower bed. i might pop a few spring bulbs on top later. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:33 am 17 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: chickens, drawing, permaculture, self sufficiency older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ▼ 2012 (1) ▼ february (1) happy valentine's day, ed ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.