bean sprouts one family's search for the good life showing posts with label movies. show all posts showing posts with label movies. show all posts tuesday, january 22, 2008 more apparently it's been available on youtube for about a year, and was made ten years ago, but i've only just stumbled across this amazing animated short film by mark osborne. it's beautiful, with an atmospheric soundtrack, and it's only 6 minutes long: the academy-award®nominated animated short-film tells the story of a lonely inventor, whose colorless existence is brightened only by dreams of the carefree bliss of his youth.by day, he is trapped in a dehumanizing job in a joyless world. but by night, he tinkers away on a visionary invention, desperate to translate his inspiration into something meaningful.when his invention is complete, it will change the way people see the world. but he will find that success comes at a high price, as it changes himself, as well. to me it says that there will never be a gadget that finally makes us happy, there is no gizmo waiting to be invented that will make our lives seem ok. the pursuit of technological answers to a humdrum stress-filled life is in fact what is making our lives stress-filled and humdrum. the real way to be happy is something you can't buy - after all, children know how even though they have no money, and even though they live in the same grey built environment we do. but i suspect different people will read different messages in it, and that's what makes it such a powerful film. what does it mean to you? posted by melanie rimmer at 1:10 pm 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: movies, philosophy saturday, april 28, 2007 an inconvenient truth i finally got round to watching an inconvenient truth last night. it's everything it's cracked up to be. if i say it's a 90-minute long lecture you won't want to watch it, but oh boy, i wish lectures were like this when i was at college, with shorts made by the futurama team, jokes that are genuinely funny (unlike the jokes my lecturers made, and i'm afraid probably the jokes i make in my own lectures) and gripping movie clips. i love the way gore argues that acknowledging and acting on the reality of man-made climate change is not a political issue, it is a moral imperative. and i love the way his message is one of hope. at the end of the movie is a fabulous sequence - he has just convinced his audience (if they had any doubt before) of the reality and the seriousness of the problems we face. then he lists all the amazing achievements of humanity - we fixed the hole in the ozone layer, we defeated fascism, we brought down communism, we ended the cold war, we put men on the moon, all by international co-operation. illustrated with a montage of newsreel clips and probably accompanied by stirring music (i wasn't concentrating on the music), it makes you feel gosh darned proud to be human. really. and then he mentions that we already have all the technology needed to solve climate change too. the only thing lacking is the political will to do so. the credits roll, listing a score of ways you can help - all simple like writing to your mp, changing your lightbulbs, or encouraging others to watch the movie. i encourage you to watch the movie, especially if you still have any lingering doubt about whether man made climate change is real or not. it doesn't beat you around the head with stuff you've heard already. there was much in it that was new to me, and i consider myself fairly well-informed about this topic. it genuinely takes on the concerns of the sceptics and answers them. it's also entertaining. and it's on sky box office (the pay-per-view section of sky) at the moment, or you can search for cinemas showing it. posted by melanie rimmer at 8:51 am 5 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: activism, movies thursday, march 29, 2007 top ten movies about self-sufficient living out of africa - how could you not love a movie that opens with the line "i had a farm in africa at the foot of the ngong hills"? the land girls - tractors, sex, and feminine bonding witness - i love the amish barn-raising scene in particular cold mountain - fabulous performance from renee zellweger getting stuck into vegetable-growing the outlaw josey wales - one of my very favourite movies ever, and they all settle down on their homestead in the end. perfect little women (the one with susan sarandon) - a very creditable adaptation of a classic book chicken run - remake of "the great escape" with claymation chickens from the makers of wallace and gromit signs - spooky crop circles oklahoma! - a movie about farming with songs you can hum. they don't make 'em like this anymore how to make an american quilt - feel-good chick flick with a great stoner granny, but for god's sake girl, stop dragging the quilt in the mud at the end of the film! posted by melanie rimmer at 8:18 am 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: gardening, movies, self sufficiency friday, november 24, 2006 barnyard movie you don't want to go and see a science fiction movie with me. or a technological thriller. i'm the kind of person who ruins movies like that by complaining that the science is wrong. you couldn't really destroy an alien civilisation with a virus written on an apple mac, the whole northern hemisphere couldn't freeze up by the day after tomorrow, an overdose of gamma rays wouldn't turn a mild-mannered scientist into the hulk, it would simply kill him. but now i've discovered a whole other class of movies i can't bear to watch - those which feature gardening and agriculture. i can believe the impossible (talking animals don't bother me, for example) but not the improbable or the downright ignorant and so i shall not be joining the family to watch barnyard: "barnyard" is a lighthearted tale centering around otis, a carefree party cow, who enjoys singing, dancing and playing tricks on humans. if otis is a "he", he's a bull not a cow and he certainly doesn't have udders. i'm not trying to ruin your movie mr oedekerk, just draw him as a bull or bullock and leave out the udders. anyway, gary larson's take on the same idea was funnier. posted by melanie rimmer at 5:22 pm 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: movies older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ▼ 2012 (1) ▼ february (1) happy valentine's day, ed ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.