bean sprouts one family's search for the good life showing posts with label foraging. show all posts showing posts with label foraging. show all posts thursday, august 14, 2008 hedgerow wine hedgerow wine, 2007 vintage. a ripe blackberry nose with overtones of elderberry and haws leaving a damson finish on the palate with just a hint of sloes. this isn't nonsense wine-journo-speak, it's because it is made from blackberries, elderberries, haws, damson and sloes. quaffable, and outstanding in its price bracket of about 20p/bottle. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 15 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: brewing, drinks, foraging friday, april 18, 2008 wild blackberry leaf tea spring is springing and new leaves are starting to grow on shrubs and trees. some of them make tasty herbal tea, so i went out foraging with my 4-year-old niece rebecca for wild blackberry leaves. you don't want to accidentally pick the wrong thing, and leaves are a bit trickier to identify than berries, especially when they're young. so this is perhaps a project for experienced foragers. if you already have your favourite blackberrying spots and you are confident you can identify the correct plants then you'll be fine. but if you haven't foraged before, wait until the late summer or autumn and then go looking for blackberries. there's nothing in the uk that looks anything like a blackberry that might do you any harm, so it's a great first foraging project. remember the locations of the plants. have a good look at the leaves and the stems and become familiar with them. then pick wild blackberry leaf tea next spring. you want to pick the bunches of young leaves as they emerge. you don't need gloves - you're not going to mess around with the thorny stems. just grasp the leaves and tug them off. don't strip all the young leaves off a single stem. you don't want to kill the plant, although brambles (wild blackberry plants) are devilishly tough and could probably survive. but it's good foraging etiquette to just take a couple of bunches of leaves from each stem and then move along. rebecca and i picked maybe half-a-pint to a pint of bramble leaves before going home. actually rebecca only picked one leaf, then ran off and picked some daisies and dandelions for her mum, leaving me to do all the work. i didn't mind, really. you make wild blackberry leaf tea almost the same way you make ordinary tea - pour boiling water over and steep. there are only two differences. the first difference is that you use more fresh leaves than you could fit in a tea bag. how much leaves for a cup? i'm afraid that's the same sort of question as how long is a piece of string? about yay much. if you use more it will be stronger. less and it will be weaker. but at any rate, use a lot more than the teaspoon or so you would use of dried leaves. i usually about half fill my tea pot with leaves (not packed, just loosely dropped in) then top it up with boiling water. if you only want to make a single cup, half fill your tea cup with leaves and fill with water. the second difference is that you steep for longer than you would steep normal tea. i'd steep blackberry leaf tea at least half an hour. i've also steeped it a lot longer than that - even a few hours. this time i steeped a jug full for about an hour or so, drank a cup, left the rest steeping overnight, then strained the cold tea into a smaller jug and put it in my fridge. it's nice hot or cold. i like it better with honey than without. you wouldn't usually add milk, but hey, if you like it that way it's your cup of tea. if you can collect loads of leaves you can dry them and drink wild blackberry leaf tea all year long. after spring the leaves become darker and tougher and don't make such nice tea. but i enjoy it as a spring treat, a fresh taste of the first new greenness of the year. update: a reader has reported developing a rash after using this tea. i know that many commercially available herb teas contain blackberry leaves without bearing any warnings, and i can't find any warnings about allergic reactions to blackberry leaves on the internet or in the foraging books i have. i suppose it's possible to have a reaction to anything - i know someone who is allergic to apples but i don't post allergy warnings with apple recipes. if you've never tried blackberry tea before, don't overdo it the first time, and be on the lookout for allergic reactions. i should reemphasise that you must never eat anything you've foraged unless you are totally 100% positive you have identified it correctly. posted by melanie rimmer at 12:12 pm 15 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: drinks, family, foraging, frugal, recipes, self sufficiency thursday, december 13, 2007 2007 retrospective 2007 was the year it rained. non-stop. we had a lovely warm spring, but in may it began to rain and it didn't stop until august. this had a bad effect on our fruit and vegetable growing. although some crops did well, others suffered either directly from the wet, or indirectly from the slugs and snails and our failure to go to the allotment as often as we should. we got two colonies of bees from ally of ducking for apples, but they went berserk and attacked all my neighbours, so i had to move them to an apiary a few miles away. we haven't taken any honey from them this year. due to the weather the bees weren't able to forage as much nectar so their honey stores by the end of the season were low. but our own foraging efforts were pretty good as the weather dried up somewhat in the autumn. we made beer, which exploded, several batches of wine which aren't ready yet, and lots of different types of liqueur. i became interested in ginger beer, and made a yeast-culture ginger beer plant from scratch. i later learned that real ginger beer is made using an authentic symbiotic culture called ginger beer plant. so i got one of those and now have my own continuous ginger beer production line. i picked wild mushrooms for the first time in my life. i cooked and ate them and didn't die. which was nice. i haven't had any success identifying other types of mushrooms in my area, though, so i've left them alone. the ginger beer got me interested in other useful microbial cultures, and so i started making sourdough bread using wild yeast rather than packets of dried yeast from the shop. there are other types of useful culture, such as kefir and tibicos, and i'd like to try those in future. i'll be glad when 2007 is over, just because of the ghastly weather we've had all year. the rain has been heavy again in november and december, and often when i've been out driving i've had to slow right down to go around puddles that cross both lanes of a dual carriageway. there are what look like ponds in the middle of many fields which should be dry, but they have had a standing puddle so long the grass underneath must be dead by now. i know there's no logical reason to imagine that on 1st january 2008, the sun will come out and everything will be different. but psychologically it feels like it might. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:08 am 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: allotment, bees, brewing, cultures, drinks, family, food, foraging, gardening, self sufficiency tuesday, october 16, 2007 'shrooming i picked some more shaggy ink cap mushrooms from the field at the end of the road. i also found three other types of mushroom, but i could only identify one. the one i'm pretty sure of is a little japanese umbrella (shown top left). it's supposed to be edible but they're so titchy it's hardly worth the bother. they're also really pretty (my blurry photo doesn't do it justice) so i'm happy just to admire them where they are. i also saw lots of these little white mushrooms (centre right). they were perhaps a couple of inches across, pure white caps and gills, the gills running down the stem like a chanterelle. again, my photo is poor - the gills are quite widely spaced and they fork. some of the caps had a smooth round edge but some had a "toothed" appearance where the cap had begun to decay leaving the gills sticking out. since i didn't know what they were i left them alone. the last type of mushroom i saw (bottom left) might have been almost any type of large brown mushroom. they were so degraded it was hard to tell. they were the largest mushrooms i saw, about four inches across. there were a fair few of these, and they must have been pretty substantial before they started to rot away. so if they are edible they'd be very worthwhile to collect. it's not very satisfactory standing in a field trying to flick through a large book comparing pictures without any clue how to narrow down the options. a few times i thought i had a candidate only to learn that the type of mushroom pictured only occurs in birch forests in the spring, not in fields in the autumn. or a picture that looked very similar in the book turned out to be a super-magnified close-up of a mushroom that is millimetres across, not a few inches like the mushroom i am looking at. so if any more knowledgeable readers can suggest what these mushrooms might be, if i spot them again i'll try to compare them to that suggestion. i know you can't identify mushrooms by a picture only, so i won't do anything stupid like eat them just on the basis of some stranger on the internet saying "they look like chicken-of-the-woods to me". but it would give me a point to start. at the moment i am floundering. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:45 am 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: foraging tuesday, october 02, 2007 weed of the week - nettle does anyone really need a photo or a description to help them identify stinging nettles? i tell you what; if you're unsure whether a plant is a stinging nettle or not, brush up against it. if it hurts, it is one. stop whimpering. find yourself a dock leaf and crush the juice into the sting, it'll soon relieve the pain. nettles don't form such deep root systems as docks and so are easier to remove in that sense. however you have to wear gloves and a long-sleeved shirt made of fairly thick material, otherwise you'll end up with very sore hands and arms. but once you've pulled them up, you can throw them on the compost heap, make weed tea, or put them to many other uses. i love to make them into delicious soup. i've also made them into soap. the least application of heat and their stings are totally disarmed - i saw ray mears on tv wilt them by holding them directly over a fire, and then he ate them. they're best in the spring; once summer gets well advanced they seem to become gritty, however well you wash them. you can also make nettle beer, apparently, by boiling 2lb of nettles with the rind of 2 lemons and 1 gallon of water for 15 minutes. strain into a container and add the juice of the 2 lemons, 1lb of sugar and 1oz cream of tartar. when cool, add 1oz yeast and leave in a covered container in a warm place for 3 days. then strain into bottles, cork down and wire, and leave for 1 week before drinking. i've never tried this recipe, which comes from marguerite patten's out-of-print book 500 recipes for home-made wines and drinks, but next spring i'll give it a go. there's even a website dedicated to nettle appreciation, where you can read about the importance of nettles to native british wildlife, and the uses of nettles as food, medicine, clothing (eep!) and in the garden. i wouldn't go that far, but i feel more kindly towards nettles than i do towards docks, for example. not so kindly that i won't rip them out of my allotment when i find them. but kindly enough to appreciate the patch in the farmer's field behind our house. they're a useful resource, as long as they're growing on somebody else's land, not mine. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:25 am 9 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: allotment, biodiversity, drinks, food, foraging, gardening friday, september 28, 2007 food for free review i really enjoyed reading richard mabey's food for free whilst curled up in my favourite armchair. it is organised season-by-season so you can see what is potentially available at any time of year. i flicked straight to the "autumn" section to see what is available now, although some things are available for more than one season - dandelions, for example, and some kinds of mushrooms. other plants offer different things at different times of year. elder trees, for example, are listed under spring, because the flowers can be picked then, but not under summer when the berries ripen. there are lots of full colour photos, but many of them are not large enough or clear enough to allow you to identify the plant (or fungus etc.) if you are not already familiar with it. it should show you clear illustrations of the leaves, the flowers and the fruit. i don't think it would be a very practical field guide, but i don't think it is trying to be - it is too large a book anyway. so you'll still need a fungus field guide, a tree guide and a wildflower/plant field guide to figure out exactly what to pick. food for free contains some recipes, but it's not really a cookery book either. for one thing, i wouldn't want to splash ingredients or scribble recipe adjustments on its lovely pages (i tend to abuse my recipe books somewhat) and there is no separate recipe index. it doesn't seem to want to open flat either, an essential quality in a cookbook if you ask me. i sound like i'm coming down quite hard on it, but i don't mean to. the book has many great features. for example, it is very extensive, covering not only the widespread and bountiful forage such as dandelion leaves and blackberries, but also rare things such as truffles and early purple orchids. i notice that there is a collins gem version. i wonder how it differs from the large lavish paperback version i've got? because i think what's really needed is 3 different books - a field guide to edible wild plants and fungus, a cookbook for them, and an armchair book. this is the armchair version. now where are the other two? posted by melanie rimmer at 12:45 pm 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: books, food, foraging wednesday, september 26, 2007 shaggy ink cap i've never picked wild mushrooms before, but i have often noticed distinctive mushrooms on the field at the end of the road. i looked them up and learned that they are shaggy ink-cap mushrooms. they're good to eat, and almost impossible to mistake for anything else. i promised myself that when i saw them again, i'd try them. i picked one today and had it in an omelette for my lunch. it was tasty - just mushroom-y i suppose. if someone else had cooked it and given it to me, i might never have noticed it wasn't made with ordinary mushrooms from the shop. but knowing i had identified and picked it myself a few hundred yards away (and combined it with eggs from my own chickens and parsley from the garden) it made a more satisfying lunch than your average mushroom omelette. posted by melanie rimmer at 12:53 pm 8 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: food, foraging sunday, september 16, 2007 review: fruits of the hedgerow i picked up charlotte popescu's "fruits of the hedgerow" in my local garden centre, which was kind of ironic. our allotment harvest has been poor this year. the best harvest has been hedgerow forage. the book covers 17 different british wild fruits, nuts and seeds. each variety has a short description and then a plethora of recipes such as quince muffins, lemon and elderflower syllabub and hazelnut ice cream. i was particularly attracted by the recipes for rowanberries and haws, which grow profusely near me but which i've never gathered before because i didn't know how to use them. there are no illustrations in the book, and this is a serious drawback. what does a medlar look like anyway? even in black and white, a line drawing of the tree/bush, of the fruit and leaves, would have been invaluable. but this book assumes that you can already identify the fruits, you just need some recipes for them. i'm looking forward to trying some of the recipes in this book, if i can tear myself away from just using them to make wine. posted by melanie rimmer at 2:20 pm 11 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: books, food, foraging, trees sunday, september 09, 2007 smells like a brewery in here... steph's here (i know she was just here a fortnight ago but she liked it so much she came back), so we've been busy as usual. steph instructed ed to make a shelf to store preserves and things, which he did (i'll show you pictures another time). we made five gallons of tea wine, five gallons of beer (from a kit, i don't know how to make beer from scratch yet but i'd love to learn). we sorted all the stored potatoes out and removed those which had become rotten. let me tell you, rotten potatoes smell really foul. and we picked about ten pounds of mixed hedgerow fruit - damsons, elderberries, blackberries, sloes, haws and apples - to make 5 gallons of hedgerow wine. we met our new neighbours, who told us to help ourselves to all the apples, pears, damsons and greengages we want from their garden. another neighbour provided some empty beer and wine bottles from her recycling bin (we had to do some fancy footwork to explain why we were eyeing up her bin - she initially thought we were accusing her of crimes against recycling, or perhaps of having a drink problem). and we had a gorgeous lamb casserole with our own pink fir apple potatoes and roasted mystery summer squash, and drank lots of beer - well we'll need the bottles to bottle our own beer when it's ready! cartoon from climatecartoons.org. click on the picture to enlarge. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:35 am 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: brewing, construction, drinks, family, food, foraging, friends, frugal, house, preserving, self sufficiency sunday, june 03, 2007 good king henry you may be wondering why it says "now picking - good king henry" in the right-hand sidebar. good king henry is a common weed that grows prolifically on our allotment. it's a friendly type of weed, though. annual and shallow-rooted, it's easy to get rid of if you want to (unlike the couch grass, ground elder, bindweed, docks and dandelions that plague us). it's also tasty when picked young and used in salads or lightly cooked like spinach. posted by melanie rimmer at 7:51 am 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: allotment, food, foraging, permaculture wednesday, april 18, 2007 interview with andy and dave from selfsufficientish.com one of my favourite websites is selfsufficientish.com, the fabulous online resource for urban self-sufficiency run by twin brothers dave and andy hamilton. they both agreed to answer my questions about self sufficiency. bean-sprouts: how did you first get interested in self-sufficiency? andy: as a child i remember making nettle soup and picking blackberries. we also had some apple trees in the back garden and a small veggie patch. as i have got older it has been more about asking myself "can i do that instead of buying it?" when the answer is yes - whether it be growing my own veggies or making a fridge - then i will give it a go. for me it is about under-consumption, trying to live as gently on the planet as possible. food miles make up for a lot of the carbon emissions and by growing my own and promoting growing your own i believe this can make a difference to the amount of fuel used. dave: my childhood experiences were of course very similar to andy’s. not long after living at home i moved to a house with rhubarb and nettles growing in abundance in the back yard. the garden was tiny but i was still amazed by the amount i got from these two crops without having to do very much (not even sowing the seed). some years after that i experimented with growing some herbs then branched out to growing potatoes. the following year i was living in oxford and had my first full size garden veggie patch. despite the garden being over shadowed by trees on all sides i got a bumper crop of carrots, courgettes, parsnips, potatoes and in the following spring purple sprouting broccoli. this soon got me hooked and i launched into a two year experiment of growing the majority of my own food. this was a partial success as i managed to put something on the table every day for a year. since then i have always grown something and am constantly improving my wild food knowledge. bean-sprouts: what are you totally self-sufficient in? andy: i am totally self-sufficient in some herbs such as chives, rosemary, parsley and fennel. this year i am going to up the ante and introduce some more of the lesser grown herbs such as hyssop and chervil. last summer i was almost totally self sufficient in vegetables. my food bill for myself and my girlfriend was around £5 a week. it would have been well into the springtime this year if my freezer had not packed up, although i still have beetroot both stored and pickled and a load of jam. i am moving towards self-sufficiency in booze also, with a brew on the go almost all of the time and some stored up. i would say that every week of the year i have something that i have grown. i hope to store a lot more this year so that every meal i can have at least one thing on my plate that i have grown. i also tend to forage for mushrooms and other wild foods. if i find the time i dry my mushrooms, which keep for about a year. it depends on what you call self sufficient for other areas in my life as i cook all my meals from scratch, own a bike not a car and mend clothes instead of buying new ones. i intend to make a solar hot water heater and solar ovens when the weather picks up. i hope to be self-sufficient in hot water for washing up and for some meals as a result. dave: it depends on the time of year for me. by the end of this month (march) i will be self-sufficient in salad greens and this year have planted enough fruit to be self-sufficient between at least june and october. this is my first year on my allotment in bristol so all going well it will be from summer this year then ongoing that i will be self-sufficient in most of my food. i decided not to buy seed trays this year as i am recycling old yogurt pots, mushroom and drinks containers for my seedlings so i am also self-sufficient in those. similarly i would have made enough compost to be self-sufficient in that soon. i intend to build a shed from scrap material at the allotment and will be harvesting rain water from the roof for my crops. i’m also reusing my bath water at home in my third floor flat for my seedlings. a handful of other things myself and andy do to be a little more self-sufficient (or self-sufficientish) · a by-weekly forage in bristol (sometimes more often in mushroom season) · both of us own a solar phone charger · my desk top computer is made from salvaged parts. · andy makes bikes from salvaged parts · making own cleaning products · re-cycling and re-using everything possible! bean-sprouts: what was your goal in setting up selfsufficientish.com? andy: no real goal as it were; we just wanted to share our experiences with others. i guess the closest to a goal would be the ideology of selfsufficientish, which is to reduce your impact on the planet by doing as much yourself as you can. dave: i very much saw the website as something that went hand in hand with what i wanted to do. my eventual goal has always been living in a self-sufficient environment and i saw the website as a way of sharing what could be done whilst living within the constraints of every day life. at the time i was a student living in a shared rented house and as most students are i was completely skint. rather than let this limit me i decided it would be good to share the experiences i had in my chosen lifestyle. it was also a virtual way of sharing ideas. bean-sprouts: what advice would you give someone just starting out in "greening" their lifestyle? dave: don’t look at all the things you can’t do and let it put you off but see all the things you can no matter how small they might be. the first easy example that is always used is to change your light bulbs to energy savers as this is a sure fire way to cut down on carbon and reduce your electricity bill. other tips are to put backs on your curtains to conserve heat, re-use your bath water in the garden or with houseplants, grow your own salad leaves or herbs on a windowsill. in short try and see what you do from day to day and see if there is a greener alternative – there usually is if you look for it. andy: i could not agree more with dave on this question. although i would add don’t fly to the list. i am off on holiday to germany soon by train – my girlfriend is flying and i shall meet her there. i am not saying this makes me a better person, if i was some kind of eco-saint then i would not even use the train and instead cycle everywhere. i do think that we fly too much and even if you don’t think that man is changing the climate, flying still pollutes more than a train does. bean-sprouts: what does the future hold for selfsufficientish.com? andy: we have just recently signed up with hodder and stoughton to write a book. it was not what we intended when we first started, but is very welcome. we hope that we can extend our message to much wider audience. we hope that it will be a book that you will be able to turn to whenever you want to do anything selfsufficientish. so it will cover topics from jam making, foraging and vegetable growing but also cover ethical shopping and how to make do and mend. we don’t want it to be another book that tells you that you are living your life un-environmentally, its not going to be written to give anyone a lecture. instead we hope that people will be inspired to make small changes that make a real difference. we hope it to be the book that every selfsufficientisher, in fact everyone, will find invaluable. if you live on a small holding and have tons of spare time or in a bedsit and work all the hours god sends then you will find something you can do in this book. the book is called the selfsufficientish bible and is out in may 2008. thanks a lot, dave and andy. good luck with the book, i'll look forward to that coming out. posted by melanie rimmer at 7:43 am 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: books, food, foraging, gardening, interviews, preserving, recycling, self sufficiency friday, march 30, 2007 nettle soup following the success of my dandelion salad, i thought i'd continue my "backyard forage" experiments with nettle soup. i've made nettle soap before, and it was a great success. so i already knew that it only takes a little bit of heat to disarm the stings. there's no danger at all that your lunch will sting your mouth, as long as it is well-cooked. i collected a dish of nettles from my back garden, wearing rubber gloves, and added them to some potato soup. it tasted lovely - not strong, but just delicately "green". perhaps a little bit like spinach. i'll definitely make it again. it's delicious hot, but its delicate flavour also tastes good chilled and thinned out with a little cold milk, like vichyssoise. if nothing else, it's a welcome change from sodding cabbage. nettle soup peel a couple of floury potatoes, dice, and simmer in half a pint of duck stock (if you don't have duck stock you'll have to use a chicken or vegetarian stock cube) and half a pint of milk. whilst it's boiling, go outside and collect a breakfast bowl full of nettle tops - the top 4-6 young leaves of each plant. give them a rinse and pick out any "extras", then add them whole to the potatoes. when the potatoes are tender, whizz it all up with a stick blender. stir in plenty of sea salt and freshly ground black pepper, and serve with a swirl of home-made yogurt (or cream, or creme fraiche, or whatever you've got). posted by melanie rimmer at 10:27 am 11 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: food, foraging, frugal, permaculture, recipes, vegetarian tuesday, march 27, 2007 dandelion salad i read somewhere that this is a good time of year to pick young dandelion leaves. you can steam them and eat them like spinach, or eat them raw in a salad. they have a slightly bitter taste, rather like watercress or radicchio. you can also apparently eat primrose flowers (they don't seem to taste of anything much but they look pretty). so last night i combined them in a spring salad. spring salad fill a pint jug with young dandelion leaves, from plants that have not yet flowered. give them a good wash and remove any leaves that are brown or spotted, and any bits of grass you may have gathered by accident. add a couple of quartered hard-boiled eggs, and a few washed primrose flowers. make a dressing by putting 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a jam jar with 1 teaspoon of cider vinegar, a crushed clove of garlic and plenty of ground sea salt and freshly ground black pepper. tightly seal the jam jar and shake vigorously, then toss the salad in the dressing. posted by melanie rimmer at 7:54 am 13 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: food, foraging, frugal, permaculture, recipes, vegetarian sunday, january 07, 2007 i've been tagged wild burro tagged me with the five things meme, so now i have to tell you five things about myself you didn't already know. you didn't log on today to find the name of my first crush at school or what bizarre part-time jobs i had when i was a student, so i'll try to keep it self-sufficiency related. just over 9 years ago i tried to grow vegetables in containers in the horrible paved yard in our old house in liverpool. things started off really well and i had strawberries, rubber beans, tomatoes and i can't remember what else beginning to grow. but then i got pregnant with my eldest and was prostrated with sickness and exhaustion for 3 months. when i felt well enough to go back out there, the slugs had eaten everything. i never tried to grow stuff at that house again. i'm worried this whole plan will never work because my kids (well mainly my eldest who has asperger syndrome and sensory issues) are very picky eaters and won't eat almost anything we can realistically grow. worst of all my husband colludes with them. so unless we can become self sufficient in pizza and pasta we might be on a hiding to nothing. when we first got the allotment i asked the kids what they would like to plant. tom (the eldest) said "bananas". sam (the youngest) said "jelly beans!" well, we've all learned a lot about fruit and vegetable growing since then. i was once bramble picking in a field near here, off the footpath, when the farmer let his cows into the field. the buggers all chased me and you may laugh but even just one cow is much bigger than me and a whole stampede of them is not funny. i scrambled through the thorny hedge, ripping my jacket, and continued picking berries on the other side. as i worked along the hedge the cows followed me. i could hear them snorting and stamping through the hedge. i've never picked berries in that field since. i was sorting out some packets of seeds the other day and making a month-by-month spreadsheet of what to sow and what to harvest, on ed's new laptop. a packet of radish seeds emptied itself all over the keyboard. i managed to get most of them out by holding it upside down and shaking it. but every now and then i discover another one causing a key to stick. sorry, ed. well there are your five things. now i have to tag five more people. i'm going to tag some of my favourite blogs which have been inactive for a while, in the hope it will encourage them to start posting again. www.anythingbutsprouts.blogspot.com www.academicsqueaking.blogspot.com www.multiveg.wordpress.com www.marvin-the-magnificent.blogspot.com www.goodlifeallotment.blogspot.com today's picture is an aerial photo of our allotments, with our plot marked with a red "x". posted by melanie rimmer at 8:30 am 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: allotment, family, food, foraging, friends, house saturday, november 04, 2006 scrumping apples the house next door is up for sale. the family have moved out. the apples are dropping off the trees onto the lawn. i had forgotten how much more delicious apples taste when you've scrumped them. posted by melanie rimmer at 2:14 pm 15 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: food, foraging, trees sunday, october 29, 2006 mushroom identification there are a lot of varieties of mushrooms in our local area at the minute, but i know nothing about identifying them and to be honest i'm a little scared of accidentally poisoning my family. so i've taken photographs and i'm going to try to find out what they are. some of them closely resembled the "brown field mushrooms" you can buy in the supermarket. they were growing in the boggy part of a grassy field, as were some that i'm pretty sure are shaggy ink caps, which are edible. some of them i think are the fairy ring type. there were loads of them but they're very small. some were growing in the grass and others in wood chips under the swings in the park. the most interesting ones were growing in a very shady part of my garden under a evergreen tree. i'm looking forward to adding them to the "now picking" section of my sidebar. posted by melanie rimmer at 3:48 pm 8 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: food, foraging, permaculture friday, october 06, 2006 ethics of foraging there has been a fascinating thread on the rivercottage.net forums about the ethics of foraging. it opened my eyes to a number of issues i hadn't really thought about before: don't trespass whilst foraging ask permission if you wish to forage on private land, including farmland make sure you know what you are picking don't pick anything rare or endangered do bear in mind the other other plants and wildlife in the area - don't go treading on an orchid in your haste to pick those sloes posted by melanie rimmer at 6:17 am 5 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: ethics, foraging, permaculture tuesday, october 03, 2006 conkers it's that time of year again when all british mothers of sons (and some mothers of daughters) have pockets full of conkers. the fruit of the horse chestnut tree, conkers are inedible hard nuts a couple of inches in diameter. british boys love to thread them onto strings and take turns to smash an opponents conker with their own. they keep count of the battles their conker has won, and high-tally conkers can exchange hands in the playground for lavish amounts of sweets or trading cards. serious devotees know that a conker which has been stored for a year will be much harder than a new season's conker, but few are patient enough to wait. so they resort to artificial aging techniques, such as soaking in vinegar or baking in the oven. british mothers know this well. painting your conker with matt varnish, or worse, drilling it out and filling it with epoxy resin is considered cheating, and therefore you're better off asking your dad for help with these. posted by melanie rimmer at 7:56 am 4 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: family, foraging, preserving, trees thursday, september 28, 2006 foraging the bbc website has a slide show with audio about foraging. it features a chap called marcus harrison who runs wild food school courses in cornwall, teaching people about the edible wild plants in the area. i enjoy foraging for free food in the hedgerows near our house, but i'd like to learn more about wild mushrooms. i love mushrooms but i'm worried about inadvertently poisoning the family. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:48 am 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: foraging, frugal, news, permaculture thursday, august 24, 2006 steph's here my sister, steph (who sometimes leaves comments here), came to visit for a few days. it's always fun when she comes, especially when she brings her two children tj and rebecca. we usually do something creative together. today we made a big batch of chutney. then after dinner we took all the kids to the park at the end of our road to pick blackberries and sloes. it's 9 o'clock at night now, and the kids are theoretically in bed. they seem to be making quite a lot of noise up there though. we're just ignoring them. the chutney is still simmering, and steph is strumming her guitar whilst i type this blog entry. there's a glass of red wine waiting for me when i'm done. the good life? i'm living it. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:08 pm 4 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: family, food, foraging, preserving older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ▼ 2012 (1) ▼ february (1) happy valentine's day, ed ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.