bean sprouts one family's search for the good life thursday, july 08, 2010 i get to... i read an article in a magazine by a woman who felt stressed by her life. she was overwhelmed by all the things she had to do. so she shifted the way she described these things by changing "i've got to..." to "i get to...." it struck me as a great idea. today i got to have a coffee with a friend first thing in the morning. we looked at some photos she had taken on a recent family trip to the safari park, and we made a plan to go to the gym together starting in september. then i got to take the dog for a walk among the rolling english farmland. millions of people dream of living in the countryside. i get to live the dream. after that i got to begin tidying the house ready for my dad's arrival tonight. it's fun to anticipate a much-loved guest, and to show my love and respect for him by making an effort to spruce the house up. later i get to go to the end-of-year assembly at the kids' school. there is a great community there and i count most of the other parents and the teachers as my friends. we will all get together to celebrate the children's achievements over the last year, to say goodbye to the year 6's who will go to high school in september, and also to say goodbye to the headmistress who is retiring. after that i get to finish the house cleaning and make everything just-so. and i will get to make dinner for my family, who have never had less than three meals a day in their lives, unlike the majority of the world. in the evening i will get to rest in a clean and tidy house, with my well-fed children tucked up safely in their beds. i will snuggle on the couch with my husband and watch some dvds until it is time to go to bed, keeping one ear open for dad's arrival at around 2am. posted by melanie rimmer at 11:45 am email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest 8 comments: almost mrs average said... ah mel - you never fail to inspire me. it's interesting how one small word can have so much influence. thanks for sharing. x 12:06 pm mainecelt said... brava! this is a grand shift--more momentous than many. a similar, albiet smaller, shift occurred for me when i started teaching myself, instead of "i haven't had/got time for x to say, "i haven't carved out time for x." it helps me remember that i do get to choose how i spend my time, and to take responsibility for the ways in which my schedule does, or does not, reflect the people and pursuits abotu which i care the most. 2:16 pm vonnie said... i like the way you think. 6:41 pm ruthdigs said... this seems such a simple shift in the way of thinking about something but it has really made me have an 'aha' moment. thank you for this inspiration, this kind of thinking is something i'm sorely in need of at the moment. 12:33 pm anonymous said... my life got so much better when i started thanking god for all that he gives me. i'm thankful for a job to go to and the ability to work hard whilst there. i'm thankful for a nice sized house that's big enough for all of us to have space to live comfortably. and i'm thankful that i don't have a bigger house so i can afford to pay the mortgage. i'm thankful for having a wonderful family. it makes such a difference when i'm positive about all i have and i am really very blessed because as you rightly point out, we have so much. em 7:51 pm stonehead said... got is such an ugly sounding word anyway. and often redundant when "have" alone or "must" do the job more pleasingly to my ear. so it's triply pleasing to see you decide to dispense with "i've got". :d 10:58 pm lucy @ smallest smallholding said... fantastic way to rethink what you actually have to be thankful for, rather than wasting time being wistful about what you haven't got/what might have been/what should have been etc. i was recently speaking to a friend who has spent the last couple of months in malawi. she said the main difference there is the focus on relationships, because for some people, that's literally *all* they have, and they make the most of their friends and family. 7:33 pm tread softly said... fun way to describe the day! 12:11 am post a comment newer post older post home subscribe to: post comments (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ► 2012 (1) ► february (1) ▼ 2010 (46) ► september (2) ▼ july (1) i get to... ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.