bean sprouts one family's search for the good life sunday, april 25, 2010 craft fair i'm at a craft fair again, this time in aintree, liverpool with lindsey. i feel very inspired to make more mixed-media art. the only trouble is i have about 20 essays to mark. posted by melanie rimmer at 3:14 pm no comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest monday, april 19, 2010 blakemere craft centre today i am at blakemere craft centre with lindsey and my dad. it has all kinds of craft shops, including craft materials and crafted items. i am enjoying browsing but mostly i am enjoying spending time with people i love. posted by melanie rimmer at 11:25 am 1 comment: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest saturday, april 17, 2010 dig in the have a great website called dig in which is full of resources to help beginners grow their own fruit and veg. there are tips on what you can grow in any space, from a windowsill to a back garden, advice on specific crops including french beans, courgettes, carrots and salad leaves, and many more.there are videos to watch, and message boards to show of your successes and ask for help with your disasters. there is even a touring bus where you can take part in workshops and activities, get advice from expert gardeners, and pick up free seeds. posted by melanie rimmer at 12:11 pm 1 comment: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest friday, april 16, 2010 are supercars good for the environment? i was reading a car magazine recently (i was in the local fish and chip shop waiting for ed's vegetarian chop suey roll to cook, and there wasn't a lot of choice, ok?) and there was an article about the new mclaren supercar. i was reading about the work they have done to get the weight as low as possible, including building it partly from carbon fibres instead of steel. the magazine said that this was good for the car's eco-credentials, which made me snort loudly and brought stares from all the other people in the queue. maybe when we replace the vw polo i'll ask ed if we can get a mclaren instead. "it's not for me, darling, it's for the sake of the planet!" snort. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:22 am 2 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest thursday, april 15, 2010 doesn't make a summer as i was driving home after having coffee with a friend, i thought i saw two swallows on a telephone wire. i couldn't quite believe my eyes so i parked and came back for a better look. i have been watching them for a little while now and sure enough they are swallows. i have had a really good look at them both perching and in flight. i know the old saying "one swallow doesn't make a summer" but two of them have lifted my heart this spring morning. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:04 am 3 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest wednesday, april 14, 2010 gratitudes today i am grateful for: 1. the beautiful sunny weather we have had these last few days 2. my sisters 3. the changes i see every day when i walk my dog - more flowers and buds, insects, lambs getting bigger each day, and so on 4. the things that have made me laugh today 5. friends i can rely on when i need help 6. that i have the capacity to appreciate music, art and other beautiful things 7. my children who make me so proud and happy 8. ed, who has worked very hard lately to make our home better for our family 9. the talents and abilities i have been given 10. my supportive readers who pick me up everytime i am feeling down posted by melanie rimmer at 10:07 am 1 comment: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest tuesday, april 13, 2010 tasting notes: punk ipa robr recommended brewdog's punk ipa so i grabbed a 4-bottle pack next time i saw it. first impressions - bitter. second impressions - really bitter. finish - omg this is bitter. it's fantastic! if you like your beer bitter and hoppy and dry (and not at all gassy) this is a treat. in fact, i can't wait for the summer and for some really really hot weather because a bottle of punk would be the perfect refreshing drink on such a day. but it goes down very nicely on a cool april evening too. thanks for the heads-up rob! posted by melanie rimmer at 10:37 am 3 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest monday, april 12, 2010 what's going on with this blog? if you have been wondering what is going on with this blog you are not alone. i have been wondering, too. bean sprouts is very important to me and i don't want to let it die. but i have been finding it hard to post. it's not that i have stopped caring about all the things i used to write about. i still care very much. it's true that when i realised i was ill i eased up on many of the more time consuming and arduous 'green' practices. i found it a tremendous struggle just to get out of bed and dressed so more convenient options were literally life-saving to me for a while, and i had to learn to stop beating myself up about that (there just wasn't time, anyway. the list of things i was beating myself up about was very long). so i haven't lost interest. in fact i have added some new interests that i would like to blog about. so why haven't i? i think i know why - i have been having similar difficulty in other areas, such as crafting, gardening, work, art - everything, really. the problem is that i have lacked confidence that what i create would be good enough, so i have been creating nothing. stupid, huh? i had a breakthrough today - i am going to stop worrying about whether it is good enough and just do it. scary as that is, i am strong enough now to take the risk of failing. so i pledge to update the blog every day, whether or not i have something earth-shattering to say. whether or not the writing process flows easily. whether or not i cam find the perfect image to go with the post (this time i have used a photo of my dog, gil - my zen master in teaching me how to not care about what people think but just do whatever seems like a good idea at the time). i'm just going to do it. posted by melanie rimmer at 5:05 pm 14 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest friday, april 09, 2010 homeward bound we didn't get past the food halls in harrods but we got some lovely things for our packed lunch on the journey home. we made it to the national portrait gallery just in time for marcus' recital. what a divine ending to a lovely day! we are now on the train home, eating pate and olives and artisan bread, and comparing our sketchbooks and purchases. tired and footsore but very very happy after our adventure. we must do this again, soon. posted by melanie rimmer at 8:18 pm 2 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest g&t @ the v&a we loved the quilt exhibition. even stephanie(who had been a bit dubious about it) had a great time. we were starting to suffer from museum fatigue so we went to an outdoor courtyard and cooled our feet in the fountain whilst drinking gin and tonics. steph is sketching whilst i update the blog. next - harrods (v. unlikely to buy anything but i've never even been inside and i wanted to see it. posted by melanie rimmer at 3:28 pm 3 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest lunch at the natural history museum steph and i are sitting outside of the nat history museum eating our packed lunch of pate and bread and admiring the gorgeous architecture. the weather is lovely - warm and sunny. it's almost too nice to go back indoors but the quilt exhibition beckons so we are heading soon for the v&a. i'm so grateful to my husband, ed, for agreeing to spend the day with 5 kids under the age of 12 to allow me and steph to go gallivanting off like this. posted by melanie rimmer at 1:36 pm no comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest trip to the v&a do you remember i said i wanted to go to london to see the quilt exhibition at the victoria and albert museum? well i am on the train right now for a day trip with my sister stephanie. our itinerary includes the v&a, the national portrait gallery, and a concert by my friend the wigmore prize winner marcus farnsworth. i'll keep you updated throughout the day. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:30 am no comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest saturday, april 03, 2010 pure ubu beer i picked up a bottle of pure ubu premium amber ale at tesco and popped the top off as soon as i had finished putting away the shopping. gosh, it's nice. hoppy and fragrant, not too sweet and with nice degree of bitterness. it's a smidge strong for a session beer to my mind, but that's what it tastes like. if hobgoblin is a bit too sweet for you, as it is for me, you might find this a nice quaffable alternative. posted by melanie rimmer at 4:05 pm 3 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest newer posts older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ► 2012 (1) ► february (1) ▼ 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ▼ april (13) craft fair blakemere craft centre dig in are supercars good for the environment? doesn't make a summer gratitudes tasting notes: punk ipa what's going on with this blog? homeward bound g&t @ the v&a lunch at the natural history museum trip to the v&a pure ubu beer ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.