bean sprouts one family's search for the good life thursday, march 25, 2010 follow bean sprouts on twitter did you know that bean sprouts has a twitter feed? the name is beansproutsblog and you can become a follower by clicking the link! if you haven't dipped your toe into the twitter pool yet, you should know that it is a website that does one very limited thing - it allows you to post a short (140 characters) message which will be sent to everyone who has chosen to "follow" you. so what use is that? you can use it to keep your family and friends up to date with what you are doing. a typical tweet of this kind might read: drinking coffee, listening to miles davis and trying to install anti-virus on dad's laptop or you can use it to draw people's attention to stuff on the web, such as: i just laughed at a funny picture at http://i.imgur.com/ta9dv.jpg you can even use them to organise or participate in a flash mob. i use the beansproutsblog twitter feed to tell followers when i update the blog, to pass along things that interested me that i didn't want to blog about, and to re-tweet messages i think would interest my followers. try it. what's the worst thing that can happen? it's free, and if you don't like it you can always unsubscribe. posted by melanie rimmer at 11:12 am no comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest wednesday, march 24, 2010 spring is going to be a stunner according to a news item on the bbc, the consolation prize for our long hard winter is going to be a stunning spring. matthew oates, the national trust's conservation advisor, says one of the problems with early, rushed springs is the flowers and butterflies then get clobbered by foul and abusive [spring] weather by contrast a late spring following a cold winter means the animals have all had a proper hibernation, and plants emerge over a longer period in successive waves. i hope he's right. i've had about as much manky weather as i can stand. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:39 am 3 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest tuesday, march 23, 2010 quilts at the v&a i'd love to go and see the exhibition quilts 1700-2010 at the victoria and albert museum in london. it's on until july 4th, maybe i'll be able to get down there some time before then. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:12 am 3 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest sunday, march 21, 2010 arty crafty day i had a wonderful day with my sister lindsey. we spent the whole day in my garage/studio with all the doors flung open and the spring sunlight streaming through. we drank gallons of teas and listened to cds whilst chatting, laughing and making arty crafty stuff. lindsey made a dreamcatcher, a couple of necklaces and several pairs of earrings. i wasn't as prolific, i only made four inchies, but i turned a few more pre-made inchies into brooches. i like making inchies, and i think the finished items are very appealing, but i'm always at a loss of what to do with them. lindsey and i came up with a few ideas for making them into wearable/usable items and now i am full of inspiration to try some of these ideas out and see if people might want to buy them. posted by melanie rimmer at 6:40 pm 2 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest saturday, march 20, 2010 spring equinox today is the spring equinox (unless you live in the southern hemisphere in which case it is the autumn equinox). for the last six months the nights have been longer than the days. but today day and night hang in perfect balance. from now onwards the days will be longer than the nights, and will continue to grow longer and longer until the summer solstice, the longest day of the year. yesterday i saw my first open daffodils growing in the ground (not cut daffodils in a florist or pot-grown from the garden centre), and today the narcissus in my own garden have opened. i have been watching the new lambs in the fields near my house. ground elder and cleavers are starting to cover the bare ground wherever gardeners are not actively rooting them out. and last night i found a small insect inside the house. the world seems to be coming back to life. ed has been in france on business for the last week but he got home last night. my dad has been staying with me following a serious illness but he is much recovered. even the moon is in its waxing phase and i feel full of hopefulness. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:29 am 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest wednesday, march 17, 2010 happy st patrick's day because my dad is staying with me, i've been listening to the irish radio channel rte all day so there is no way i could fail to notice today is st patrick's day. we're going to have irish sausages and champ for dinner tonight, washed down with guinness. champ boil about 4lb potatoes until cooked. simmer a couple of bunches of chopped spring onions in 1/2 pint of milk for a few minutes. mash the potatoes and add the hot milk, spring onions, salt and pepper and a couple of ounces of butter. mix well. serve with a generous knob of butter on top. posted by melanie rimmer at 1:39 pm 5 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest sunday, march 14, 2010 starting to feel like spring i've been feeling depressed again since around christmas. don't get me wrong, christmas was great and i had a lovely time. but i ran out of my dried frog pills (antidepressant tablets) and i thought "i don't really need them anymore. i have been feeling fine". big mistake. i got back on them about a month ago and i am starting to perk up. it's really grim to feel like you are in a black pit the whole time and nothing, absolutely nothing at all gives you the least little bit of joy at all. this winter hasn't helped. it has been extraordinarily bleak and long. it's not just my perception; statistically this has been the hardest uk winter in my lifetime. we are only a week away from the spring equinox but there are scarcely any signs of spring at all. a few crocuses and snowdrops are starting to bloom, and i saw some lambs this morning whilst i was walking the dog. but no daffodils are flowering in my area yet and the trees are not in bud. the forsythia and ribes are not out. it feels like early february, not mid-march. but i got loads of house and garden plants for mothers' day and eleanor helped me re-plant all the hanging baskets with pansies, primroses and dwarf narcissi. i still have some plants left but i ran out of potting compost. i will get some more tomorrow on the way home from school and replant some of the containers. i also have some seeds i want to sow indoors. it feels good to get my hands in dirt, in amongst roots and bulbs, and smell the green, vital, earthy scent. it is good to plant things - it always feels to me like a powerful act of faith. you can not plant things unless you have hope for the future. you have to expect that a frail stem with two small leaves is going to grow into a large and beautiful plant. solipsists do not do gardening. posted by melanie rimmer at 5:10 pm 9 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest newer posts older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ► 2012 (1) ► february (1) ▼ 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ▼ march (7) follow bean sprouts on twitter spring is going to be a stunner quilts at the v&a arty crafty day spring equinox happy st patrick's day starting to feel like spring ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.