bean sprouts one family's search for the good life showing posts with label land. show all posts showing posts with label land. show all posts friday, december 29, 2006 plans for 2007 it's fashionable to say "i don't do new year resolutions", but i like them. i'm a great believer in turning over a new leaf, in re-inventing yourself, and in taking stock and taking action. in fact, i like resolutions so much i make them all the time, not just at new year. that's what my monthly challenge polls are about - setting goals and targets and then holding myself to them. so what changes will we be making in 2007? for one thing, we plan to do more with the allotment. we were only given a quarter of a plot, and half of that was very weedy, the other half having been under plastic sheeting for a season. so we cultivated the clean part, and laid the sheeting down over the weedy areas until spring. it was a smart way to begin, because the area was manageable. in fact we tried to cram rather too much in and some crops suffered from overcrowding. so now we can cultivate the whole of the plot we were given, but we have also been given another section of plot. maybe this time we're overstretching ourselves, but we'll see. another goal for 2007 is to try our hand at beekeeping. i've looked up local courses, and the nearest one is fully booked up. i'm on a waiting list for 2008. but i'm looking further afield, and considering going on a weekend course somewhere. if all else fails perhaps i'll just dive straight in without any lessons. i'm good at learning stuff from books, willing to try things and see if they work, and sensible enough to join a local club for some expert advice if i come unstuck. the main project for 2007 is to pay off our mortgage. we have calculated that if we were free of our mortgage and largely self-sufficient in food, ed could afford to give up his full-time job. so we have spent the past couple of days making calculations about how much we can afford to tighten our belts and how quickly that will pay off the loans. funnily enough this is the part that really makes me feel like we might actually one day buy some land. i'm confident that i can learn the knowledge and skills needed to make it work (perhaps foolhardily so), but what worries me is the ever rising cost of land and property. the financial aspect of buying a smallholding is the daunting bit, and it feels good to make steps towards that. i'd also like to visit a smallholding or organic farm for some real hands-on experience and a taster of what it would be like to live like that permanently. to that end i have been investigating wwoofs (voluntary working for brief periods on organic farms). you arrange with a farmer to come and do voluntary work for a weekend. i expect to work hard, but i also expect to learn a lot, not least whether this is really the life for me or should i just stick with my allotment and backyard chickens. what are your plans for 2007? posted by melanie rimmer at 11:06 am 14 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: allotment, chickens, family, food, gardening, house, land, philosophy thursday, december 28, 2006 review of 2006 earlier this year i realised that although i have spent most of my life studying and working in academia, when i daydream i don't dream about publishing papers, giving lectures or attending conferences. i dream about living on a farm, waking early to milk the cows and collect the eggs. i dream about owning a plot of land and raising some livestock and growing some crops. this has always been my daydream for years now, but i hardly talked about it or even consciously thought of it as something achievable. watching the tv series "it's not easy being green" stirred in me such feeling of envy and longing that i spoke to my husband, ed about it. i told him this was what i really wanted to do, and i'd like to try to make it a reality. i was on tenterhooks to see his response. if he had laughed at me and called me crazy, i would have perhaps planted a few vegetables in our garden and tried to satisfy myself with that. he didn't laugh at me. he didn't say much either, although that's ed all over. but the next day he called me over to the computer and said "look at this". he had been searching on the internet for smallholdings for sale and had found some properties he liked the look of. since then we have tried to gain the knowledge and skills we need to make our dream a reality. we have got a small allotment and grown some crops there. we have built a chicken run in the garden and populated it with two hens. we started this blog which has been much more successful than we ever dreamed, and was recently featured in the times. more importantly, the blog also helped us make contact with a lot of really helpful and friendly people who dream the same dream as us. some of them have gone substantially further along the road to self-sufficiency that we have. in 2006 i also taught students in prisons for the first time, which was very rewarding and educational for me. i developed my relationship with my dad as we spent a lot of time together emptying his house in liverpool and selling it, which allowed him to settle permanently in ireland. the kitchen and master bedroom got remodelled following the subsidence we suffered in 2005. sam, our youngest, started full-time school, and his teacher shared with us her concerns that he has asperger's syndrome just like our eldest son (the same teacher was the first to spot the obvious that time, too). so we have begun the protracted diagnosis procedure again. but it has been our change of direction that has dominated the year. we will look back on 2006 as the year we stared making our dream a reality. the first step was admitting what we dreamed about. what do you dream about? posted by melanie rimmer at 11:40 am 9 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: allotment, chickens, family, food, frugal, gardening, house, land wednesday, december 20, 2006 a very, very, very, very fine house not the ramshackle barn in the picture. that's not our house but it's part of the view from our bedroom window. it is rather charming to look at, and i suspect a barn owl lives in it. i never draw my bedroom curtains because of the view. i love our house. we moved just over four years ago and i still think every day how lucky we are to live here. it's a small house with a small garden and it's relatively new with none of the period features our old edwardian townhouse in liverpool used to have. but it is surrounded by farmland. i can look out of my kitchen window and see a tractor, or cows, or (as today) sheep. it's like being on holiday all the time. there is also a lot of wildlife in the garden and the field nearby, including an amazing range of birds as well as frogs, toads, newts, fieldmice and voles, foxes, rats and grey squirrels. i feel like i'm living in the wind in the willows. one version of our dream is that we buy some of the land we can see from the house, and use it to raise vegetables, fruit and livestock. what's stopping us? we've never done anything like that before, and don't know how to go about it. i understand that farmland doesn't sell in estate agents, for the most part. it sells by private agreement. but how do you actually approach a farmer to negotiate buying some land? what would be a reasonable amount to offer? what about access? how does the conversation go? posted by melanie rimmer at 10:13 am 13 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: house, land older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ▼ 2012 (1) ▼ february (1) happy valentine's day, ed ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.