bean sprouts one family's search for the good life showing posts with label knitting. show all posts showing posts with label knitting. show all posts saturday, july 05, 2008 knitting with cats knitting with a kitten in the house is tricky. when he's not trying to catch the ends of my knitting needles, he's playing with the balls of yarn. my mum taught me the solution to this problem. pop the ball of yarn into a container with a hole cut in the lid. mum used margarine tubs but i'm using an ice-cream tub. the tub needs to be big enough for the ball to move and unwind itself. cut a hole in the lid and feed the end of the yarn through, then knit as usual. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:30 am 12 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: cats, knitting tuesday, june 03, 2008 learning to knit sam is learning to knit. he wanted to knit a teddy bear for eleanor, but i've persuaded him to start with squares. i'll sew them up into a bean bag when he's made two of them. he's trying very hard and making great progress. i do a couple of rows when he's not looking so it grows a bit faster for him. it's hard to be patient when you're six. posted by melanie rimmer at 12:00 pm 9 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family, knitting saturday, may 31, 2008 french knitting since the kids helped dyeing yarn with kool aid and making our own knitting needles, they're keen to try knitting. the book kids knitting recommended starting kids with a french knitting spool. it's easier than knitting with needles but it shows them how knitting works, by hooking loops of thread through the loops on the row beneath. so eleanor and sam have been french knitting. that's a picture of sam. he's 6, and he has mastered it very quickly. when i was researching french knitting resources on the internet to include in this post, i found this site about knitting nancies. i never realised there was so much to say on the topic of french knitting, but this fascinating web page uncovers the history of it from the medieval lucet through to a plastic toy which is basically a 45-loop mechanical knitting nancy. check it out. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 8 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family, knitting thursday, may 29, 2008 home-made knitting kneedles here's another of the projects from kids knitting by melanie falick. i'd never thought of making my own knitting needles before, but it's very simple and fun. they're fun to use as well. i can recommend the book as it is full of quick funky knitting projects like this. but there are instructions for making your own knitting needles on various websites. 6-year-old sam helped me make these, and it has inspired him to learn to knit. with the aid of falick's book he is making good progress, knitting a bean-bag on the needles he made himself. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 14 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family, knitting tuesday, may 27, 2008 kool-aid dyed yarn i dyed some wool using kool-aid (an american soft drink). i followed the instructions in a book called kids knitting by melanie falick (we melanies are a darned talented bunch aren't we?). i won't reproduce her directions because they're copyright. if you want to dye yarn with kool aid without buying the book there are several sets of instructions on the internet, for example at knitty.com. kool-aid is not an everyday item in the uk and i had to buy some from koolaiduk.com. i wonder if you can dye yarn with ribena? it was quick, easy and fun, and very effective. i was amazed at the depth of the colours, especially the purple from the grape flavour and the red from the cherry flavour. one amazing part of the process is that the coloured drink turns colourless as all the colour is taken up by the yarn. that was fun to watch. it also means there is no long tedious rinsing out of excess dye at the end of the process. just a quick rinse in clean water then hang it out to dry. and the dyed yarns smell fruity, although presumably that vanishes the first time you wash it. it makes knitting with it fun, though. there are other projects in kids knitting that i want to try. watch this space. posted by melanie rimmer at 1:46 pm 15 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, dyeing, knitting friday, march 09, 2007 you should make those to sell! when you make crafts, people are always saying to you "oh you should sell those!" but when you ask them how much they'd pay, their offers are usually less than the cost of materials. case in point - i made a shopping bag out of old carrier bags cut into strips and knitted together. and as usual people said "you should sell those. i'd buy one". it's true the materials cost me nothing, but it took me about ten hours to cut the strips and knit it together. at minimum wage, that's £53.50 just for the labour. so i offered to sell them the bag for that price. they all declined. i think a skilled craftsperson is worth a lot more than minimum wage. and if i was making crafts as a business i'd also have to pay tax, bank fees, public liability insurance and all kinds of other expenses. if i seriously wanted to make hand-made recycled shopping bags as a profitable business i probably couldn't afford do it for less than about £100 per bag. but people only pay that much for fashionable designer items, not recycled home-made chic. when you buy the materials it comes to even more. the yarn for a hand-made woollen sweater costs in the region of £50, and they take more than ten hours to knit so the labour costs are astronomical. the materials for a hand-made quilt are many times more than that but shhh, don't tell ed, my husband. the labour for a quilt is also measured in many tens of hours. that's why i don't make crafts to sell. i don't even make them as gifts because i know people often think "hand made gift. cheapskate. second-rate". i only make gifts for people who appreciate what they're worth, usually other craftspeople. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:56 am 14 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, knitting, recycling wednesday, november 29, 2006 review: stitch 'n bitch the knitter's handbook my mum showed me how to knit when i was a child but i wasn't very good at it. as an adult i picked it up again from time to time but never really "got into" knitting until i found stitch 'n bitch by debbie stoller. knitting's not just for old ladies! who knew? . the book is written in a "young" and irreverent style. it is stuffed full of knitting patterns for things you actually want to make. but where it really wins in my opinion is the clear instructions for every knitting activity you could wish. knit and purl stitches, casting on and off (lots of different ways) sewing up, plus the odds and ends like increasing, decreasing, making a buttonhole or a picot edging and so on. this book contains everything you need to know. . also check out stitch 'n bitch nation by the same author. more fun and funky patterns, and it also teaches you to understand knitting, so you will feel confident enough to modify knitting patterns and even design your own patterns. her new book about crochet, the happy hooker, looks good too. posted by melanie rimmer at 4:22 pm 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: books, crafts, knitting older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ▼ 2012 (1) ▼ february (1) happy valentine's day, ed ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.