bean sprouts one family's search for the good life showing posts with label cycling. show all posts showing posts with label cycling. show all posts sunday, march 09, 2008 department for transport apologises over usable cycle lane funny story from the satirical newspaper newsbiscuit.com: the rt hon. ruth kelly, secretary of state for transport, issued a full apology today after it transpired that a cycle lane in wilmslow, cheshire, did not contain substantial fragments of broken glass, abandoned vehicles or a telephone box placed right in the middle... ‘this places us in an impossible position’ said one local cyclist. ‘we were already as self-righteous as it was possible to be. this new outrage against our healthy and carbon neutral form of sustainable transport has left us unable to be any more self righteous.’ read the whole story here. cartoon from climate cartoons. click on the panel to read the whole strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:54 am 9 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: cycling, funny, transport monday, september 10, 2007 i want to ride my bicycle so what happened to the plans for cycling to school? ed and i spent many hours this summer running up and down the crescent pushing the kids on their bikes. sam, the youngest, cracked it first, and now he jumps on his bike as soon as he gets home and tears up and down the street. the eldest, tom, took a bit longer, but in the end he managed to ride up and down the street unaided. at that point he declared "i know how to ride a bike", and refused to practice any more. eleanor, the middle child and the only girl, has taken the longest and is still very unsteady. she can't get herself started and can only stop by falling off. so obviously we're not yet ready to cycle 2 miles to school. but i am determined to do it (and ed is keen to have access to the family car occasionally), so i'm sure we'll get there in the end. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:19 am 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: cycling, family, frugal, transport friday, july 20, 2007 bicycle ride yesterday i took my first bicycle ride for a genuine errand, rather than just practicing how to stop and start and not fall off. i went to the village and back for a bottle of wine, about a 4 mile round trip. all was going well until i tried to cycle over a railway bridge. i made it over the bridge (barely) but it took everything i had, and afterwards i had jelly legs. i had to get off and push for the last mile, but even then my legs kept giving out on me. i'm familiar with this phenomenon from when i used to do distance running. your legs don't hurt, they just won't hold you up. it happens when you push too hard. i used to get it doing speed work (when you sprint for a while, then jog for a while, then sprint, then jog etc.) so i understood why the railway bridge had done for me. when i got back home i sat down, ate a banana and drank some water and i was right as rain in a few minutes, so don't worry. i didn't do any damage, i just tried to do something my legs aren't strong enough for yet. more practice required, i think. i'm determined to get the family cycling to school next september. i've just won an auction for a pink girls' bike on ebay for eleanor, so now we all have bikes. the summer holiday has just begun so daily cycling trips are in order - avoiding bridges. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:10 am 12 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: cycling, transport tuesday, june 26, 2007 i've got a bike isn't freecycle wonderful? it's the network of local groups where people post adverts offering stuff they don't need anymore and other people come and take it away. it was first described to me as "like ebay, but free". i love it. at the weekend i collected bikes for me and tom. many thanks to kate from levenshulme and mary from whalley range (fab house, by the way!) sam can have tom's old bike, and i'm still looking out for a bike for ellie. if i can't find one on freecycle before the summer holidays i'll have to buy one, but i don't mind. we've done very well to get so many bikes for nothing. come to think of it, ed's bike was a freecycle find as well. posted by melanie rimmer at 8:09 am 19 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: cycling, frugal, transport older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ▼ 2012 (1) ▼ february (1) happy valentine's day, ed ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.