bean sprouts one family's search for the good life showing posts with label poetry. show all posts showing posts with label poetry. show all posts monday, july 07, 2008 summer haiku cat stretched on the quilt - one patch of sunlight by kind permission of john mcdonald via summer haiku 2008 posted by melanie rimmer at 10:19 am 15 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: poetry thursday, april 24, 2008 spring poetry a bit of an old chestnut, this (ha ha), but a splendid poem nevertheless. philip larkin - the trees the trees are coming into leaf like something almost being said; the recent buds relax and spread, their greenness is a kind of grief. is it that they are born again and we grow old? no, they die too, their yearly trick of looking new is written down in rings of grain. yet still the unresting castles thresh in fullgrown thickness every may. last year is dead, they seem to say, begin afresh, afresh, afresh. posted by melanie rimmer at 11:05 am 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: poetry, trees friday, january 25, 2008 haiku explained a number of people have contacted me asking for an explanation of the haiku i was so impressed with. so i'll explain how i read it: so suddenly winter - i took this at face value. the author has experienced a sudden onset of winter, perhaps waking up to find everything covered with snow, although the weather had been mild previously. baby teeth at the bottom of the button jar - i know from experience the poignancy of coming across baby teeth you've kept. it brings memories of the children when they were very young, and leads you to compare how big they are now, although it seems only yesterday you swapped these teeth for money "from the tooth fairy" and stored them carefully in the button jar. then i had an "aha" moment. in the light of the poignant baby teeth in the button jar, i re-evaluated the first line of the haiku "so suddenly winter". perhaps the author isn't commenting on a sudden onset of wintry weather, but a sudden feeling of having become old, a sudden awareness of how long it is since these teeth were stored away. and that's what made me catch my breath. now i look at the four paragraphs it took to explain that, and i know i will never write a good haiku. but i do enjoy reading them. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:23 pm 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: poetry thursday, january 24, 2008 winter haiku i've been reading some books of poetry recently. i don't know very much about poetry; i can't tell a good poem from a bad poem. but sometimes when i read a poem it makes me catch my breath. this one did. so suddenly winter baby teeth at the bottom of the button jar --carolyn hall (water lines, snapshot press, 2006) (found at wikipedia's entry for haiku) posted by melanie rimmer at 10:41 am 5 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: poetry thursday, september 27, 2007 autumn haiku not just any 17-syllable phrase is a haiku. not even poetic sentiments that break 5-7-5 are necessarily haikus. i'm told that the essence of haiku is the "haiku moment" - a moment where time seems to stand still in perfect consciousness of the instant, expressed in the most concise poetic form possible. i've experienced moments like that. for example, last night sam and i went out to see the harvest moon. walking up the road towards the open field, sam was scared of the dark, so i picked him up and carried him in my arms. when we saw the moon, it was so bright, it cast our shadows on the ground. we both just stood there and watched it for a while. i'm a wordy, rambling person (i'm sure you've noticed) and i wouldn't dare try to express such a moment as a haiku. but i liked this one, written over 200 years ago by a japanese gentleman-poet: such a moon - even the thief pauses to sing. posted by melanie rimmer at 11:00 am 5 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: moon, poetry friday, may 11, 2007 spring haiku i've been reading japanese haikus recently. i knew that they were a traditional form of japanese poetry, 17 syllables long, but i didn't know the length was chosen to be the duration of a single breath. i didn't know they were traditionally about the four seasons and the turning of the year. and i didn't know that a traditional zen story tells of a young student who asked his master whether it is true that zen masters are able to perform miracles. the teacher assured him it was true. what kinds of miracles? fetching water and carrying firewood. "those who practice this are all miracle buddhas." i like that. i liked this haiku, too. sitting silently, doing nothing, spring comes, and the grass grows by itself. posted by melanie rimmer at 7:55 am 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: poetry tuesday, january 16, 2007 a pocketful of rhyme my 8-year-old son, tom, is a published poet. his poem "wings" was a winner of a national children's poetry competition and was published in the anthology "pocketful of rhyme". i'm so proud of him. i have written my share of poetry, but i have never had any published. so here it is (with permission from the author). wings if i had wings i would touch stampeding winds in a tornado. if i had wings i would taste water from the very crust of the world. if i had wings i would listen to a meteor crash to earth penetratingly. if i had wings i would gaze at the burning american forest fire. if i had wings i would dream of flying with geese in the shape of a v. if i had wings i would join the american army and explore the pentagon. if i had wings i would touch clouds and see the wind giants, who argue a lot. posted by melanie rimmer at 7:59 am 14 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: books, family, poetry older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ▼ 2012 (1) ▼ february (1) happy valentine's day, ed ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.