bean sprouts one family's search for the good life showing posts with label funny. show all posts showing posts with label funny. show all posts sunday, november 30, 2008 sunday funnies i love this video of a bloke who spends over £80 on beauty products which the saleswoman promised would make him feel more youthful, energised and better-looking. two weeks later he shows "before and after" photos of himself to passers-by who all agree he looks no different. so he returns to the store and loudly demands his money back. the reactions of the staff and other shoppers are priceless. posted by melanie rimmer at 11:04 am 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny, shopping sunday, november 23, 2008 sunday funnies buy nothing day 2008 is coming soon. if you're not sure what bnd is all about or whether you want to participate, watch this short animation by friends of the earth cartoon strip by throbgoblins. click the panel to read the whole strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:51 am 13 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny, shopping sunday, november 02, 2008 sunday funnies george carlin on saving the planet. cartoon by marc roberts at throbgoblins. click on the panel to read the whole strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 8:12 am 5 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny sunday, october 26, 2008 sunday funny sorry i didn't post yesterday. i haven't vanished again. but my sister steph has arrived for a visit over half term. we've been learning to draw in pastels (well i've been learning, steph is already very good at it), decorating the house for hallowe'en, shopping for our brother-in-law andrew's birthday presents (happy birthday andrew!) and generally having lots of fun. since it's sunday, here are some funnies: after an exhaustive three year study, scientists at the university of the isle of dogs, east london, (uidel) have discovered what they think could be the real cause of global warming - people all over the world hanging out their washing to dry writes special washing correspondent barry rooster. the boffins say that when freshly-laundered clothes - especially whites and light coloureds - are hung on washing lines, they reflect the sun's rays upwards, leading to an increase in the greenhouse effect. head of research gunther smallpiece comments: "we've previously been told to reduce the temperature on our washing machines to save electricity, but this is fact counter-effective. we will recommend to the government that the population use the full drying cycle on their machines, instead of hanging the garments outside in the fresh air". and he goes further: "this is so serious, we'd like to see hanging washing outdoors to be banned in the same way as smoking indoors.""we'd like to see it become, if you like, a 'hanging offence'!", he jokes, proving conclusively that even dull scientists do have a sense of humour. from the spoof. cartoon from throbgoblins. click on the panel to read the whole strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 1:46 pm 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: drawing, family, funny tuesday, august 12, 2008 sunday funnies well, ok, he's not being very funny in this clip but he's bang on the money. there can be no meaningful response to climate change without massive social change. anything else is just decadent preach it, rob. cartoon from marc roberts at throbgoblins posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 5 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny sunday, july 27, 2008 many a true word is spoken in jest we were discussing the problem of plastic bags, and my friend carl williams said: i like lidl's scheme, common practice in germany - charge for 'em. the lengths people will go to to save 10p *vastly* outstrip the lengths they'll go to not to fck up the planet. depressing, but true. cartoon by marc roberts of throbgoblins. marc's cartoons will be featured in the magazine new internationalist starting in october. congratulations marc! posted by melanie rimmer at 9:51 am 12 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny sunday, june 22, 2008 sunday funnies i'm experimenting with a different format for marc roberts' throbgoblins cartoons. let me know if you like them this way or if you prefer the old "click through to read the full strip" format. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:24 am 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny sunday, june 08, 2008 sunday funnies penn and teller want to know just how far people will go to sort their rubbish for recycling, so they invent some new coloured bins and spurious ways to sort trash. ok, they're poking fun at good people who are willing to make an effort to do something for the environment, which isn't cool. but they're right that we should all be wary of "greenwashing" from local government just as much as from retail businesses. and as i've said before - if you recycle a lot, you should think about consuming less instead. perhaps the household in your street who never puts out any plastic bottles for recycling aren't buying lots of stuff in plastic bottles in the first place, which would be much better. cartoon from throbgoblins. click on the panel to read the whole strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny, recycling sunday, june 01, 2008 sunday funnies this week's cartoon from marc roberts (click on the panel to view the full strip) proves that the truth is stranger than fiction. the cartoon was posted on the throbgoblins website a few days before a news item appeared on the bbc website about a man who wants to build 60 million giant artificial trees to soak up all the world's carbon. he thinks this is quite possible because: we make 55 million cars a year, so if we really wanted to we could. i loved this bit: the towers would be about 50ft high and 8ft in diameter, and use a special type of plastic to absorb the co2. and plastic is made of.....? and this is the best bit of all: the gas would then be either liquefied under pressure and pumped underground or turned into a mineral. so he wants to turn it back into oil, basically. and what do we do with oil? i guess we could dig it up again and burn it again. that woudl be ok, right? because we could use the 60 million giant artificial trees to just catch it and put it back underground again. there couldn't be any problem with that, could there? it reminds me of the homer simpson quote: lisa! in this house, we obey the laws of thermodynamics! i'd like to leave him alone in a room with cantankerous frank for a while. he sounds like he needs a lesson from the clue-stick. marc has been producing cartoons prolifically lately and it will take me a little while to catch up with him. visit his website, throbgoblins, to read all the latest strips. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny sunday, may 25, 2008 sunday funnies the official monster raving loony party manifesto: environmental policies 16. make weeding an olympic sport in order to save the 100 year old manor garden allotments from being demolished for the 2012 games. 136. people who drink gin and tonics will not be allowed ice. this will help to preserve the polar ice cap. 137. to make electric cheaper to produce all joggers will be placed in a huge revolving drum linked by a dynamo to the national grid. 139. we will channel all the hot air coming from parliament into a purpose built wind farm just off the coast, so that everyone will have free heating in the winter, and electric fans in the summer. and here are some from an old manifesto that seem to have been dropped: all foxes will be issued with sheep’s clothing. half the grey squirrel population will be painted red in order to increase the red squirrel population. all houses built on flood plains will have foundations made of sponge, in order to soak up surplus water. fox hunting will be re introduced under the “one hound – one dog” policy to make it a bit fairer. to solve the increasing obesity problem and global warming, all tvs and home computers must be run only by exercycle generators. a phase-in period of this major remedy will be allowed - maybe 5 to 5m minutes. cartoon from throbgoblins. click on the panel to read the whole strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny sunday, may 18, 2008 sunday funnies tom's favourite joke at the moment: he approaches one of the allotmenteers and asks, "do you put manure on your rhubarb?" when they say "yes" he replies, "that's funny - i prefer custard on mine". boom boom. cartoon by throbgoblins. click on the panel to read the whole strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny sunday, may 11, 2008 the good life video clip from the good life. features penelope keith in jodhpurs. cartoon thanks to marc roberts at throbgoblins. click on the panel to read the whole strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny sunday, may 04, 2008 carpooling video funny youtube video about carpooling. "carpooling - it's a great way to help the environment. and besides, it's way better than disco or mullets" cartoon thanks to marc roberts at throbgoblins. click on the panel to read the whole strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny sunday, april 27, 2008 i'll be just fine, says planet funny story from the satirical website the daily mash. the earth spoke out after a series of books, television programmes and environmental campaigns urged people to do everything in their power to 'save the planet'. earth, 4,000,000,000, said last night: "i'll be absolutely fine, seriously. i might get a bit warmer and a bit wetter, but to be honest, that actually sounds quite nice." the planet said environmental campaigners should change their slogan from 'save the planet' to something more relevant such as 'save your sorry arse'. as you may have spotted, the article contains some swearing. that said, if you want to read the whole story it's here: i'll be just fine, says planet cartoon from throbgoblins. click the panel to read the whole strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 12:00 pm 11 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny saturday, april 19, 2008 what's new in the sustainable blogosphere? for the last two weeks i have been too busy to keep up with my emails and blogging, and now i'm catching up. here's a few of the things that landed in my mailbox that i thought worth sharing with bean sprouts readers. earth day first of all, this coming tuesday is earth day. earth day has been going since 1969, but the time is right for it to really take off. i'd love to see it become bigger than christmas (which is a religious feast for christians like me but tends to be just an excuse for an orgy of over-consumption and wastefulness for, well, for christians like me and everyone else as well). earth day is for everyone who lives on earth. you'd have to be living in a cave not to notice christmas when it comes around. earth day should be the same. every time you buy a calendar or a diary it should have earth day marked on it already. so do something. spread the word. send an e-card. give gifts of le light bulbs and organic wine. invite friends around for a meal of local food, obviously. blog about it. spread the word. swaptree.com donates to the sierra club in honor of earth day this tuesday, swaptree.com, the website where you can trade the books, dvds, cds, and video games you have, for the ones you want, for free, will be donating $1 dollar for every trade made on earth day to the sierra club. swaptree is like ebay but cash-less. british readers of a certain age will remember noel edmonds' multicoloured swap shop which used to be on tv on saturday mornings. young viewers would send requests to swap a bay city rollers scarf for an action man with eagle eyes and so on. swaptree is much swankier - you type in the bar code of the book, cd, dvd or video game you have and the clever swaptree software figures out 2-way, 3-way and even 4-way swaps that mean everyone gets the things they want. you don't pay swaptree for the privilege. it doesn't cost you anything apart from postage, and swaptree can calculate the shipping cost and print out a mailing label so you don't even have to go to the post office. you give and receive feedback so you can feel confident you won't be ripped off. there's a video tour so you can see how easy it is. but sadly it is only available in the united states at present. as soon as it comes to the uk i'll be the first to sign up. penguin classics partners with the nature conservancy staying with the topic of books, i have some news about one of my favourite publishing imprints, penguin classics. on april 1st, 2008, penguin classics began their support of the nature conservancy's ambitious reforestation plan to plant and restore one billion trees in brazil's atlantic forest. in bookstores everywhere, bookmarks (printed on recycled paper) featuring three of penguin's favorite environmental classics, rachel carson's under the sea wind, john muir's the mountains of california and ralph waldo emerson's nature and selected essays, will encourage readers to visit the nature conservancy's website, donate a dollar and help plant a billion trees. there's more information about this partnership here. downshifting week international downshifting week starts today. yippee! thanks to rebecca from sallygardens for the reminder. last year it was just national downshifting week, so it's growing fast. visit the website for ideas of how to take part, including: book a half-day off work to spend entirely with someone you love, no diy allowed cook a meal from scratch, using locally sourced, seasonal ingredients, preferably organic cut up a credit card i'll have a think about what i'm going to do this year, and i'll let you know later in the week. please leave a comment and tell me what you'll be doing for idw. take back the filter the indomitable beth terry from fakeplasticfish has started a new campaign to urge clorox (the company that owns brita in north america) to take responsibility for the millions of plastic brita water filter cartridges that are disposed of each year. it's called take back the filter and has its own homepage. here in the uk we can recycle our brita cartridges. the faq page of the brita uk website says: all components of the brita cartridge are recyclable. cartridges returned to brita will be returned to our own recycling plant in germany where the component parts are separated and processed for secondary use. for information on brita in-store recycling contact the britacare team on 0844 740 4800 and the recyclenow.com top tips at home webpage says: in line with growing consumer demand for greener living, brita has launched a new in store recycling scheme. recycling bins are now situated in a range of high street stores such as robert dyas, argos and cargo. other major retailer collection points will be following soon. the brita branded bins will be located next to the existing water filter category in store. customers can recycle any brita consumer product filter cartridge, including those for the new brita water filter taps. so once again this is more relevant to us readers than to our home grown readers. but the internet is an international medium and i'm glad to support beth's campaign. this bill's got no balls here's one specifically for uk readers, though. 'this bill's got no balls' - the new short film from i count - follows three hilarious scenarios where the protagonist, bill, confronts three eyewatering situations - on the football pitch, in the office and on the street - that clearly demonstrate that he's lacking a sensitive part of his anatomy. click here to watch the film. viewers are encouraged to visit the i count website, from where they can put pressure on their local mps to vote for a climate change bill with balls when the new law is voted on in the summer. the film can also be viewed on myspace and facebook so please feel free to forward it to your friends. mathew horne - of bbc3's 'gavin and stacey' who provided the voice over for the film - said: the climate change bill needs balls if we're ever going to tackle climate change. i will be putting the squeeze on my mp to make sure we have a tough bill. you should too. the broke vacationer sally thompson of travelhacker has written an article called the broke vacationer: 100 ways to get free stuff when traveling. i like some of the frugal tips in this article, although i don't really want to encourage people to fly all over the world on their holidays. have a look at the article and decide for yourself which of the tips fit your own ethical values and which you might prefer to pass. home gardening tips bill stanley, author of home gardening tips, got in touch to ask if he could add bean sprouts to his blogroll. bill has been a home gardener for over 20 years and enjoys sharing his gardening tips with friends and family as well as the rest of the world. as well as tips on plants and gardening, bill has recently added articles about saving the environment whilst gardening, buying flowers online and those slimy little buggers, snails. just for the record, i'm always delighted when anyone adds bean sprouts to their blogroll, or links to bean sprouts in a blog article. you don't need to ask permission, but if you do i'll check your blog out and maybe write about it, just like this! so email me and say hi. we dig for victory rob burns has built a mini campaign site called we dig for victory. he has created a little sticker and his website says: by using this sticker on my blog or site i'm digging for victory by... 1. growing some of my food at home or at an allotment - however modest. 2. eating locally and seasonally where i can and reducing food miles. 3. buying from small, local shops where i can and supporting my local economy. there's a bit more about the campaign on the page titled about this site. why not add the sticker to your own blog or website and spread the word? thats it, i'm all caught up with my emails now. i only wish the same were true of my laundry . posted by melanie rimmer at 3:44 pm 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: activism, barter, books, frugal, funny, gardening, news, recycling, self sufficiency, shopping sunday, april 13, 2008 ali g and the tree huggers "ketchup should be free", i want that on a t-shirt! cartoon as always from throbgoblins. click the panel to read the full strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 1:04 pm 5 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny, trees tuesday, april 01, 2008 bicycle chain cleaning it's spring time and we've had a few nice days - the kind of day that makes you feel like going for a long bike ride. but if your bike has been rusting in the shed all winter it's important to clean and oil it before you hit the road. the chain in particular should be thoroughly cleaned at regular intervals. when was the last time you cleaned your bike chain? uhuh. i thought so. to do a really proper job of cleaning a manky bike chain, of course you need to disassemble it. don't panic, it's easier than it sounds. there are clear step-by-step instructions, with photographs, at sheldon brown's excellent webpage on the topic. i strongly advise you to read it carefully. if you enjoyed sheldon's bike chain cleaning article, visit his home page for more advice, information, enthusiasm and humour about cycling. rip sheldon brown (1944-2008) posted by melanie rimmer at 8:55 am 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: april 1st, funny sunday, march 30, 2008 environmental quips from the late night shows "president bush said he just saw a film about global warming, 'ice age 2; the meltdown.' he said, 'it's so much better than that boring al gore movie.'" --jay leno "on the other hand, dick cheney said he's seen al gore's global warming film five times, and it still cracks him up." --conan o'brien "president bush says he's really going to buckle down now and fight global warming. as a matter of fact, he announced today he's sending 20,000 troops to the sun" --david letterman from about.com cartoon by marc roberts of throbgoblins. click on the panel to view the rest of the strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:07 am 5 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: funny friday, march 28, 2008 link love: marc roberts marc roberts is a friend of bean sprouts. he draws and writes (sometimes with the help of marc hudson) the cartoons i usually publish on sundays. if you're too impatient to wait for next sunday you can have your fill of cantankerous frank, the chocolate fireguard and all of marc's other creations by visiting his website, throbgoblins. he very generously allows free use of his cartoons for campaigning, educational or other ethical purposes, as long as credit is given to the cartoonist and the site. see the bottom of his website for details. if you're a green blogger, why not add marc's cartoons to your own site? the specifically climate-related cartoons are all gathered in one blog called climate chaos. there is also a non-blog website called climate cartoons, where the climate cartoons are arranged into categories. so if you know you want a single-panel cartoon to fit your blog layout, or if you want to see all of the labrats cartoons in one place, it's eaier to find what you want at climate cartoons than at a blog. marc also has a new website where he uploads his art rather than cartoons. it's called more joy in heaven and i very much like the paintings he has put on there so far. i have lots of talents but art is not one of them and i am in awe of people who can imagine and create images like this. i'd very much like to buy one of marc's paintings. i'll have to get in touch with him about that. why not go and visit marc's blogs? you've got a pretty wide choice - edgy political and environmental cartoons, or serious art with mythological themes. leave him a comment. tell him i sent you. enjoy. posted by melanie rimmer at 11:52 am 12 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: art, friends, funny sunday, march 23, 2008 practical jokes for chickens i sometimes check my blog stats to see which search terms bring visitors to bean sprouts. "how to make greek yogurt" is popular, as is "can i eat bean sprouts when pregnant?". but one i saw today made me laugh: "practical jokes for chickens". posted by melanie rimmer at 5:27 pm 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: chickens, funny older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ▼ 2012 (1) ▼ february (1) happy valentine's day, ed ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.