bean sprouts one family's search for the good life showing posts with label crafts. show all posts showing posts with label crafts. show all posts friday, august 01, 2008 recycled mirror my very talented and arty sister stephanie made me a beautiful mirror decorated with recycled drinks cans. she cut the cans into small squares then folded the corners of the squares to form smaller squares with safe edges. each small square was nailed onto an old wooden picture frame with a tack in each corner. the picture frame used to be white and contained a picture of elmer the patchwork elephant. all our children are too old for elmer now, so she removed the print and painted the frame with some blue and purple emulsion paint we found in the shed, before nailing the pieces of drinks can onto it. then steph cut an old piece of mirror glass to fit the frame (we saved the mirror from an old wardrobe, it's been in the shed for years). and that was it, a beautiful new recycled mirror. i was utterly delighted with it - until i found that she had cut up several drinks cans with my best dressmaking scissors. posted by melanie rimmer at 8:56 am 20 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family, recycling tuesday, june 03, 2008 learning to knit sam is learning to knit. he wanted to knit a teddy bear for eleanor, but i've persuaded him to start with squares. i'll sew them up into a bean bag when he's made two of them. he's trying very hard and making great progress. i do a couple of rows when he's not looking so it grows a bit faster for him. it's hard to be patient when you're six. posted by melanie rimmer at 12:00 pm 9 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family, knitting saturday, may 31, 2008 french knitting since the kids helped dyeing yarn with kool aid and making our own knitting needles, they're keen to try knitting. the book kids knitting recommended starting kids with a french knitting spool. it's easier than knitting with needles but it shows them how knitting works, by hooking loops of thread through the loops on the row beneath. so eleanor and sam have been french knitting. that's a picture of sam. he's 6, and he has mastered it very quickly. when i was researching french knitting resources on the internet to include in this post, i found this site about knitting nancies. i never realised there was so much to say on the topic of french knitting, but this fascinating web page uncovers the history of it from the medieval lucet through to a plastic toy which is basically a 45-loop mechanical knitting nancy. check it out. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 8 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family, knitting thursday, may 29, 2008 home-made knitting kneedles here's another of the projects from kids knitting by melanie falick. i'd never thought of making my own knitting needles before, but it's very simple and fun. they're fun to use as well. i can recommend the book as it is full of quick funky knitting projects like this. but there are instructions for making your own knitting needles on various websites. 6-year-old sam helped me make these, and it has inspired him to learn to knit. with the aid of falick's book he is making good progress, knitting a bean-bag on the needles he made himself. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 14 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family, knitting tuesday, may 27, 2008 kool-aid dyed yarn i dyed some wool using kool-aid (an american soft drink). i followed the instructions in a book called kids knitting by melanie falick (we melanies are a darned talented bunch aren't we?). i won't reproduce her directions because they're copyright. if you want to dye yarn with kool aid without buying the book there are several sets of instructions on the internet, for example at knitty.com. kool-aid is not an everyday item in the uk and i had to buy some from koolaiduk.com. i wonder if you can dye yarn with ribena? it was quick, easy and fun, and very effective. i was amazed at the depth of the colours, especially the purple from the grape flavour and the red from the cherry flavour. one amazing part of the process is that the coloured drink turns colourless as all the colour is taken up by the yarn. that was fun to watch. it also means there is no long tedious rinsing out of excess dye at the end of the process. just a quick rinse in clean water then hang it out to dry. and the dyed yarns smell fruity, although presumably that vanishes the first time you wash it. it makes knitting with it fun, though. there are other projects in kids knitting that i want to try. watch this space. posted by melanie rimmer at 1:46 pm 15 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, dyeing, knitting wednesday, april 30, 2008 make a little birdhouse in your soul i've been watching a bluetit carrying nesting materials to the birdhouse in our back garden. hopefully he'll attract a mate and raise a clutch of chicks like last year. here are some images i found when searching for "recycled bird house". each image is a link to the page it comes from. some of them have instructions how to make the item, some are ready-made items for sale, and some are out-of-date and no longer for sale, but i thought they could be inspiration for your own recycled bird house projects. if you make a recycled bird house, please email me a photo, and say whether you're happy for your image to be used on the blog. posted by melanie rimmer at 4:28 pm 16 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: biodiversity, birds, crafts, recycling school banner here is the banner steph helped me sew together for the kids' school. eleanor is making her first holy communion this month, and each member of her class painted a sacrament-related design onto a 1' square of fabric. the teacher asked me to assemble all 30 squares into a banner. eleanor's square is the second from the right on the top row. it's a funky-looking yellow bird representing the holy spirit, with multicoloured embellishments and glitter. here it is enlarged. eleanor always uses colour lavishly in her paintings. years ago all her class coloured in angels at christmas time. most of the children used tasteful combinations of white, silver and gold to colour their angels. eleanor coloured hers with stripes using every pen in the set; hers was a groovy rainbow hippy angel. at the end of the school year, the banner will be cut up and each child will take their artwork home. i wonder if i'll be asked to hem all 30 squares? probably. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:44 am 8 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family sunday, april 20, 2008 recycled clock i was keeping a nice box just because i liked it. steph suggested we make it into a clock. good idea - the box was very shallow, with a square top, about the right dimensions for a clock. so how do you make a clock anyway? we bought a battery-powered (rechargeable batteries, obviously) clock mechanism from a craft and hobby shop. if you want to make a totally recycled clock you could use a working mechanism from another clock. the instructions on the packet told us how big to make the hole for the hands, so we measured the centre of the box precisely, and using a craft knife we made a hole the correct size. after that it was mainly a matter of following the instructions. we pushed the mechanism through the hole and fixed it in place with a hot melt glue gun. we assembled the hands on to the stem of the mechanism, making sure they were all aligned at 12 o'clock. a little nut secured the hands in place, then we could insert the rechargeable battery and set the correct time. hold your breath to see if the second hand begins to move. hurrah! we needed to be able to access the clock mechanism to change the time and replace the battery, and we wanted to be able to hang our clock. the bottom of the box fit very snugly on to the top, so we decided to push it back on (but not glue it) and make a hole in the back for hanging. we measured the exact centre of the box, and cut a triangular hole. that's it! our clock was finished and we hung it on the wall. if you don't have a box just the right size for a clock, there are other possibilities. you could make a box out of cardboard and cover it with wrapping paper, wallpaper, fabric, or paint it. use the cardboard from a corn flakes packet, keeping the image from the packaging as the clock decoration for a funky warhol-esque kitchen clock. use a chocolate box with a nice image on the lid. i don't have numbers on my clock, but you could draw or paint numbers on yours. if you prefer a more professional look you could get transfers or stencils for numbers from a hobby craft shop. or print some out in a font you like and glue them on. alternatively you could just put dots in the location of the numbers - paint or draw the dots, or glue on beads, sequins or glass nuggets. if you make a recycled clock, i'd love to see it. email me a photo, and let me know if you're willing for the photo to be shown on bean sprouts. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:35 am 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family, frugal, recycling wednesday, april 09, 2008 sewing day steph and i spent all day today sewing a banner for the kids' school. my daughter's teacher asked me to help with this project. every student in her class had painted a design on to a 12" square of fabric. i assembled these into a huge banner with a hanging sleeve at the back and 2" sashing strips separating all 30 squares. i'll take a photo when they hang it up in the school hall - there's nowhere in my house big enough to hang it or lay it flat to photograph it. posted by melanie rimmer at 7:23 pm 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts wednesday, february 13, 2008 authentic entertainment all this week i'm quilting and singing. at the rehearsal for elijah last night it occurred to me that i enjoy the rehearsal process as much as i enjoy the actual performances. from the point of view of the audience, the performance seems to be the important thing. but if there was some way i could wave a magic wand and give a good performance without all the trouble of rehearsals, i'd hate that because often the performance passes in a flash, but the rehearsals can be a blast. well, sometimes. sometimes they're dull and repetitive, or really hard and tiring. but on the whole it's a thrill to get together with a hundred or so other people and create something out of nothing, polish it until it is as good as it can be, and then show it to an appreciative audience. so, much like my quilting and other crafting, i do it because i get a buzz from the process, not just as a means to an end. there are much quicker and cheaper ways to obtain bedcoverings than quilting them yourself. but they're not nearly as much fun. another reason i love choral singing and crafting is that the end result is unique, a consequence of the particular ingredients (e.g. the individual singers and conductor, or the particular pieces of fabric you had). to me that makes it much more precious and worthwhile than a mass-produced item. i had much more fun at the manchester lesbian and gay chorus concert i attended the other week than i have ever had at any hollywood movie i've ever seen. somehow the hollywood movies have a slick, corporate feel. even though movies cost millions of dollars to make, and i'm sure all the actors, writers, cameramen and everybody else gave it their all, yet they feel cheap and disposable to me. tv shows are usually even worse. but when i go to the theatre to see a play, or to a concert, i get a sense that i'm seeing something unique, something with an authenticity that hollywood movies and tv shows entirely lack. my brain is engaged, not dulled, and the performers are communicating with me personally. if i nod off, or clap half-heartedly, or start doing the crossword, the performers will detect my indifference and it will put them off. but my involvement and appreciation will energise the performers to give their best performance. when was the last time you went to the theatre or to a concert? or to a comedy club or a folk club? how about enjoying some authentic entertainment for a change? posted by melanie rimmer at 1:00 pm 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, music, philosophy tuesday, february 12, 2008 my scrap quilt warning - if you habitually read bean sprouts with images turned off and if you think this quilt might be for you and if you want it to be a surprise, then don't click on the picture. my scrap quilt is coming along nicely. the centre (the bit made up of patches) is finished, and the borders are added. in other words the top (the bit you're supposed to look at) is complete and it's time to baste the quilt sandwich. i made a back by sewing together about a dozen biggish pieces of fabric from my stash, then i laid it on the floor and placed the batting (stuffing) and the top onto it. because the top is large these three layers need to be held together temporarily whilst i am machine-quilting it. at first i tried to do it with a quilt tack gun. this is the same thing shops use to hold price labels onto clothes with a plastic tag. unfortunately when i had shot hundreds of little plastic tags through the quilt and turned it over there were lots of wrinkles and folds on the back. this is no good, but i couldn't face snipping the tags and basting it with the gun again because my back was in agony. i had to try another way. i've never used spray baste before. it's a sort of glue you spray onto the batting and lie the fabric on top. you can unpeel it and reposition if it isn't quite right. i bought a can and gave it a try - now i'm a reluctant convert. a convert because it does exactly what it says on the tin. reluctant because i'm not happy about relying on a product that comes in an aerosol can when there is a low-impact alternative. however i had to balance the impact on the environment with the impact on my back, and the spray can came out a clear winner (but i've been told that a basting technique explained in harriet hargrave's book heirloom machine quilting will solve all my problems - i'll let you know how it goes when the book arrives). by eleven o'clock last night the quilt was basted to my satisfaction. this morning i made a label and slip-stitched it to the back, so the quilting stitches will go all the way through it and make the label impossible to remove. and i've begun to stitch-in-the-ditch (machine quilt straight lines along all the major seams). once that's done the fun can start and i can add decorative free-motion quilting - a bit like free-hand drawing with a sewing machine. i still have no idea what designs i will use. that's how i usually work - i create one stage at a time and then stare at it for a bit until inspiration strikes about what to do next. i don't usually plan the whole quilt with blocks, setting, borders, backing, quilting and binding all clear in my head before i begin work. it could be weeks before this quilt is finished. it depends how carried away i get with the quilting. i usually quilt things to death, with lots of very close stitching lines. but this is a big quilt and i might be able to resist the temptation to stipple all over it as that would take forever. i think a few big motifs are more in order for the centre, with some kind of pattern in the border, such as feathers. posted by melanie rimmer at 2:42 pm 8 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, quilts saturday, february 09, 2008 how to make a quilt i have shown you two ways to make patchwork using recycled fabrics - english paper piecing and crazy patchwork. but how do you turn your patchwork into a finished piece? a patchwork is just a piece of fabric made from lots of smaller pieces sewn together. you can use it to make anything you would make out of fabric - curtains, tablecloth, clothes and so on. but traditionally the crafts of patchwork and quilting are closely associated, and most people who make patchwork want to turn it into a quilt. there are a number of ways to do this, but i'm going to show you a way that is quick and suitable for a recycled quilt made of lots of different types of fabric. fine hand-quilting would be difficult or impossible on such a quilt, so instead i'm going to show you a utility quilting technique called tieing or knotting. click on any of the pictures to see a larger version. 1. a quilt is three layers of fabric held together with stitches. the top layer is your patchwork. the middle layer is the stuffing or batting. you can use an old blanket, perhaps one that is too worn to use anymore, or one from the charity (thrift) shop. if you do use an old blanket, give is a good wash and dry first. alternatively you can use purpose-made quilt wadding from a quilting or craft store. be sure to read the instructions - some of them need to be pre-washed or they will shrink dramatically and ruin your quilt. the bottom layer is the quilt back. it's often a single large piece of fabric, or it can be pieced together from smaller bits. an old sheet is fine for our recyled quilt project. 2. lay out the quilt back on the floor or a table if it fits, with the wrong side up. smooth it out so there are no wrinkles. carefully lay the batting on top, so there are no wrinkles in either layer. carefully lay the patchwork on top of this, right side up. take time to ensure all three layers are smooth and wrinkle-free. the bottom two layers should be rather bigger than the patchwork. the batting should be perhaps 2" bigger, and the back about 4" bigger. this is known as your quilt sandwich. 3. now you are going to secure the three layers of your quilt sandwich together with a series of square knots, at about 6" intervals. you choose where you are going to place the knots. at the corners of your blocks? at the centres? corners and centres? it's up to you. don't use regular sewing cotton thread - pick something heavier, such as embroidery cotton or perle. thread your needle with a long thread - you're going to make lots of knots one after another and cut the threads afterwards. pass the needle through the quilt and up again, leaving a short "tail". ensure you caught all three layers, and didn't somehow miss the quilt back. make a square knot (remember left over right, right over left) and tie tightly, holding the quilt sandwich together tightly. do not cut the thread. 4. now move along to the next point you're going to make a knot, and do the same thing. make sure you leave enough thread between two knots so that the quilt stays lying flat. what i mean is, don't pull the thread between one knot and another so the quilt puckers. keep making knots until you run out of thread, then rethread and start again. 5. once you have knotted the whole quilt, which should be pretty speedy, you can go back and trim all the long threads. give every knot one last tug to make sure it is tight and will not come undone, then trim the tails to your desired length. i don't like big long "tassels" but some people prefer that look. if you trim them too short, though, the knots may come undone. there is a way to knot a quilt with a sewing machine. instead of making knots by hand, you machine stitch on the spot, then make about four long but closely-spaced zig-zag stitches, then stitch on the spot again, and that replaces a knot. sounds quicker than tying, doesn't it? but to make sure the quilt sandwich stays flat and smooth you have to baste it together somehow, either with safety pins or long hand-stitches, whilst it is lying flat on the floor. it seems to me if you're going to do that, you might as well tie it on the floor and that would actually be quicker than basting by hand and then tieing it by machine. 6. you're almost done. now you just need to bind your quilt to tidy up the edges. trim the batting to exactly the same size as the patchwork. trim the back of the quilt to about 2" larger than the quilt. fold the backing over the patchwork, enclosing the batting. then fold the raw edge of the backing under by 1". pin in place, all the way around the quilt. 7. handstitch the binding in place (slipstitched with normal sewing thread) and that's it! you should seriously consider adding your name, location and date to the back of the quilt, even if only with a fabric marker pen. if you use these instructions to make a recycled patchwork quilt, i'd love to see a picture of it. email me, and let me know if you're happy for your photo to be published on bean sprouts. this is part 3 of a 3-part series. part 1 is how to make patchwork and part 2 is another way to make patchwork. posted by melanie rimmer at 3:09 pm 5 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, quilts friday, february 08, 2008 another way to make patchwork yesterday i showed you how to recycle old clothes and textiles using the technique known as english paper piecing. there is another way to make patchwork that is also well-suited to recycling fabrics of mixed weights, and that is crazy patchwork. in crazy patchwork, scraps of fabric are stitched onto a foundation fabric. you might wonder why, if you already have a perfectly good piece of fabric, you'd want to sew more bits of fabric all over it. well for one thing, you don't have to use a perfectly good piece of fabric for the foundation. you could use a worn sheet that is getting too thin for further use, or you could use an old tablecloth that is stained beyond redemption. for another thing, by adding more layers you make the cloth heavier and more suited for bedding. also the end result is more decorative than a plain piece of fabric. and finally, it's a lot of fun. 1. i don't recommend you just start sewing fabric to one end of a bedsheet and keep going until it is all covered. it would be too unwieldy. better to start by cutting your foundation fabric into smaller squares. how big depends on the size of your scraps. if you have a lot of quite large scraps, choose a large block size, maybe 12" square. if your scraps are all pretty small 6" might be a better size. well, personally, i would use 6.5" squares, so when i sew them back together with a 1/4" seam allowance, the finished squares are 6" exactly. 2. pin a scrap of fabric on the foundation square, with the right side up. 3. pin another scrap of fabric right side up, slightly overlapping the first. 4. now stitch through all three layers of fabric using a decorative stitch that covers the raw edge. don't panic! this isn't as hard as it sounds. use a thicker thread than regular sewing cotton - embroidery thread is good and it looks nice. avoid metallic threads unless you're already experienced at using them, as they can be hard to work with. the simplest decorative stitch is buttonhole stitch. you'll quickly get good at this. if you want to advance to herringbone stitch, or chain stitch, or even more exotic stitches, be my guest. but if you stick to buttonhole stitch you'll still have a beautiful patchwork. 5. pin on a third patch, overlapping the first two, and stitch all three layers at the join. keep adding patches until your foundation square is covered. remove the pins. trim off any parts of patches that overlap the edges of the foundation square. 6. keep making squares until you have as many as you want. sew them together, either by hand or with a sewing machine. 7. that's it. as promised, i will soon show you how to make your patchwork items into a quilt. as crazy patchwork is heavier than english patchwork, you could hem the edges and use it as a summer bedcovering without quilting it. or you could use it as a decorative tablecloth, make it into clothes or curtains or anything else. the victorians used this technique to use up every single scrap of expensive velvet and brocade fabrics left over from dresmaking. they made some absolutely stunning quilts. this is part 2 of a 3-part series. part 1 is how to make patchwork and part 3 is how to make a quilt. posted by melanie rimmer at 8:54 am 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, quilts thursday, february 07, 2008 how to make patchwork there are many kinds of patchwork. i'm hooked on the kind that uses expensive top-quality printed cotton, fancy tools such as rotary cutters and self healing mats, and involves very precise measuring, cutting and sewing - a single thread-width too wide or too small can make the difference between a lovely quilt and a lumpy wonky disaster. but there is another kind of patchwork (actually there are several) more suited to recycling used clothing, upholstery fabric, and so on. it uses paper or card templates to ensure accuracy, even with fabrics of different weights or stretchiness. it's called english paper piecing and my mum taught me to do it when i was very young. i'm going to teach it to you now. 1. measure a square accurately and cut it out of heavy card. use this as your template to cut lots more squares of waste paper or card. if your fabrics are quite heavy, card is better. paper is adequate for lighter fabrics such as cotton. you can use any size of square. bigger squares mean less sewing and your quilt will be finished quicker. smaller squares make better use of your fabric with less waste. 4" squares is a good compromise. 2. cut pieces of fabric that are larger than your papers all around. you need at least 1/4" overlap at all points. place a paper square on to the wrong side of the fabric scrap, then fold the edges over and secure. 3. traditionally you secure the fabric on to the papers with large tacking stitches, and this is what i always do. but gabrielle from permaculture in brittany uses masking tape, and stephanie from a roker artist once used staples (she was using very heavy upholstery fabrics - staples would make big holes in finer fabric so i don't recommend them). check that the pretty side of the fabric is showing - if the grotty side is showing you've tacked your fabric on upside-down. 4. when you have a stack of tacked (or taped) fabric squares, lie two of them face-to-face and stitch them together with small neat stitches. just nip the edges of the fabric. try not to sew through the paper, although it can't be helped sometimes. open your pieces out flat - they should lie nicely and the stitches should be unobtrusive. 5. keep sewing squares together. don't remove the papers until the square is entirely surrounded by other squares. 6. that's it. you can stop when you run out of fabric or when your patchwork is as big as you want it. i'll write another post soon about how to turn your patchwork into a quilt. but you could also turn it into a tablecloth (just hem the edges), curtains (there are instructions all over the internet for how to make curtains), clothing, a duvet cover, or anything you like. other shapes you can use are hexagons (if you arrange the colours carefully you can make the traditional pattern known as grandmother's flower garden), diamonds (careful colour placement makes the traditional pattern known as tumbling blocks), rectangles, lozenges or any other shape that tesselates. this is part 1 of a three part series. part 2 is another way to make patchwork and part 3 is how to make a quilt. posted by melanie rimmer at 11:16 am 11 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, quilts friday, february 01, 2008 piecing together the scraps i have a book called zen and the art of quilting. someone bought it for me as a joke, but it's true that when you're creating a quilt something funny happens to your brain and you enter a trace-like state in which deep and philosophical ideas come to you. i was thinking about this scrap quilt i'm making. the components are scraps (hence the name). tiny pieces of fabric, some only an inch square, left over from other projects. these were the pieces that weren't wanted. the bits left over. and i'm taking them and turning them into a new quilt. i'm making something beautiful and functional and meaningful (i intend to give the quilt as a gift when it's finished) out of rubbish that should have gone in the bin. it's frugal. it's recycling. it's good for the planet. but that's not what struck me. what struck me was the idea that this rubbish has become elevated into something very precious indeed. i identified with these little odd-shaped pieces of fabric. i wondered if they felt happy to have been saved from the rubbish bin. if they felt proud to become part of a beautiful gift, something that will (i hope) be cherished and used for many years. were they sad when they were rejected from the other quilts, when neigbouring bits of fabric were used but they were tossed on the floor? do they feel grateful to have been redeemed? see what i mean about "something funny happens to your brain when you're sewing"? when i identified with the scraps in this way, i mused about my own life. about the times when i felt like a failure, when i felt rejected. but after these experiences came other times when i succeeded and was honoured. and i thought about the passage in the bible that says "the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone". maybe there's no such thing as a failure, and there's always another chance to be a success. maybe there's no such thing as a scrap, only fabric for another quilt. maybe there's no such thing as rubbish, only material for a different use. posted by melanie rimmer at 6:23 pm 11 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, philosophy, quilts wednesday, january 30, 2008 scrap quilt my scrap quilt is coming along nicely. it's not a quick project. quick quilts inevitably mean large blocks and minimal sewing. sewing lots of teeny tiny pieces inevitably takes a lot of time. it's a common trade-off. usually being frugal takes more time. it takes longer to microwave a ready meal than to cook a meal from scratch. updated at 19:23 - of course i meant it takes longer to cook a meal from scratch than to microwave a ready meal. doh! but the home-cooked meal is cheaper, tastes better, is healthier and has less impact on the environment. sometimes though time is at a premium (when you're busy making a patchwork quilt, for example), and ready meals become an attractive option. ed made hollands pies and oven chips for dinner the other night, so i didn't have to stop sewing to make something proper, and i was extremely grateful. posted by melanie rimmer at 4:35 pm 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family, food, frugal, philosophy sunday, january 27, 2008 quilting bug i haven't done any patchwork and quilting for ages now, but the other day the bug bit me and i pulled out all my stash and spread it over the living room floor. i came across a bag of scraps, some of them only an inch square, given to me a while ago by friend. she and i had started sewing them into 6.5" square blocks, but i had put them away and done no more. i decided to resume this project. in the last couple of days i have doubled the number of blocks, and have decided how i'm going to "set" the blocks (arrange them into a pattern). i know how big the finished quilt will be and who it is for (shhh, it's a secret). i don't know what i'm going to do about borders yet, and i've only got the vaguest idea about backing, and don't even ask me about the quilting until it's all put together. it's a proper thrift quilt, made almost entirely from fabric i already have, left over from other projects. i'm going to have to buy the batting (stuffing) for it, but i hope i can do all the rest from my stash. posted by melanie rimmer at 5:22 pm 8 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, quilts thursday, january 03, 2008 recycled bird feeder a friend of mine from a usenet group, ivan reid, invented a quick and easy recycled bird feeder using a pringles tin and a sardine can. there are instructions of how to make it on his webpage. he says the design has been slightly refined over the years: you might want to note that it finally succumbed to the elements after about 2-1/2 years. also it's very windy in my backyard and i kept losing the cap off the top, so i cut the top off a 1-1/2 litre mineral-water bottle just below the neck and slipped that over the top to keep the rain out. i like it a lot. of course, it's not exactly a thing of beauty. but i don't put out birdfeeders to adorn the garden. i put them out to attract the birds, which are more beautiful than any garden ornament. posted by melanie rimmer at 1:13 pm 14 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: biodiversity, crafts, friends, frugal, recycling saturday, december 29, 2007 plans for 2008 as 2007 draws to a close, what are our plans for 2008? 1. i've signed up for a 9-week beekeeping course run by my local beekeeping association. i'm hoping to supplement what i learned on the 2-day intensive course i attended last spring. maybe i'll even get a honey harvest from my bees, unlike 2007. 2. we now have a full allotment plot. with any luck the weather in 2008 will be warmer and drier than in 2007, and we can raise a fabulous harvest. ed wants to grow giant pumpkins on our new section of plot. 3. we've discussed going on holiday to cornwall this summer. we went down there in 1999 to see the solar eclipse and had a wonderful time. we'd like to take ed's telescope and view the stars without the light pollution we have here. i want to visit the eden centre. can any bean sprouts readers recommend other places to visit and things to do in cornwall? 4. i'd like to learn a new craft. i have books about hand-made paper and hand-made books. that sounds like a lot of fun. 5. i want to add a regular podcast to this blog. it would be a 20ish minute-long mp3 you could download and listen to at your computer or on your ipod. it would be about the same topics i write about - fruit and vegetable growing, beekeeping, poultry, sustainable living etc. and i'd include interviews with interesting and knowledgeable people. i hope to produce one a month, and see if it is popular. that's it for plans. i have shedloads of vague ideas (i'd like to mill my own wheat and make a loaf of bread absolutely from scratch) and grand ambitions (i'd like to buy or rent a plot of land and keep some livestock. goats perhaps, or pigs). and i'm sure lots of interesting things will happen in 2008 that aren't planned or foreseen. but for fixed plans, that's my lot. what are your plans for 2008? posted by melanie rimmer at 8:14 am 16 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: allotment, bees, crafts sunday, december 16, 2007 tin star i made this christmas decoration using the tin base from a cardboard tub of dried milk. lots of cardboard tubs have metal bases - cocoa powder, drinking chocolate etc. i cut them apart with scissors so i can recycle the cardboard and the metal. but i've always wondered if there was a creative way to reuse the metal disc. i marked out the star on the tin disc with a felt tip pen. then i placed a piece of scrap wood underneath the disc, and punched the holes with a hammer and nail. it only took a few minutes. if you saved a bunch of the discs it wouldn't take long to make a whole heap of them. i think it looks quite effective - not as dorky as some home-made decorations can be. what do you think? cartoon by climate cartoons. click on the image to see the whole strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 4:14 pm 12 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, recycling older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ▼ 2012 (1) ▼ february (1) happy valentine's day, ed ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.