bean sprouts one family's search for the good life saturday, december 26, 2009 happy st stephen's day today is st stephen's day, the day good king wenceslas took his famous stroll. my dad assures me that in ireland it is a bigger occasion than christmas day. it is traditional for boys and men to try to catch and kill a wren on st stephen's day. why, i cannot discover. but they then take it round all the houses and are given money. the wren, the wren, the king of all birds, st. stephen's day was caught in the furze, although he was little his honour was great, jump up me lads and give us a treat. posted by melanie rimmer at 1:46 pm 5 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest sunday, december 20, 2009 sunday funnies happy solstice, bean sprouts readers. posted by melanie rimmer at 11:17 pm 2 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest friday, december 18, 2009 ingenious green pizza box this one has been doing the rounds on the internet for a while, but just in case you haven't seen it yet... posted by melanie rimmer at 10:09 am 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest thursday, december 17, 2009 copenhagen - the house is on fire! sometimes, when our house is looking very messy, i might balk at the idea of tidying it by myself and ask the kids to lend a hand. "but i need to finish this level of my computer game!" "ummm, i suddenly need the toilet. see you!" "i'm too little! i'm tired! will you help me?" ah well, it's human nature. but if the house was on fire i don't think i'd get these responses. i think it would be amazing how unimportant computer games and lavatory needs and tired little legs would become. the family would respond quickly and efficiently in saving everyone's lives. so why is it that the climate talks at copenhagen are 18 hours behind, and look like they will result in no agreement at all? this isn't a negotiation about cabbage trading. it's no time to quibble and stall to protect some finagling point of national interests. our house is on fire! for god's sake, will everybody shut up and grab a bucket? posted by melanie rimmer at 11:06 am 4 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest tuesday, december 08, 2009 christmas concerts sorry i haven't posted for over a week, but ed was away in france again and i was gloomy. he is home now, hopefully until christmas at least, and i am much happier now. i had a lovely weekend, filled with music. on saturday my choir, st george's singers, gave our christmas concert. the church was lit by candles and filled with the scent of mulled wine and mince pies, which were served in the interval. the programme was a mix of choral and audience carols, some accompanied by organ and some by the poynton vbs brass band, who also played some festive pieces of their own. there were readings by children from local schools, including my daughter eleanor. i might possibly be biased but she is a marvellous reader and i was very proud. as this year is the 250th anniversary of the death of handel, we also performed three choruses from messiah (with the brass band, which was heaps of fun), and topped off the concert with a performance of the hallelujah chorus. then on monday it was my turn to be in the audience as eleanor performed in a christmas concert given by poynton music academy. ellie plays violin in the academy's "beginner's strings group". i loved listening to the various children's groups performing christmas music. i was involved in children's orchestras, choirs and other groups when i was young and it is lovely to watch a new generation setting out on a life of music-making. ellie was exhilarated before, during and after her performance and i am sure she is now as hooked on performing music as i am, which pleases me no end. so now i feel thoroughly christmassy. stephanie and her kids are visiting this weekend to help us put up the christmas decorations, and i hope lindsey and andrew will be able to visit too so we can sing carols together (perhaps accompanied by eleanor on violin). there's really nothing like christmas music to get into the festive spirit. have you been to any carol concerts yet, or are you planning to? posted by melanie rimmer at 10:18 am 5 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest newer posts older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ► 2012 (1) ► february (1) ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ▼ 2009 (32) ▼ december (5) happy st stephen's day sunday funnies ingenious green pizza box copenhagen - the house is on fire! christmas concerts ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.