bean sprouts one family's search for the good life showing posts with label interviews. show all posts showing posts with label interviews. show all posts wednesday, april 18, 2007 interview with andy and dave from selfsufficientish.com one of my favourite websites is selfsufficientish.com, the fabulous online resource for urban self-sufficiency run by twin brothers dave and andy hamilton. they both agreed to answer my questions about self sufficiency. bean-sprouts: how did you first get interested in self-sufficiency? andy: as a child i remember making nettle soup and picking blackberries. we also had some apple trees in the back garden and a small veggie patch. as i have got older it has been more about asking myself "can i do that instead of buying it?" when the answer is yes - whether it be growing my own veggies or making a fridge - then i will give it a go. for me it is about under-consumption, trying to live as gently on the planet as possible. food miles make up for a lot of the carbon emissions and by growing my own and promoting growing your own i believe this can make a difference to the amount of fuel used. dave: my childhood experiences were of course very similar to andy’s. not long after living at home i moved to a house with rhubarb and nettles growing in abundance in the back yard. the garden was tiny but i was still amazed by the amount i got from these two crops without having to do very much (not even sowing the seed). some years after that i experimented with growing some herbs then branched out to growing potatoes. the following year i was living in oxford and had my first full size garden veggie patch. despite the garden being over shadowed by trees on all sides i got a bumper crop of carrots, courgettes, parsnips, potatoes and in the following spring purple sprouting broccoli. this soon got me hooked and i launched into a two year experiment of growing the majority of my own food. this was a partial success as i managed to put something on the table every day for a year. since then i have always grown something and am constantly improving my wild food knowledge. bean-sprouts: what are you totally self-sufficient in? andy: i am totally self-sufficient in some herbs such as chives, rosemary, parsley and fennel. this year i am going to up the ante and introduce some more of the lesser grown herbs such as hyssop and chervil. last summer i was almost totally self sufficient in vegetables. my food bill for myself and my girlfriend was around £5 a week. it would have been well into the springtime this year if my freezer had not packed up, although i still have beetroot both stored and pickled and a load of jam. i am moving towards self-sufficiency in booze also, with a brew on the go almost all of the time and some stored up. i would say that every week of the year i have something that i have grown. i hope to store a lot more this year so that every meal i can have at least one thing on my plate that i have grown. i also tend to forage for mushrooms and other wild foods. if i find the time i dry my mushrooms, which keep for about a year. it depends on what you call self sufficient for other areas in my life as i cook all my meals from scratch, own a bike not a car and mend clothes instead of buying new ones. i intend to make a solar hot water heater and solar ovens when the weather picks up. i hope to be self-sufficient in hot water for washing up and for some meals as a result. dave: it depends on the time of year for me. by the end of this month (march) i will be self-sufficient in salad greens and this year have planted enough fruit to be self-sufficient between at least june and october. this is my first year on my allotment in bristol so all going well it will be from summer this year then ongoing that i will be self-sufficient in most of my food. i decided not to buy seed trays this year as i am recycling old yogurt pots, mushroom and drinks containers for my seedlings so i am also self-sufficient in those. similarly i would have made enough compost to be self-sufficient in that soon. i intend to build a shed from scrap material at the allotment and will be harvesting rain water from the roof for my crops. i’m also reusing my bath water at home in my third floor flat for my seedlings. a handful of other things myself and andy do to be a little more self-sufficient (or self-sufficientish) · a by-weekly forage in bristol (sometimes more often in mushroom season) · both of us own a solar phone charger · my desk top computer is made from salvaged parts. · andy makes bikes from salvaged parts · making own cleaning products · re-cycling and re-using everything possible! bean-sprouts: what was your goal in setting up selfsufficientish.com? andy: no real goal as it were; we just wanted to share our experiences with others. i guess the closest to a goal would be the ideology of selfsufficientish, which is to reduce your impact on the planet by doing as much yourself as you can. dave: i very much saw the website as something that went hand in hand with what i wanted to do. my eventual goal has always been living in a self-sufficient environment and i saw the website as a way of sharing what could be done whilst living within the constraints of every day life. at the time i was a student living in a shared rented house and as most students are i was completely skint. rather than let this limit me i decided it would be good to share the experiences i had in my chosen lifestyle. it was also a virtual way of sharing ideas. bean-sprouts: what advice would you give someone just starting out in "greening" their lifestyle? dave: don’t look at all the things you can’t do and let it put you off but see all the things you can no matter how small they might be. the first easy example that is always used is to change your light bulbs to energy savers as this is a sure fire way to cut down on carbon and reduce your electricity bill. other tips are to put backs on your curtains to conserve heat, re-use your bath water in the garden or with houseplants, grow your own salad leaves or herbs on a windowsill. in short try and see what you do from day to day and see if there is a greener alternative – there usually is if you look for it. andy: i could not agree more with dave on this question. although i would add don’t fly to the list. i am off on holiday to germany soon by train – my girlfriend is flying and i shall meet her there. i am not saying this makes me a better person, if i was some kind of eco-saint then i would not even use the train and instead cycle everywhere. i do think that we fly too much and even if you don’t think that man is changing the climate, flying still pollutes more than a train does. bean-sprouts: what does the future hold for selfsufficientish.com? andy: we have just recently signed up with hodder and stoughton to write a book. it was not what we intended when we first started, but is very welcome. we hope that we can extend our message to much wider audience. we hope that it will be a book that you will be able to turn to whenever you want to do anything selfsufficientish. so it will cover topics from jam making, foraging and vegetable growing but also cover ethical shopping and how to make do and mend. we don’t want it to be another book that tells you that you are living your life un-environmentally, its not going to be written to give anyone a lecture. instead we hope that people will be inspired to make small changes that make a real difference. we hope it to be the book that every selfsufficientisher, in fact everyone, will find invaluable. if you live on a small holding and have tons of spare time or in a bedsit and work all the hours god sends then you will find something you can do in this book. the book is called the selfsufficientish bible and is out in may 2008. thanks a lot, dave and andy. good luck with the book, i'll look forward to that coming out. posted by melanie rimmer at 7:43 am 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: books, food, foraging, gardening, interviews, preserving, recycling, self sufficiency monday, march 19, 2007 interview with friends of the earth i am a big supporter of friends of the earth, the environmental campaigning organisation. in particular their campaigns on food and farming are close to my heart. richard hines from the friends of the earth real food & farming team agreed to answer some of my questions. bean-sprouts: a lot of families are on a very tight budget and find it hard to afford fresh fruit and veg, never mind buying organic. what would you suggest? richard: get down to your local market or greengrocer and you might be surprised how reasonable their prices are. studies have shown that they're cheaper than the supermarkets for fruit & veg which means you can eat tasty fresh produce on a tight budget. and if you spend an extra few minutes cooking from fresh instead of buying ready-made meals you'll save loads of money too, and have a much healthier diet. bean-sprouts: i know all the reasons to buy organic, and fair trade, and local. but it's rare to be able to get all three in one product. when i have to choose between them, which should i go for and why? richard: each product is different so there isn't a golden rule for choosing what to buy. but you can go a long way to reducing your environmental impact by buying seasonal, local produce from local shops wherever possible. that way you'll be benefiting the environment by cutting down on food miles whilst supporting local farmers and shops. but if you simply must have those bananas and chocolate then look for the fair trade version. and if pesticides are your main concern then organic produce will be your best bet. bean-sprouts: another ethical dilemma is when big companies with poor ethical or environmental records produce certified organic or fair trade products alongside the rest of their range. should conscientious buyers choose these products or continue avoiding the company? richard: when choosing what to buy, shoppers should certainly bear in mind who they're buying from as well as what they're buying. simply having a few green or ethical products doesn't hide the fact that big companies damage the environment and often treat suppliers unfairly. if a company has a poor record, seek out alternatives. and if your local shops don't have the products you want, ask for them! bean-sprouts: how can i be sure that food i buy does not contain genetically modified ingredients? richard: gm products have to be labelled so they should be easy to spot, and thanks to opposition from shoppers there still aren't many out there. unfortunately there is a loophole when it comes to meat and dairy. although they need to be labelled if they contain gm ingredients themselves, products from animals fed gm (such as gm soya) do not have to be labelled as such. the only way to guarantee that the food you're eating doesn't come from animals fed gm is to buy organic. thank you, richard. that was very interesting and helpful. i must admit i sometimes buy non-organic meat, but now i know it may come from animals fed on gm ingredients i will avoid it religiously in future. posted by melanie rimmer at 7:02 am 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: ethics, food, interviews, organic monday, january 01, 2007 world exclusive interview stonehead is a good friend of bean-sprouts, and a regular commenter. he has an active blog of his own where he talks about life on a croft in north-east scotland, environmental and political issues. i'm fascinated because he has gone much further along the road we are travelling, buying a smallholding and living off the land. i interviewed him exclusively for bean-sprouts. bean-sprouts: describe a typical day for you. stonehead: hmm, no such thing as a typical day! i get up between 5.30 and 6am. i have a shower every second day to conserve water, then it's straight into getting all the breakfast things ready before making packed lunches. i then head out to do the morning chores, feeding and mucking out the chickens and pigs. with the chores done, i head inside for breakfast with the rest of the family. the other half heads off for work, the big lad gets the school bus, and i take the wee 'un to playgroup. if it's playgroup duty day, then i'm out until noon or so helping keep an eye on the children with lots of making stuff and story telling. if it's not playgroup duty, then i have from 9.30 until 11.30 to get jobs done. this can be building chicken houses, working in the vegetable patch, working with the soft fruit and fruit trees, mowing grass, planting, topping, baking, cider making, brewing, preserving. after collecting the wee 'un i either finish off the morning's work or play outside games with the wee 'un. if working, we turn it into a play session as well so he can help with parts of the job. the wee 'un helps me make lunch, we then do some quick baking before having a quiet play and do some reading while we wait for the big lad to get home and for the bakes to cook. with the big lad home, we feed the chickens then the boys play together outside while i do more jobs. from around 4.30pm until 5.30/6pm it's a repeat of the morning chores, the other half usually gets home just as we finish. we eat between 7.15 and 8pm, so that the boys can chill out for a while, then off to bed. then it's tidy up and relax time. i try to fit in a bit of blogging around then, but usually it's more like 10pm until 11pm as it's nice to spend a bit of time with the other half! weekends are even busier. bean-sprouts: what made you decide to pursue this lifestyle? stonehead: we don't regard it as a lifestyle. it's our way of life. i've always wanted either a small farm of my own or a yacht. i like working with animals, i like working the land, i like tinkering, and i like working hard for myself and my family. i'm a pragmatic green - i don't buy the spiritual, hippy, pagan thing at all. i think we have one world, we have to tread lightly, we have to use resources sparingly and we have to be responsible for our actions. i do get a lot out of being outside in all weathers and enjoy being part of the natural world, but i'm not the communing with nature sort. one thing i definitely am is an anti-consumer. i have a pathological hatred of being sold stuff that i don't want or need. i accept that i and my family have certain needs that can only be met by shopping, but i try to do so as little as possible. i'm a huge fan of bartering, trading and giving, i love making things and i like being minimalist. this can cause friction with the other half and the boys, but as we're generally in accord most of the time i can fudge on certain things (like tv!). while i was very good at my career, i was always conscious that i was mainly generating money for people for whom i had little time but i persisted until we had sufficient money to be able to just afford the croft. however, i regarded the whole wage-slave thing as total bs, so once we were in a position to escape to the hills, i grasped it with both hands and got out of there. so why do i pursue this life? because it's "my" life, just as it's also the other half's. we both choose to share it with each other. (the poor lads haven't much choice at this point!) posted by melanie rimmer at 9:28 am 8 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: chickens, construction, food, friends, interviews, philosophy older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ▼ 2012 (1) ▼ february (1) happy valentine's day, ed ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.