bean sprouts one family's search for the good life sunday, june 27, 2010 peace in the garden i can't do everything, but if i do the important things first, take one step at a time, and accept the help of my family, i can find peace. i am sitting in the garden right now with an ice cold smoothies made partly from my own strawberries, the first of which ripened today. the house is clean and tidy. the lawn is mowed and the plants watered and fed, as are the fish and the chickens. the washing is hanging on the line. all my essays are marked. the garden looks great - the beans have climbed to the top of their bamboo pyramid and are starting to climb up the wisteria. the tomatoes are growing big and strong and starting to make flowers. the spuds are growing strongly, despite the dog's penchant for digging them up and eating them. i've been harvesting salad leaves for a while now, but am still awaiting the first radish harvest. the herbs are looking great, especially the mint. the rhubarb is doing well as are the courgettes. the garden is also full of flowers, and bees, and butterflies (i am not a fan of butterflies. oh they look pretty and are harmless enough, but the caterpillars are buggers). peace? yes, i'd say so. posted by melanie rimmer at 5:48 pm email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest 8 comments: stone art's blog said... yum they look good :p 12:36 pm layla said... they look pretty! it seems strawberries ripen later in uk than here? (at least something, if you won football!! :( grr!) thanks for info about the new color schemes, i went for new look too!:) glad you managed to find some peace! yay! 5:18 pm yellow said... because it's rained the last few days i haven't had to water, which i miss because it gives me quiet time to check over everything plant by plant. 8:33 am freerangegirl said... strawbs look lovely - the real trick is getting them into the house before they get scoffed! 12:00 am matron said... it is just the most perfect time of year in the veggie garden. quite right to sit back and enjoy all your hard work. 8:32 am z said... plenty of butterflies, like bees, are a sign of healthy biodiversity, however. where pesticides are used, you don't get butterflies. having said that, cabbage whites are not welcomed in the least - but i always leave a patch of nettles for caterpillars. 2:39 pm solar energy facts said... nothing like a nice cold smoothing knowing all the fruits in it are from your own garden! nice. 9:59 am solar energy facts said... sorry guys, this is my site:) please edit the last post admin. many thanks. http://cheapestgaselectricity.org/solar-power/the-important-solar-energy-facts-making-solar-energy-a-reliable-alternative-energy-source/ 10:00 am post a comment newer post older post home subscribe to: post comments (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ► 2012 (1) ► february (1) ▼ 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ▼ june (16) peace in the garden happy solstice take your canvas bags ratatouille low-hanging fruit sunday funnies world cup new look for bean sprouts relocating feral bees green britain day 2010 cowslip wine eat local, wear - ? folk on the coast ed and steph (with help from me and guy) spruced ... having a wonderful day in the garden with family ... a fresh burst of energy ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.