bean sprouts one family's search for the good life showing posts with label moon. show all posts showing posts with label moon. show all posts saturday, february 28, 2009 wet moon i saw a beautiful "wet moon" tonight; the crescent moon is tilted on its side. it looks like a bowl, or a smile. if you are in the northern hemisphere and the sky is clear where you are, why not go and have a look at the wet moon? as in the photo, venus is quite close by the moon tonight. i used an astronomy website to make the following sky map. you'll need to know your latitude and longitude to get an accurate map for your position, but thanks to the wonders of the internet it's very easy to find that out too. i used this latitude and longitude finder. if you plan on a bit of stargazing tonight, you could print off a star chart for your own location so you know what you are looking at. posted by melanie rimmer at 7:57 pm 57 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: moon friday, july 18, 2008 full moon it's a full moon tonight. you all know what that means - the moon will look like a big pale circle in the sky. did you also know it means the moon will rise at around the same time as sunset, and the moon will set around the same size as sunrise? this is because the moon is full when it is directly opposite the sky from the sun, so they can't both be in the sky at the same time. so if the moon is full tonight, what will it look like in one week's time? a. it will be totally dark b. it will be totally full c. it will be a crescent like the letter "c" d. it will be a half circle like the letter "c" e. it will be a crescent like the letter "d" f. it will be a half circle like the letter "d" the answer is d. if you live in the northern hemisphere. if you live in the southern hemisphere the answer is f. the moon completes a full cycle (new moon, waxing moon, full moon, waning moon, new moon again) in about 29 1/2 days, which is close enough to four weeks as a rule of thumb we can say it completes a quarter of its cycle in one week. this month encompasses a whole cycle quite handily, so the calendar i have reproduced above shows how the moon looks as it waxes and wanes. the thing i want you to remember is whether a "c" shape means the moon is waxing (getting bigger) or waning (getting smaller). northern hemisphere if you live in the northern hemisphere, the moon goes from dark, to a "d", to an "o", to a "c", then dark again. so the way to remember it is "doctor moon" - "d o c". got that? southern hemisphere if you live in the southern hemisphere, the moon goes from dark, to a "c", to an "o", to a "d", then dark again. the way to remember it is "the moon if a fish" - "c o d". ok? i find it oddly depressing that very few people seem to know this, but the majority of people can name jennifer aniston's husband. posted by melanie rimmer at 4:47 pm 18 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: moon monday, may 19, 2008 full moon may's full moon is on may 20th at 2:11 gmt. remember that full moon is an instant - the moment when the moon stops waxing and starts waning. it's not a date. the instant of full moon this month occurs on may 20th in some time zones and on may 19th in others. thinking about celestial mechanics is enough to make your brain dribble out of your ears, but i think i'm right in saying that wherever you live, the moon you see after nightfall on 19th may will be fuller than the moon you see after nightfall on the 20th. that's why i'm publishing this post today and not tomorrow. in india and other places close by, the full moon moment occurs on may 19th, so that is the date buddhists celebrate vesak - buddha's birthday. buddhists make a special effort to avoid harming anything for the day, they eat vegetarian food even if that isn't their usual practice, and they release birds, insects and animals as a symbol of liberation. we've had beautiful weather so far in may and i'm looking forward to getting a good view of tonight's full moon, and perhaps taking some photographs. but the beautiful photograph accompanying this article isn't mine, it's by kind permission of kerrdelune who writes beyond the fields we know. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: moon sunday, april 20, 2008 man in the moon it's a full moon tonight. the moon waxes and wanes as it goes around the earth, so in fact the full moon isn't a date but an instant - the moment when it stops waxing and starts waning. the instant of full moon this month was 10:25am universal time april 20th, several hours before i wrote this post. that time was before dawn in the usa, so actually last night's full moon was a bit fuller than tonight's will be, even though the official date of the full moon this month is 20th. it's just one of those weird facts about full moons. another weird fact about full moons is that different people see different things in the moon. i've always seen a man in the moon, and many other people can see the man, too. but in other cultures they see a rabbit, a woman, writing, a frog and many other things. it's fun to try to find other shapes and images in the patterns of seas and highlands on the moon. if you get a clear sky tonight, why not try to see some shapes you've never seen before. even though it's not quite full in some places, it will still be full enough tonight to do that. the image i've added to this post is from wikipedia and is licensed under the gnu free documentation license. i've linked the image to the wikipedia page so you can see the license if you're interested, and find out how to use the image yourself if you want to. posted by melanie rimmer at 6:59 pm 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: moon friday, march 21, 2008 lenten moon it's a full moon tonight. the reason easter is so early this year is that the full moon is only one day after the equinox. the date of easter has a complicated definition, but the short (slightly inaccurate) version is that it's the sunday after the full moon after the equinox. it's not the earliest possible date for easter - that would be march 22nd, one day earlier than this year. that won't happen until 2285, and it won't happen on march 23rd again until 2160. so nobody alive today will ever see such an early easter as this for the rest of their lives. i'm sure teachers will sigh with relief at this news, as it has really messed up the length of school terms. i hope the sky is clear tonight so i can get a good view of the march full moon, also known as the lenten moon. if the skies are clear where you are, why not wrap up warm and go and look at it? (isn't the animated picture of the phases of the moon amazing? it's by tom ruen and is public domain. click on the picture to go to the wikipedia page i got it from and find out more about it.) posted by melanie rimmer at 3:51 pm 14 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: moon thursday, february 21, 2008 top ten uses for apples (the total lunar eclipse was a washout, with a thick layer of cloud across most of britain. the alarm clock went off at 2:45 am, but when i looked out of the bedroom window all i could see was a bright orange glow caused by the street lights of manchester bouncing off the unbroken low cloud, so i rolled over and went back to sleep.) here are ten uses for too many leftover apples, hanging around in the bottom of the fruit bowl and looking unappealing. 1. tarte tatin 2. gordon tracy's favourite way of eating apples - bear with me. this is our family name for apples cored and cut into wedges, served with a dish of sugar mixed with cinnamon, for dipping. the name was a desperate attempt to trick tom, then aged 2, into eating any kind of fresh fruit or vegetable at all. he was obsessed with thunderbirds at the time, and his favourite character was gordon tracy. i offer the recipe to any parents who can't get their kids to eat fruit. feel free to rename it with your own child's favourite fictional character. 3. sourdough apple fritters 4. cheese and apple toastie - cut an apple into quarters and grate it on a cheese grater. also grate some red leicester cheese (or other cheese) and mix with the grated apple. season with sea salt, freshly ground black pepper and ground cumin. make into sandwiches with sliced wholemeal bread and toast (we use one of those electric toasted sandwich makers, but you can also do it under a grill) 5. chutney 6. i often chop an apple into my porridge or muesli for breakfast. 7. apple spiced muffins 8. stuffed baked apple - core an apple and stuff the hole with something nice - leftover christmas mincemeat works well, my dad keeps a jar of raisins soaked in rum to stuff apples with, or just improvise a mixture of raisins, porridge oats, chopped nuts, honey, or whatever you can find in the store cupboard. bake the stuffed apple either in the microwave (you don't need one of those stupid plastic doodads they sell in the bettaware catalogues, just bung it in a bowl, for heaven's sake) or in a moderate oven until the apple has softened. serve with ice cream. 9. braised red cabbage with apple (recipe is near the bottom of the page). 10. apple pie - here's a little-known secret. the best apple pies are not made with cooking apples such as bramleys. cooking apples turn to mush when you cook them. they're great for applesauce, and that's about it. if you want large succulent pieces of apple in your apple pie, use eating apples. but let's start with the pastry: you can use your own shortcrust pastry recipe, or ready-made pastry or a ready-made pie shell. here is my favourite shortcrust pastry recipe for when i'm really pushing the boat out. it makes the best ever mince pies, for example. sift 14oz plain flour into a bowl with 1 teaspoon of salt. make a well in the centre. add 8oz diced softened (really soft) unsalted butter, 4oz caster sugar, 8 egg yolks (sorry - this is not a frugal recipe unless you have your own chickens and plenty of eggs. but it really does make excellent pastry) and 1 teaspoon vanilla essence into the well. for apple pies i like to add some grated orange rind and ground cardamom, cinnamon or nutmeg. rub everything in. in fact i usually heave it all into my food processor with a dough hook attachment and let it run until it looks like pastry. bring it together into a ball and knead it lightly, then wrap it in clingfilm and chill it for at least half an hour before using. divide it into two, and roll one portion out, but it's a b****r to handle, so if it falls apart when you try to line your greased 9-10” pie tin with it, don't panic. just smoosh it back together with your knuckles, and feel free to cover any holes with leftover bits of pastry and work them in until you can't the join. put the pastry shell, and the unused portion of pastry back in the fridge whilst you sort out the filling. oh, and turn the oven on low. peel, core and roughly chop about 2lbs of eating apples. put them in a pan with the merest splash of water, 2oz sugar and a few whole cloves, cover and cook for a few minutes until the apples are tender but not mushy. carefully drain the apples. don't go banging them about or they'll go to mush. carefully put the drained apples in the bottom of the pastry shell (i don't bother picking out the cloves, i rather like the burst of tongue-numbing flavour when you bite into one in your wedge of apple pie, but if you hate that you'll have to pick them all out - i advise counting them when you put them in so you can be sure you get them all). roll out the other portion of pastry and lie it on top of the pie. pinch the edges together to seal the top layer to the bottom. make a couple of slits in the top of the pie to let any steam out and stop the pie going soggy or exploding. sprinkle generously with golden brown sugar, and bake in a low oven until it's done (i don't know how long, it depends on your oven, how big your pie dish is, how thin you rolled the pastry etc. check on it after about 25 minutes, but be ready to give it an extra 5, 10, 15 minutes or whatever until it looks golden and done. also listen to your nose - if it smells done after 20 minutes then maybe it is. have a look at it and see.) apple pie is nice hot or cold. either way, serve with custard, ice cream, or whipped cream. but i love it best served cold with a big dollop of smetana. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:24 am 14 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: baking, food, frugal, moon, preserving, recipes wednesday, february 20, 2008 total eclipse of the moon it's a full moon tonight, but not just any old full moon. this is a very special one. i'm setting my alarm clock to go off at 2:45 am because i want to see tonight's total lunar eclipse. the moon goes around the earth once a month but its orbit is tilted, so most months it doesn't pass directly through the earth's shadow. but at least twice a year, during a full moon, some part of it will be within the earth's shadow and that's a partial lunar eclipse. tonight we will have a total lunar eclipse which means the moon will be completely within the earth's shadow for fifty minutes. if the earth had no atmosphere, the moon would appear black during a total lunar eclipse. but the atmosphere scatters the sunlight, so some light reaches the moon even during totality. however the moon will distinctly darken and change colour. often it appears reddish. some eclipses are darker than others, depending on the amount of dust in the atmosphere. tonight's total eclipse lasts from 03:01 am to 03:51 am gmt. it will be visible from all of north and south america, and most of africa and europe (including all of britain and ireland). the next total lunar eclipse will be on december 21st 2010 but it won't be visible from britain. the next total lunar eclipse visible from britain will be in 2015, seven years away, which is why i'm getting up at such a ridiculous hour to see this one. isn't the photo amazing? it's a multiple exposure photograph of a total eclipse in 2004, taken over hayward, california. click on the photo for more information, and to see its license information. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:54 am 14 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: moon saturday, february 09, 2008 old moon in the new moon's arms i just popped out to post a letter and noticed the old moon in the new moon's arms. also known as the earthshine, or ashen glow, it is caused by sunlight reflected off the earth onto the dark side of the moon. when this happens, you can see the bright illuminated part of the moon (the new moon) cradling the dimly lit circle of the old moon. i wish i had a really good camera so i could take pictures of things like this. but instead i'm illustrating this post with a sketch of earthshine by leonardo da vinci as part of his codex leicester, written between 1506 and 1510. posted by melanie rimmer at 6:44 pm 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: moon tuesday, january 22, 2008 moon after yule it's a full moon tonight, but i doubt i'll see much of it as the sky is covered with a thick layer of cloud. it's a shame, as it's the first full moon of 2008 and i'd like to say "hi". never mind, there will be eleven more full moons this year. you might want to collect your water for mead-making tonight. at my beekeeping course last night the instructor mentioned an old myth that mead (honey wine) should be made with water collected by moonlight. he joked that it must be the reason his mead didn't turn out well, and said he'd have to wait for the next full moon to collect his water. obviously he didn't know it would be a full moon tonight, and i didn't tell him because i had already asked lots of questions about bee genetics and didn't want to be the annoying kid in the class who always has their hand up with some question or comment. thanks to kerrdelune for the stunning photo. posted by melanie rimmer at 3:05 pm 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: moon monday, december 24, 2007 long night's moon i'm writing this on the evening of december 23rd, and as i sit at my computer desk i can look out of the window at the almost full moon, framed in the bare branches of an oak tree, and surrounded by a halo of ice crystals. it's astonishingly beautiful. i'll post this on december 24th, which is a full moon as well as being christmas eve . there's a full moon each month (sometimes there are two), and each month's full moon has its own character. a full moon in december is in the sky a long time, because december nights are the longest of the year (in the northern hemisphere). so one of the names of december's full moon is long night's moon. since tonight's full moon is just two days from the winter solstice, it's about as long as it can possibly be. other names for this full moon include winter moon, snow moon, frost moon, oak moon (appropriate for me) and moon before yule. thanks to kerrdelune of beyond the fields we know for permission to use the image. like me, she blogs about the cycles of the moon and sun, and the turning of the seasons. she's also a far, far better photographer than i am. posted by melanie rimmer at 7:58 am 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: moon friday, october 26, 2007 october 26 2007 - hunter's moon like the harvest moon we had last month, tonight's full moon occurs close to sunset. so as long as we do not have thick cloud cover, people can continue to go about their business by moonlight without any long period of darkness. at this time of year, hunters in particular use the light of this moon to pursue migrating geese. they can also ride out across the cleared fields to catch the fox, which itself is hunting the small mammals who are gleaning food from the fields. and finally they can more eaily see deer in the forest now thatthe leaves have fallen. and that's why october's full moon is known as the hunter's moon. if you look at the moon shortly after it rises, it appears larger and yellower than if you view it when it is higher in the sky. this is true of all full moons (and crescent moons, planets, constellations and anything you look at in the sky). but you are more likely to be looking at a harvest or hunter's moon at moonrise because this occurs at such a convenient time, around sunset. the arc the moon follows at this time of year is shallower than at other times of year so it never climbs really high in the sky. that's why people say these two moons are larger and yellower than other moons. at any rate, it is a beautiful sight. try to see it, if you can. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:56 am 9 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: moon thursday, september 27, 2007 autumn haiku not just any 17-syllable phrase is a haiku. not even poetic sentiments that break 5-7-5 are necessarily haikus. i'm told that the essence of haiku is the "haiku moment" - a moment where time seems to stand still in perfect consciousness of the instant, expressed in the most concise poetic form possible. i've experienced moments like that. for example, last night sam and i went out to see the harvest moon. walking up the road towards the open field, sam was scared of the dark, so i picked him up and carried him in my arms. when we saw the moon, it was so bright, it cast our shadows on the ground. we both just stood there and watched it for a while. i'm a wordy, rambling person (i'm sure you've noticed) and i wouldn't dare try to express such a moment as a haiku. but i liked this one, written over 200 years ago by a japanese gentleman-poet: such a moon - even the thief pauses to sing. posted by melanie rimmer at 11:00 am 5 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: moon, poetry wednesday, september 26, 2007 harvest moon it's a full moon tonight, the full moon closest to the autumn equinox, known as the harvest moon. full moons always rise very close to sunset (the moon is full because it's opposite the sun, you see). for these few nights there is no long period of darkness between sunset and moonrise. the moonlight sort of extends the day, granting farmers extra time to bring in their crops, hence the name. the harvest moon also appears larger and yellower than usual. this is because you tend to view it when it is close to the horizon. because you are looking at it through a great thickness of atmosphere, differential scattering makes it look yellower or redder than normal. if you take a photograph of it, the change in colour will show up on the photo so this is a real effect even though the actual moon has not changed colour. the apparent increase in size is just an illusion, though. if you measure the size of the moon, it is no different than at other times. but our minds perceive objects close to the horizon as being larger than objects higher in the sky. even though i know it's just an illusion, it's still a very convincing one, and the harvest moon is a stunning sight. i hope we get clear skies tonight so i can go out from about 7pm and look at it. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:09 am 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: moon older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ▼ 2012 (1) ▼ february (1) happy valentine's day, ed ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.