bean sprouts one family's search for the good life saturday, february 28, 2009 wet moon i saw a beautiful "wet moon" tonight; the crescent moon is tilted on its side. it looks like a bowl, or a smile. if you are in the northern hemisphere and the sky is clear where you are, why not go and have a look at the wet moon? as in the photo, venus is quite close by the moon tonight. i used an astronomy website to make the following sky map. you'll need to know your latitude and longitude to get an accurate map for your position, but thanks to the wonders of the internet it's very easy to find that out too. i used this latitude and longitude finder. if you plan on a bit of stargazing tonight, you could print off a star chart for your own location so you know what you are looking at. posted by melanie rimmer at 7:57 pm 57 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: moon friday, february 20, 2009 potatoes in bags in october or november my dad ordered me a kit from marshall's for growing potatoes in bags. his intention was that i would have home-grown potatoes for christmas. but the kit only arrived a week or so ago, so today steph and i planted them up, with some help from eleanor and rebecca. you put about 8" of compost in the bottom of the bag then put three chitted spuds on top and cover with about another 4" of compost. keep it watered, and as the shoots appear you cover them with more compost until the bag is full. i've had friends who used this method and they were amazed at the size of the crop. they told me the bag is just jam packed full of potatoes by the end. the kit came with three bags and fifteen swift seed potatoes. the instructions said to put three spuds in each bag, so we jabbed some holes in the bottom of a half-empty compost bag and planted that up as well. there's nothing magic about the bags that marshall's sent me - you can grow spuds in any sack or bag or bucket of roughly the right size. the only "magic" is that receiving a kit through the post gave me a kick up the behind to actually do it. thanks, dad. posted by melanie rimmer at 12:05 pm 27 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: family, food, gardening, self sufficiency thursday, february 19, 2009 allotments all the rage the bbc is reporting that allotments are all the rage. a combination of the credit crunch and eco-awareness is driving a huge interest in vegetable growing. national waiting lists for allotments are said to be over 100,000. according to the bbc: in some areas, it's more difficult to get an allotment than it is to get in to the most exclusive london clubs, with waiting lists running to 10 years - those that have not been closed altogether. in order to feed the demand, the national trust is releasing enough land for 1000 allotments. what caught my eye about the story though was a link to landshare.net. with a strapline "linking people who want to grow their own food to space where they can grow it", it struck me as a brilliant idea whose time has come. the ubiquitous hugh fearnly-whittingstall appears in a video on the site explaining how the idea works. or at least that's that it says - i couldn't get it to play. but from what i can gather it seems to be encouraging people to offer their underused gardens in exchange for some of the produce. so if you can't get an allotment why not sign up to the landshare website and see if anyone near you has a garden you could use to grow some produce? or if you have good intentions to do something with your garden but you never seem to actually do it, why not offer your land to someone who desperately wants it? you get to see your garden looking cared-for and productive. you get a share of some of the produce. you get to build up relationships with people in your local community. it's a real win-win arrangement. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:04 am 25 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: allotment, news friday, february 13, 2009 back to the allotment ed and i went back to the allotment today for the first time in 2009. we were almost scared of what we would find, and it certainly looked weedy and neglected when we got there. but we harvested some leeks and some borecole (a curly cabbage-related thing). and we found most of the weeds were shallow, surface-rooted things which came up very easily. in an hour and a half we had cleared about an eighth of the whole plot, which is very encouraging. i'll go back later in the week and plant something in the ground we cleared. broad beans and garlic can go in at this time. and we'll return once a week to clear a bit more. by the time spring really gets started we should have it all shipshape. i enjoyed myself enormously. i had forgotten how much i love going there. it helped that it was a beautiful day. the sky was blue and the sun was shining, although there was an inch of ice in the water butt. but after only a short while of digging we had stripped off our layers of woolies and were in our shirtsleeves. i chatted to one of the allotment holders who filled me in on what had happened since i was last there. i took stock of what is still there - my soft fruit bushes, my apple tree, the rhubarb is already coming up and so are the daffodils. ed and i planned what we would plant in the coming season. it's good to have dirt under my nails again. posted by melanie rimmer at 5:31 pm 17 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: allotment, family, gardening newer posts older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ► 2012 (1) ► february (1) ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ▼ 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ▼ february (4) wet moon potatoes in bags allotments all the rage back to the allotment ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.