bean sprouts one family's search for the good life showing posts with label family. show all posts showing posts with label family. show all posts friday, february 20, 2009 potatoes in bags in october or november my dad ordered me a kit from marshall's for growing potatoes in bags. his intention was that i would have home-grown potatoes for christmas. but the kit only arrived a week or so ago, so today steph and i planted them up, with some help from eleanor and rebecca. you put about 8" of compost in the bottom of the bag then put three chitted spuds on top and cover with about another 4" of compost. keep it watered, and as the shoots appear you cover them with more compost until the bag is full. i've had friends who used this method and they were amazed at the size of the crop. they told me the bag is just jam packed full of potatoes by the end. the kit came with three bags and fifteen swift seed potatoes. the instructions said to put three spuds in each bag, so we jabbed some holes in the bottom of a half-empty compost bag and planted that up as well. there's nothing magic about the bags that marshall's sent me - you can grow spuds in any sack or bag or bucket of roughly the right size. the only "magic" is that receiving a kit through the post gave me a kick up the behind to actually do it. thanks, dad. posted by melanie rimmer at 12:05 pm 27 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: family, food, gardening, self sufficiency friday, february 13, 2009 back to the allotment ed and i went back to the allotment today for the first time in 2009. we were almost scared of what we would find, and it certainly looked weedy and neglected when we got there. but we harvested some leeks and some borecole (a curly cabbage-related thing). and we found most of the weeds were shallow, surface-rooted things which came up very easily. in an hour and a half we had cleared about an eighth of the whole plot, which is very encouraging. i'll go back later in the week and plant something in the ground we cleared. broad beans and garlic can go in at this time. and we'll return once a week to clear a bit more. by the time spring really gets started we should have it all shipshape. i enjoyed myself enormously. i had forgotten how much i love going there. it helped that it was a beautiful day. the sky was blue and the sun was shining, although there was an inch of ice in the water butt. but after only a short while of digging we had stripped off our layers of woolies and were in our shirtsleeves. i chatted to one of the allotment holders who filled me in on what had happened since i was last there. i took stock of what is still there - my soft fruit bushes, my apple tree, the rhubarb is already coming up and so are the daffodils. ed and i planned what we would plant in the coming season. it's good to have dirt under my nails again. posted by melanie rimmer at 5:31 pm 17 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: allotment, family, gardening friday, november 21, 2008 sprouts - not just for christmas in the summer i long to eat salad and vegetables, fish and cold chicken. but when the cold weather comes i welcome the swede and leeks, roast meats, pies and casseroles, and yes, sprouts. it seems to confuse ed when i serve sprouts. he said "it's not christmas yet is it?" but sprouts are not just for christmas. steamed and served with a knob of butter and plenty of black pepper (or better still, ground nutmeg), they're divine. i had mine with a nice gammon steak and some boiled potatoes. the next day i used the leftover vegetables and some proper corned beef from the butcher to make bubble and squeak for my lunch the next day. and that's the best bit of all. ed doesn't realise, but that's the real reason i served him sprouts the night before. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:21 am 17 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: family, food monday, november 03, 2008 portrait of tom my sister steph has gone home. we always have a great time when she's here. this time we spent a lot of time celebrating hallowe'en - decorating the house, carving pumpkins, organising costumes and face-painting for everyone, children and grown-ups. we made mock pumpkin soup and stuffed squash. we got together with our other sister, lindsey and her husband andrew and had a lot of fun. we also painted some of tom's warhammer miniatures - his latest hobby is fantasy wargaming. but mainly we did art. steph taught me to use soft chalk pastels. i'd never used them at all before she arrived. i did a number of drawings with the pastels under steph's guidance, but i'm happiest with this one of tom. in fact, i've framed it and hung it in the living room. posted by melanie rimmer at 1:43 pm 18 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: drawing, family thursday, october 30, 2008 un-shopping my sister lindsey and i went through my wardrobe and yanked out everything that doesn't fit me any more, everything too ratty to wear any more, and other things that needed de-cluttering. we also discovered some things i haven't worn for ages, and things i had forgotten i owned, and lindsey suggested different ways of combining items into outfits i hadn't thought of before. then she took some things from the "give to charity" pile that she wanted for herself. it was a lot of fun. the next day she brought me some things from her own wardrobe that she didn't wear any more and thought would suit me, or would go with outfits i already had. and we hit the local charity shops and found some great bargains. we bought a few items new, too, from a shopping list we devised of "must-haves" (e.g. that brown skirt you have is fabulous but you really need a couple of matching tops and a brown belt to go with it). so now i have a totally new wardrobe of outfits to wear, but with a minimal budget. and lindsey and i had a great time together doing sisterly girly stuff, dressing up and trying different looks out. i get the point of retail therapy. i understand why people like to go to the shopping mall for a day as a leisure activity to cheer themselves up. i understand the pleasure of coming home with an armful of trophies from your day of 21st century hunting-and-gathering. but my green instincts rebel at the wastefulness of shopping for the sake of shopping, and treating clothes as if they were disposable. so it's nice to find ways of getting the same retail rush with a clean eco-conscience. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:28 am 14 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: family, frugal, recycling, shopping sunday, october 26, 2008 sunday funny sorry i didn't post yesterday. i haven't vanished again. but my sister steph has arrived for a visit over half term. we've been learning to draw in pastels (well i've been learning, steph is already very good at it), decorating the house for hallowe'en, shopping for our brother-in-law andrew's birthday presents (happy birthday andrew!) and generally having lots of fun. since it's sunday, here are some funnies: after an exhaustive three year study, scientists at the university of the isle of dogs, east london, (uidel) have discovered what they think could be the real cause of global warming - people all over the world hanging out their washing to dry writes special washing correspondent barry rooster. the boffins say that when freshly-laundered clothes - especially whites and light coloureds - are hung on washing lines, they reflect the sun's rays upwards, leading to an increase in the greenhouse effect. head of research gunther smallpiece comments: "we've previously been told to reduce the temperature on our washing machines to save electricity, but this is fact counter-effective. we will recommend to the government that the population use the full drying cycle on their machines, instead of hanging the garments outside in the fresh air". and he goes further: "this is so serious, we'd like to see hanging washing outdoors to be banned in the same way as smoking indoors.""we'd like to see it become, if you like, a 'hanging offence'!", he jokes, proving conclusively that even dull scientists do have a sense of humour. from the spoof. cartoon from throbgoblins. click on the panel to read the whole strip. posted by melanie rimmer at 1:46 pm 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: drawing, family, funny saturday, august 23, 2008 gunga din it rained the whole time in ireland, but we had fun despite it. we went to the boat my dad keeps with his friend on lough derg. we went to bunratty castle and folk park, we played a d&d game with the kids, and we invented our own board game and played that. i taught steph to crochet granny squares and we started work on an afghan for dad. dad read us poems by robert service, rudyard kipling and banjo patterson whilst we crocheted. i practiced a new bluegrass fingerpick i was learning on the guitar until i drove everyone crazy (but they all agreed i had improved by the end of the week). the kids played in the irish farmland surrounding dad's house come rain or shine. they shoveled up gravel from a heap and scattered it all across the yard; on the last day steph and i spent an hour sweeping it back into a heap. the kids furnished a "den" in the hedgerow by the lane and spent a lot of time carrying stuff up there. we watched a clutch of swallow chicks in dad's barn get bigger and bigger - before long they'll be ready to fly. we identified most of the wild flowers we found on dad's land (ragwort, greater plantain, ribbed plantain, welted thistle, creeping thistle, creeping buttercup, herb robert, yarrow, short-fruited willowherb, selfheal and others) and we identified all the birds (goldfinches, house sparrows, dunnocks, wrens, robins, chaffinches, blue tits, great tits, greenfinches, jackdaws, hooded crows, wagtails, swallows, and others). tomorrow we're off on our travels again - to london this time with ed (he didn't come to ireland) for our main family holiday of the year. i'll resume normal regular blogging when i return. posted by melanie rimmer at 8:52 pm 41 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: biodiversity, birds, family, music, weeds friday, august 15, 2008 going to ireland the kids and i are going to ireland to stay with my dad for almost two weeks. my two sisters will be there too, with my nephew and niece. poor old ed is staying at home, but we'll be having our family holiday together when we get back. i've lined up some blog posts to be published every day whilst i'm away. but my dad's internet connection is absolutely abominable so i won't be able to respond to emails or comments until i get back. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:10 am 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: family friday, august 08, 2008 newspaper mirror my sister stephanie and i have been on a real recycled mirror kick recently. stephanie made this one from newspaper, thread, cardboard, and a piece of mirror tile. she rolled sheets of newspaper into tubes and flattened them, then she stitched them onto a circle of corrugated cardboard. she cut out the hole in the centre and glued a piece of mirror behind. then she backed the whole thing with a piece of thin card. everything was recycled. i think it looks very effective, and it is hanging on my wall close to my computer. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 11 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: family, recycling sunday, august 03, 2008 my sister visited my sister stephanie went back home to sunderland on friday. she had been with us for two weeks. whilst she was here we went to three farmer's markets, a national trust property, we had a picnic in calderstones park liverpool, we went to the liverpool tate art gallery with our five kids (that was fun), we restored and painted some beehives, we made recycled mirrors, we met up with our other sister lindsey three times, we bottled some honey, we made waffles, cookies, cheese scones, we went to a barbecue at my neighbour's house, we went to an agricultural show, we played scrabble and risk and we watched the first season of the sopranos on dvd, we did some sewing, some drawing, some painting, some pyrography, some decoupage. we had a great time. i went to the farmer's market again today and all the stallholders asked me "where is your sister? where is her baby?" it's still fun going to the farmer's market without her, but it's not as much fun. i'll be seeing her again in only ten days' time when all the family are gathering at my dad's house in the west of ireland. i'm looking forward to that, but in the mean time the house seems unnaturally quiet. cartoon by the talented and uncannily sexy marc roberts of throbgoblins. he's recently published a great cartoon about allotments, but it has too many panels to fit neatly on a bean sprouts blog entry. posted by melanie rimmer at 12:54 pm 7 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: family friday, august 01, 2008 recycled mirror my very talented and arty sister stephanie made me a beautiful mirror decorated with recycled drinks cans. she cut the cans into small squares then folded the corners of the squares to form smaller squares with safe edges. each small square was nailed onto an old wooden picture frame with a tack in each corner. the picture frame used to be white and contained a picture of elmer the patchwork elephant. all our children are too old for elmer now, so she removed the print and painted the frame with some blue and purple emulsion paint we found in the shed, before nailing the pieces of drinks can onto it. then steph cut an old piece of mirror glass to fit the frame (we saved the mirror from an old wardrobe, it's been in the shed for years). and that was it, a beautiful new recycled mirror. i was utterly delighted with it - until i found that she had cut up several drinks cans with my best dressmaking scissors. posted by melanie rimmer at 8:56 am 20 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family, recycling friday, july 25, 2008 great crested newts i had a lovely picnic yesterday with my kids, my sister stephanie and her kids, and our sister lindsey. we all met up in calderstones park, liverpool. we had our picnic close to a small pool. my 6-year-old son, sam, pointed out a plaque which said there were great crested newts in the pond. great crested newts are a protected species in the uk and it's great to know that they are thriving there in the middle of liverpool, although we didn't see any newts ourselves. i got chatting to a woman who was tending a small memorial to her daughter who had died of cancer six years ago. there were some flowers planted around the base of a tree near the newt pond with a discreet plaque identifying the place where the young woman's ashes were scattered. the woman told me that sometimes she and her surviving daughters came and had a picnic together in this place so they could all be together again. i thought that sounded really nice. but the woman expressed regret that the pond was in such such a bad state. "they've let it go all stagnant," she said "it used to be clean and there were ducks here" i got the feeling it spoiled their family get-togethers, this idea that the pond was neglected. so i pointed out the plaque and explained about the newts. i said that the pond wasn't stagnant - it wasn't covered in weed or algae and it didn't smell. it seemed to be well-tended because it didn't have any litter in it or around it. the water looked a little muddy, but presumably the newts liked it that way since they were reproducing here. there was another, larger lake in the park where the ducks lived, and it's a good thing there were no ducks in the newt pond because i guess the ducks might eat the newts and their larvae. i also pointed out a five-foot wooden sculpture of a newt amongst the trees by the pond. by the end of our conversation the woman seemed much happier about the pond. it's a shame to think that there had been the least shadow over her daughter's memorial because she believed the pond was dirty and neglected. i'm glad i could help to lift that shadow, and i hope that the next time she and her other daughters get together there, they will discuss the rare newts in the pond. it's a beautiful little spot to spend eternity. i wouldn't mind being scattered somewhere like that myself when the time comes. great crested newt painting by stephanie smith posted by melanie rimmer at 10:02 am 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: biodiversity, family tuesday, june 03, 2008 learning to knit sam is learning to knit. he wanted to knit a teddy bear for eleanor, but i've persuaded him to start with squares. i'll sew them up into a bean bag when he's made two of them. he's trying very hard and making great progress. i do a couple of rows when he's not looking so it grows a bit faster for him. it's hard to be patient when you're six. posted by melanie rimmer at 12:00 pm 9 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family, knitting saturday, may 31, 2008 french knitting since the kids helped dyeing yarn with kool aid and making our own knitting needles, they're keen to try knitting. the book kids knitting recommended starting kids with a french knitting spool. it's easier than knitting with needles but it shows them how knitting works, by hooking loops of thread through the loops on the row beneath. so eleanor and sam have been french knitting. that's a picture of sam. he's 6, and he has mastered it very quickly. when i was researching french knitting resources on the internet to include in this post, i found this site about knitting nancies. i never realised there was so much to say on the topic of french knitting, but this fascinating web page uncovers the history of it from the medieval lucet through to a plastic toy which is basically a 45-loop mechanical knitting nancy. check it out. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 8 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family, knitting thursday, may 29, 2008 home-made knitting kneedles here's another of the projects from kids knitting by melanie falick. i'd never thought of making my own knitting needles before, but it's very simple and fun. they're fun to use as well. i can recommend the book as it is full of quick funky knitting projects like this. but there are instructions for making your own knitting needles on various websites. 6-year-old sam helped me make these, and it has inspired him to learn to knit. with the aid of falick's book he is making good progress, knitting a bean-bag on the needles he made himself. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:00 am 14 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family, knitting saturday, may 03, 2008 starting to look like a proper allotment well so much for the weather forecast. i went down to the allotment before 8am in case it rained later, but it stayed dry all day. at 10am i came back and picked up the rest of the family and we all stayed on the plot until 5pm. we weeded the garlic. it's looking good - i'm really keen for the harvest. i helped eleanor plant her part of the allotment with sweet peas, pansies, violas and other multicoloured flowers. she didn't want anything edible in her part of the plot, just flowers. we weeded, dug and manured a scary weedy area full of ground elder and dock. we sowed peas, planted cabbages, celery, and jerusalem artichokes, and created an area for tom. he wants to grow carrots, strawberries, blackberries and bananas. i asked him if he wanted any flowers, but he doesn't. it doesn't sound much when i write it down, but we must have put in 15 back-breaking man-hours. i've caught the sun on my arms and the back of my neck. ed says it's starting to look like a proper allotment. tomorrow if the weather stays good we'll weed the soft fruit and tackle another scary weedy area. i've still got some red cabbages and some onions (red and white) to plant, and i want to sow my runner beans. that will be the whole of the "old" part of the allotment, leaving only the new area to do. if some of the bits we've got now are scary weedy areas, that part is a terrifying jungle, but i'm determined to tame it this bank holiday weekend. posted by melanie rimmer at 6:13 pm 9 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: allotment, family, gardening, self sufficiency friday, may 02, 2008 gardening leave "gardening leave" is usually a euphemism for someone being suspended from their job. but ed actually took a day of his precious holiday time to work on the allotment. we dropped the kids at school at 9am, and then spent all day at the plot. at 3pm i collected the kids from school whilst ed remained on the allotment for another hour. then we swapped shifts and i stayed on digging for another couple of hours. all told i think we did about 12 man-hours today. we weeded about half the area we had last year (we have a new bit - a scary jungle to be tackled later). we dug and manured the bare areas and planted leeks, carrots, curled borecole, calabrese, purple sprouting broccoli, cauliflowers, and french marigolds. yes i know it's supposed to be tagetes for companion planting, but i couldn't find any. and the main reason i wanted them is that i resolved to have more flowers on the plot, just for pleasure, so french marigolds are as good as anything. we weeded amongst the overwintered shallots and broad beans, so now we can see how well they're coming along. we weeded and tidied the herb bed and planted some bronze fennel and rosemary for height at the back. we strimmed the green manure i planted in late autumn and ed dug it it. ed says he does not like green manure, simply because he does not like the "digging it in" part. if anyone wants to tell us that part is not necessary, we'd be pleased to hear from you. in any case, there is an enormous pile of the brown sort of manure and we made good use of it, so the green type seems unnecessary. fortunately the weather remained glorious all day. the forecast says heavy rain over the weekend, although monday (a bank holiday here in the uk, and the reason for ed's non-euphemistic gardening leave) is forecast to be fine. we'll see. when it's fair, we'll garden, and when it's pouring, we'll do something else. when you put it like that, the forecast is neither here nor there. posted by melanie rimmer at 7:09 pm 17 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: allotment, family, gardening, permaculture, self sufficiency wednesday, april 30, 2008 school banner here is the banner steph helped me sew together for the kids' school. eleanor is making her first holy communion this month, and each member of her class painted a sacrament-related design onto a 1' square of fabric. the teacher asked me to assemble all 30 squares into a banner. eleanor's square is the second from the right on the top row. it's a funky-looking yellow bird representing the holy spirit, with multicoloured embellishments and glitter. here it is enlarged. eleanor always uses colour lavishly in her paintings. years ago all her class coloured in angels at christmas time. most of the children used tasteful combinations of white, silver and gold to colour their angels. eleanor coloured hers with stripes using every pen in the set; hers was a groovy rainbow hippy angel. at the end of the school year, the banner will be cut up and each child will take their artwork home. i wonder if i'll be asked to hem all 30 squares? probably. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:44 am 8 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: crafts, family tuesday, april 29, 2008 zen and the art of mowing the lawn when i got the lawnmower out for the first time this year i had to spend half an hour cleaning the grass that was firmly glued to every surface. last year was a horrible washout and we eventually had to mow the lawn when it was wet, because it never dried out at all and it would have been knee-high if we hadn't mowed it sometime. the wheels of the mower ground up the spongy, waterlogged soil, damaging the lawn. the wet grass didn't cut very well, especially the tough stalks which had developed in the long period between mowing. the soggy grass cuttings stuck to all parts of the lawnmower and were difficult to clean off; eventually we gave up trying. mowing the lawn in 2007 was a miserable experience. but last saturday, ah, that's a different story. i had forgotten the simple pleasure of cutting the lawn with a properly functioning mower on a warm dry day. the hum of the mower, the delicious sharp smell of the cut grass, the birdsong in the distance, the heat of the sun on my back. i felt as though i could have mowed forever. then sitting down with a cold glass of beer afterwards and surveying a job well done. heaven must be just like this. it was during this "surveying" period that i noticed various nasty holes and patches in the lawn. sam helped me fork out the weeds and moss, prepare the soil surface, and sow some new grass seed to fill the gaps. on monday he brought home a small scarecrow he had made at school. there was really only one place to put it. sam's scarecrow stands in the middle of the front lawn, deterring any birds who might want to eat our grass seed before it grows. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:56 am 15 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: family, gardening saturday, april 26, 2008 10 reasons to cook with quorn there are only four days left to participate in our try a vegetarian meal challenge. if you are running out of inspiration, here are ten good reasons to try a quorn dish: 1. you can get quorn chunks (which are rather like chunks of chicken), quorn mince (which is like beef mince) and quorn beef-style strips (which are self-explanatory). 2. point 1. means that you can easily make many of your favourite meat-based recipes vegetarian. we like quorn chili, quorn lasagna, quorn fajitas and quorn thai green curry, for example. 3. you can offer a vegetarian and non-veggie choice without all the trouble of making two totally separate meals, for example by making rice, thai green curry sauce with vegetables, then pouring half the sauce over some heated quorn chunks and the other half over cooked chicken pieces. 4. quorn sausages make nice sausage casseroles, as well as bangers and mash, toad-in-the-hole, and ed's favourite - sausage sandwiches. 5. quorn is much lower in fat than the meat it imitates, so it can be a healthier option, especially as, just like meat, it contains high-quality protein. 6. unlike meat, quorn contains fibre which also makes it a good addition to a healthy diet. 7. because it is similar in taste and texture (not identical, but similar) to meat, it can help die-hard carnivores cut some of the meat out of their diets. you know, the sort of people who would sooner starve than knowingly eat a lentil. 8. because you use it in the same sorts of recipes as meat, you don't have to learn a whole lot of new cooking skills (such as how to cook lentils). 9. quorn is lower in calories than meat and contains no cholesterol. so if you're watching your weight or your cholesterol levels you can still enjoy some of your favourite meals just by switching to quorn. 10. boil some water and cook some spaghetti. fry an onion, add a tin of tomatoes, a pack of quorn mince, and some italian mixed herbs. by the time the spaghetti is cooked, the sauce will be cooked, too (quorn is already cooked, it just needs heating through). if you've got some parmesan cheese, put that on top. if not, just forget it. quorn spaghetti bolognese is just as quick as heating up a ready meal - much quicker than phoning for pizza delivery - and it's tastier and healthier than either. what is quorn anyway? it's made from a fungus that occurs naturally in soil. sometimes it's described as "mushroom-based" - that's stretching it a bit. the fungus it's made from is a microscopic mould, not a mushroom like the ones you put in your omelette. on the other hand i've heard detractors describe it as genetically modified - that's not "stretching it a bit", it's just hooey. the faq page of the quorn website states clearly: q: do quorn products contain genetically modified ingredients? a: the main component of all quorn products is mycoprotein, which is not soya-based, but is a member of the mushroom family. this is grown and harvested under strict quality controls and we can therefore reassure you that it is not a product of genetic manipulation. quorn is approved by the vegetarian society who do not allow any gm ingredients in approved foods, so that's that. anyway, they grow this stuff in huge vats, dry it out, then process it, adding egg white (as a binder) and flavours to make it resemble chicken, mince, sliced ham, or whatever. it's a processed food, but then again so is cheese. it occurs to me that this article reads like an advert, so i'll just be clear. i have no affiliation to quorn. they haven't paid me or asked me to write this or anything fishy like that. i'm just a satisfied customer. we probably eat quorn about once a week in our house. the main reason is that it bridges the gap between the carnivores and the vegetarians in our family. if it was just up to me, i'd probably never eat it - when i felt like chicken fajitas i'd eat chicken, and when i felt like a vegetarian meal i'd make dishes based on beans, lentils, quinoa and all the other vegetarian protein sources i enjoy. i resisted using quorn for a long time because it felt like cheating. it's not "natural", it's a factory-made processed food. but so is cheese, so is tofu, so is bread unless you make it at home. when i gave in i found that a lot of new dinner possibilities opened up to me. instead of reading a recipe and thinking "that sounds really nice, but it contains meat. i'll have to wait till steph visits and make it for the two of us", now i often read a recipe and think "that sounds really nice. i'll switch the chicken for quorn and make it for me and ed next week". so it's your last chance to join in the try a vegetarian meal challenge. why not try converting your favourite chicken or mince-based dish to quorn? don't forget to vote in the poll in the right-hand sidebar when you've done it. posted by melanie rimmer at 10:42 am 12 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: challenges, family, food, recipes older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ▼ 2012 (1) ▼ february (1) happy valentine's day, ed ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.