bean sprouts one family's search for the good life sunday, january 31, 2010 creative day out it's been a crafty weekend. yesterday my 8-year-old son, sam, represented his cub pack at a crafting competition in macclesfield and had a lovely time. and today i went to the stitch and creative crafts show at the greater manchester exhibition centre with my sister lindsey and her friend caroline. amongst other things i bought some books which have filled me with inspiration for crafty things to do. posted by melanie rimmer at 4:49 pm 1 comment: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest friday, january 29, 2010 january moon it's a full moon tonight. i saw it in an almost clear sky, with just a few fluffy clouds close to the moon. the moon illuminated their edges and they seemed to glow pale blue. i love it when it looks like that. it seems very magical. i remember a children's tv series when i was a child about a garden in which statues came to life at night, and the young hero befriended greek nymphs and godesses and so on. the moon tonight reminded me of that for some reason. posted by melanie rimmer at 8:00 pm 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest tuesday, january 26, 2010 caught one! i got one! since enabling comment moderation i have allowed about five or six comments and blocked one spam comment. zapping spam feels good! posted by melanie rimmer at 9:19 am 1 comment: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest monday, january 25, 2010 comment moderation i don't know about you but i am getting sick of asian comment spam. so i have sadly enabled comment moderation. i'll check at least once a day and get your comments up as fast as possible. sorry about this. :( posted by melanie rimmer at 9:24 am 4 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest redwing a few years ago i decided i would like to be able to identify the common birds in my neighbourhood. with the help of my sister stephanie and a couple of good bird books i gradually achieved my aim. it wasn't as hard as i thought it would be. quite quickly the mass of similar little brown birds separated themselves out into sparrows, chaffinches, blue tits, great tits and a wide variety of other species. i could even identify male from female in many cases, and juvenile from adult. it was well worth the investment of time and effort. whenever i catch a glimpse of a familiar species i smile to myself. and the "hang on, what was that?" moments are a thrill, followed by the hunt to see the same bird again, gather enough information to try to identify it, followed by frantic riffling through the bird books to confirm the id. i have no wish to see every bird species in the world, or europe or even britain. i wouldn't go chasing off somewhere because some rare species had been spotted, or stay in a cold bird hide with a flask of tea and soggy sandwiches. that's part of the fun of birdwatching for some people, but my own goal is clearly defined - i just want to know the birds in my local patch. so why do i bring this up today? i spotted a seasonal visitor today, the redwing. it's a species of thrush, like the blackbird and songthrush and mistlethrush that stay year-round. but the redwing is more colourful than these dowdy birds, with its dandy eyestripe and vivid red patch under its wings. it's quite shy and although i am sure it comes to the area every year i don't always manage to spot it. posted by melanie rimmer at 8:24 am 4 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest sunday, january 17, 2010 cupcakes and punk rock it is my daughter eleanor's birthday party tonight. she was 10 on friday. we spent the day making and decorating cupcakes, chopping fruit for the punchbowl, and planning the music. i think the cupcakes are adorable. so cute and pretty. whilst i was washing up i asked eleanor to write out a playlist for the cds she wanted during the party. her list read: siouxie and the banshees blondie pink kiss she may still like baking with mummy but my daughter is growing up. i'm so proud of her. posted by melanie rimmer at 4:15 pm 6 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest newer posts older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ► 2012 (1) ► february (1) ▼ 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ▼ january (6) creative day out january moon caught one! comment moderation redwing cupcakes and punk rock ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.