bean sprouts one family's search for the good life showing posts with label barter. show all posts showing posts with label barter. show all posts saturday, april 19, 2008 what's new in the sustainable blogosphere? for the last two weeks i have been too busy to keep up with my emails and blogging, and now i'm catching up. here's a few of the things that landed in my mailbox that i thought worth sharing with bean sprouts readers. earth day first of all, this coming tuesday is earth day. earth day has been going since 1969, but the time is right for it to really take off. i'd love to see it become bigger than christmas (which is a religious feast for christians like me but tends to be just an excuse for an orgy of over-consumption and wastefulness for, well, for christians like me and everyone else as well). earth day is for everyone who lives on earth. you'd have to be living in a cave not to notice christmas when it comes around. earth day should be the same. every time you buy a calendar or a diary it should have earth day marked on it already. so do something. spread the word. send an e-card. give gifts of le light bulbs and organic wine. invite friends around for a meal of local food, obviously. blog about it. spread the word. swaptree.com donates to the sierra club in honor of earth day this tuesday, swaptree.com, the website where you can trade the books, dvds, cds, and video games you have, for the ones you want, for free, will be donating $1 dollar for every trade made on earth day to the sierra club. swaptree is like ebay but cash-less. british readers of a certain age will remember noel edmonds' multicoloured swap shop which used to be on tv on saturday mornings. young viewers would send requests to swap a bay city rollers scarf for an action man with eagle eyes and so on. swaptree is much swankier - you type in the bar code of the book, cd, dvd or video game you have and the clever swaptree software figures out 2-way, 3-way and even 4-way swaps that mean everyone gets the things they want. you don't pay swaptree for the privilege. it doesn't cost you anything apart from postage, and swaptree can calculate the shipping cost and print out a mailing label so you don't even have to go to the post office. you give and receive feedback so you can feel confident you won't be ripped off. there's a video tour so you can see how easy it is. but sadly it is only available in the united states at present. as soon as it comes to the uk i'll be the first to sign up. penguin classics partners with the nature conservancy staying with the topic of books, i have some news about one of my favourite publishing imprints, penguin classics. on april 1st, 2008, penguin classics began their support of the nature conservancy's ambitious reforestation plan to plant and restore one billion trees in brazil's atlantic forest. in bookstores everywhere, bookmarks (printed on recycled paper) featuring three of penguin's favorite environmental classics, rachel carson's under the sea wind, john muir's the mountains of california and ralph waldo emerson's nature and selected essays, will encourage readers to visit the nature conservancy's website, donate a dollar and help plant a billion trees. there's more information about this partnership here. downshifting week international downshifting week starts today. yippee! thanks to rebecca from sallygardens for the reminder. last year it was just national downshifting week, so it's growing fast. visit the website for ideas of how to take part, including: book a half-day off work to spend entirely with someone you love, no diy allowed cook a meal from scratch, using locally sourced, seasonal ingredients, preferably organic cut up a credit card i'll have a think about what i'm going to do this year, and i'll let you know later in the week. please leave a comment and tell me what you'll be doing for idw. take back the filter the indomitable beth terry from fakeplasticfish has started a new campaign to urge clorox (the company that owns brita in north america) to take responsibility for the millions of plastic brita water filter cartridges that are disposed of each year. it's called take back the filter and has its own homepage. here in the uk we can recycle our brita cartridges. the faq page of the brita uk website says: all components of the brita cartridge are recyclable. cartridges returned to brita will be returned to our own recycling plant in germany where the component parts are separated and processed for secondary use. for information on brita in-store recycling contact the britacare team on 0844 740 4800 and the recyclenow.com top tips at home webpage says: in line with growing consumer demand for greener living, brita has launched a new in store recycling scheme. recycling bins are now situated in a range of high street stores such as robert dyas, argos and cargo. other major retailer collection points will be following soon. the brita branded bins will be located next to the existing water filter category in store. customers can recycle any brita consumer product filter cartridge, including those for the new brita water filter taps. so once again this is more relevant to us readers than to our home grown readers. but the internet is an international medium and i'm glad to support beth's campaign. this bill's got no balls here's one specifically for uk readers, though. 'this bill's got no balls' - the new short film from i count - follows three hilarious scenarios where the protagonist, bill, confronts three eyewatering situations - on the football pitch, in the office and on the street - that clearly demonstrate that he's lacking a sensitive part of his anatomy. click here to watch the film. viewers are encouraged to visit the i count website, from where they can put pressure on their local mps to vote for a climate change bill with balls when the new law is voted on in the summer. the film can also be viewed on myspace and facebook so please feel free to forward it to your friends. mathew horne - of bbc3's 'gavin and stacey' who provided the voice over for the film - said: the climate change bill needs balls if we're ever going to tackle climate change. i will be putting the squeeze on my mp to make sure we have a tough bill. you should too. the broke vacationer sally thompson of travelhacker has written an article called the broke vacationer: 100 ways to get free stuff when traveling. i like some of the frugal tips in this article, although i don't really want to encourage people to fly all over the world on their holidays. have a look at the article and decide for yourself which of the tips fit your own ethical values and which you might prefer to pass. home gardening tips bill stanley, author of home gardening tips, got in touch to ask if he could add bean sprouts to his blogroll. bill has been a home gardener for over 20 years and enjoys sharing his gardening tips with friends and family as well as the rest of the world. as well as tips on plants and gardening, bill has recently added articles about saving the environment whilst gardening, buying flowers online and those slimy little buggers, snails. just for the record, i'm always delighted when anyone adds bean sprouts to their blogroll, or links to bean sprouts in a blog article. you don't need to ask permission, but if you do i'll check your blog out and maybe write about it, just like this! so email me and say hi. we dig for victory rob burns has built a mini campaign site called we dig for victory. he has created a little sticker and his website says: by using this sticker on my blog or site i'm digging for victory by... 1. growing some of my food at home or at an allotment - however modest. 2. eating locally and seasonally where i can and reducing food miles. 3. buying from small, local shops where i can and supporting my local economy. there's a bit more about the campaign on the page titled about this site. why not add the sticker to your own blog or website and spread the word? thats it, i'm all caught up with my emails now. i only wish the same were true of my laundry . posted by melanie rimmer at 3:44 pm 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: activism, barter, books, frugal, funny, gardening, news, recycling, self sufficiency, shopping sunday, november 18, 2007 good day on the allotment it was my turn to be on duty in the site shed again this morning, and i had an exciting time. we'd had a new portaloo delivered with an actual flushing toilet. it may not seem much, but it's a huge improvement on a draughty shed with a bucket in it. you can imagine how pleased the chap is whose job it used to be to empty the bucket. i also found some raspberry canes leaned up against my compost heap. they're from my lovely friend hazel, and i'll be putting them in the ground very soon. and i was given a bag of apples by a nice chap called stuart, who got them from a neighbour. he's going to try to get me some more, in exchange for a bottle of home-made cider. finally i picked up a free magazine from a chap called terry. all in all, not a bad haul for a cold and miserable day on the allotment. posted by melanie rimmer at 8:42 pm 8 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: allotment, barter, friends friday, march 23, 2007 review: living the good life i really enjoyed "living the good life" by linda cockburn. it's the story of an australian family who spend six months without spending any money, but still living a fairly normal life. they had already converted their half-acre garden to a fruit and vegetable plot (with chickens and a goat called "possum") to provide all their food, and installed solar hot water, photovoltaics and water catchment to provide electricity and water. it's also peppered with facts and figures about the harm our modern lifestyles are doing to the planet and to ourselves, including the table i reproduced a couple of weeks ago in "consumerism v humanitarianism". these help explain why the family felt motivated to do such a thing, and perhaps should motivate readers to make some changes in their own lifestyles. but if you really don't like that sort of thing you can easily skip those parts because they appear in coloured boxes, so you can just go to the next bit of narrative about the family. one factor that made it an easy read was that i really liked her. i'd like to meet her and just hang out, because she seemed funny and relaxed, whilst also passionate and serious about things that i agree are important. she kept that balance which (dare i say it) some eco-warriors tend to lose. so there is plenty of humour in the book. for example when their six-year-old son loses patience with the project and declares: i don't care what's for dinner as long as it comes with a free toy! maybe i'm weird (well i know i'm weird) but when i read about how they went six months without buying new clothes (even though they all lost weight and their clothes were dropping off them), or new shoes (and had to mend their own flip-flops), or books (gasp!) or anything else, i really envied them and wished i could do it myself. so many aspects of their lifestyle seemed idyllic, that even their hardships didn't seem as bad as struggling to do the weekly shop in the rain, queueing up for hours at the checkout and then sitting stuck in the traffic on the way home, or the other "hardships" of normal modern life. the end of the book describes their first couple of weeks "post-project". they had looked forward to having a huge blow-out, eating all the fast food they could get, and buying all the posessions money can provide. but they quickly found it wasn't nearly as enjoyable as they had anticipated. the dad had spent the whole six months cycling home from work past a kfc and trying to resist the alluring smell of hot chips. but when the project was over and he could have gone in and bought them if he wanted, he found he didn't really want to any more. i recommend you read this book. for one reason, it might open your eyes and motivate you to make some changes in your lifestyle that would benefit you and the whole planet. it certianly did that for me. but that's not the main reason you should read it. the main reason is that it's a good read. i think you'll enjoy it. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:29 am 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: barter, books, energy, ethics, food, frugal, gardening, philosophy, recipes, recycling, shopping wednesday, october 04, 2006 home-made soap i love making home-made soap out of fat and lye. it's not actually a very good money saver, as soap is very cheap to buy but soap-making ingredients can get pricey. they don't have to be pricey, but when you get really tempted by the nicest-sounding essential oils and speciality fats and waxes like me it's hard to hold back. still, i find it endlessly satisfying to make things myself. just knowing how to make things, rather than depending on buying everything at the shops, is pleasing. maybe i'm weird but i just don't find instant gratification all that gratifying. so i make my own soap in batches and use it or give it away or barter it. at the moment we're using an unscented hemp-oil soap, and a few weeks ago i swapped a bar for lots of packets of veg seeds. i wrote an article about soap-making, and the nice people at selfsufficientish.com published it here. it's got a recipe, detailed instructions, and several very fetching photos of me. posted by melanie rimmer at 9:53 am 5 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: barter, crafts wednesday, september 27, 2006 barter i've just bartered 4kg of runner beans (note to self - plant fewer next year) and 2 kg of yellow courgettes from the allotment for some apples, bananas and oranges at the local farm shop. i got talking to the shopkeeper and he's going to help me get some more chickens for myself and a neighbour who wants some too. that will save me having to go all the way to warrington. edited at 14:04 - this is a shoutout to my dad, bill, who has finally been dragged kicking and screaming into the 20th century, and is getting to grips with this new-fangled interweb thingy. bet you can't figure out how to leave a comment, baldie. posted by melanie rimmer at 11:21 am 10 comments: links to this post email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: allotment, barter, chickens, food, gardening older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) subscribe to bean-sprouts by email click here to send email to melanie follow bean sprouts on twitter about me melanie rimmer cheshire, united kingdom five of us live in a very small ex-council house with a very small garden on the edge of farmland. we grow some of our food. we keep chickens and bees. we try to be "green", whatever that means. view my complete profile followers recent comments loading... categories food (209) family (178) allotment (137) gardening (134) frugal (95) challenges (90) self sufficiency (79) shopping (70) crafts (69) energy (68) recycling (68) news (64) friends (58) recipes (54) chickens (52) books (44) philosophy (43) permaculture (42) vegetarian (41) bees (38) ethics (37) drinks (36) baking (34) preserving (31) brewing (30) cultures (27) music (27) organic (27) house (26) activism (25) biodiversity (24) funny (24) seeds (24) quilts (22) compost (21) trees (21) foraging (20) construction (14) transport (14) competitions (13) moon (13) weeds (12) pests (11) water (11) festivals (10) knitting (7) poetry (7) sun (7) barter (5) birds (5) cycling (4) movies (4) drawing (3) interviews (3) land (3) april 1st (2) art (2) cats (2) dyeing (1) shopping ethics (1) blog archive ▼ 2012 (1) ▼ february (1) happy valentine's day, ed ► 2010 (46) ► september (2) ► july (1) ► june (16) ► april (13) ► march (7) ► february (1) ► january (6) ► 2009 (32) ► december (5) ► november (22) ► april (1) ► february (4) ► 2008 (251) ► december (2) ► november (14) ► october (10) ► august (12) ► july (21) ► june (18) ► may (41) ► april (31) ► march (32) ► february (37) ► january (33) ► 2007 (490) ► december (35) ► november (52) ► october (60) ► september (72) ► august (41) ► july (52) ► june (30) ► may (31) ► april (28) ► march (31) ► february (28) ► january (30) ► 2006 (183) ► december (28) ► november (28) ► october (28) ► september (29) ► august (24) ► july (28) ► june (18) interesting links 1 million against nuclear power abe books - like amazon but used adbusters asda watch big green switch braamekraal farm british blog directory carbolic soap co. centre for alternative technology chiltern seeds climate cartoons corporate watch craigslist - buy or sell second hand goods down the lane downsizer.net ebay - buy something second-hand ethical mall farmer's markets freeconomy - helping each other not for profit, just for the love of it freecycle - changing the world one gift at a time friends of the earth bookshop frugal living in the uk hedgewitch's forum henriette's herbal blog hugg - like digg but green i count - stop climate chaos it's not easy being green leeds sustainability network lehman's lesbian gardens lifeisland.org - support for manor garden allotments society manchester climate forum national society of allotment and leisure gardens neeps! new internationalist magazine organic portal poynton against tesco recycle now reduce reuse recycle rivercottage.net rustle the leaf self sufficient-ish - urban self sufficiency self-sufficiency in style slow food solarwind alternative energy products sustrans - the sustainable transport charity tescopoly the fresh loaf - news & information for amateur bakers and artisan bread enthusiasts the green meadow the green providers directory the real seed catalogue the soil association tightwad central tightwad central tread lightly unique scrapstore veg box recipes veg box schemes vigo ltd what green car wiggly wigglers allotment blogs a confused grannies patch alice in blogland allotment 45 allotment 81 allotment girls allotment lady allotment news allotment twenty one an artist's allotment attack of the c'lonials bexsallotment clodhoppers dave's allotment down on the allotment duck dinner dash fluffius muppetus green magic hoe hoe hoe lottieblogs mike's allotment diary mildew miniplot: son of plotblog mr toad's plot multiveg’s plot ramblings on my tiny plot plot 7 woodstock allotment plot blog pumpkin soup pushing up the daisies she who digs spade work : from plot to plate squirrel's garden the allotment junkies the allotment underground the plot trying to grow things veg plot vortex's veg patches waark!com welsh girl's allotment beekeeping blogs beekeeping adventures beekeeping blog 2007 beekeeping by dummies cape beekeeping hive mind presents backyard beekeeping john scott's bees top-bar bees useful beekeeping articles craft blogs an irish craftworker's good life craftivism red swirl the string bag the worsted witch turkey feathers frugality blogs frugal sustainable and happy frugal veggie mama frugal village lazy man and money my frugal frugal ways peazyshop stop the ride! the frugal world of doc gardening blogs " quotidian " a country garden a southern gal gardens in the north adekun.com anything but sprouts cold climate gardening dirt: a blog by amy stewart ewa in the garden fresh as a daisy - the veggie garden experience garden rant girl gone gardening greenhouse girl: life amongst the gardens of yorkshire guerilla gardening happy hobby habit horticultural joanna's food mad about herbs me, my life, my garden mrsnesbitt's place organic city garden petunia's garden reading dirt realmud garden sad little garden scarecrow's garden sustainable gardening the gardening adventures of firsty mcstub the green fingered photographer this garden is illegal top veg two black cats wiggly wigglers …but it’s dirty! poultry blogs hatching eggs and chicks oiorpata's journal self sufficiency blogs colour it green dikkipenior killiker farming friends grobsness irish sally garden mountainsmallholder.com musings from a stonehead nerd in the country permaculture in brittany plan be purple dragon the accidental smallholder the cottage smallholder the_good_life titch - titch vickers urbania to stoneheads wombat sustainable living blogs a satisfying journey towards simplicity a sea change carla's country living chez ceridwen chile chews crouchended downshiftme.com ducking for apples ecostreet elitrope greenfoot greening up hedgewizard's diary huswyf its in your underneath judy of the woods little green house living the simple life i want small revolutions: voluntary simplicity smallholderwannabe sustainable log the witch path the zen housewife welcome to voluntary simplicity wombat wulf's web den friends a roker artist austin's blog backpacking burro blackberry 44's journal dropsafe edmond manning fenny's blog found fran's blog kate dicey laura ketteridge linz's journal living and mothering in a village in west yorks rants from an oldie.. telsa's homepage the musings of chris samuel featured in watermark theme. powered by blogger.