engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget beats electronics solo pro buy now login the buyer's guide find it, buy it and tell us how you really feel. all phones laptops gaming headphones home theater tablets more photography networking storage reviews / headphones beats electronics solo pro reviews / headphones beats electronics solo pro from $300+ $300 buy now share share 81 engadget score there's a lot to like about this in spite of a few flaws. 81 there's a lot to like about this in spite of a few flaws. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). engadget review the solo pro is beats most impressive set of headphones to date. there’s a lot of features and tech packed in for solid noise cancellation, hands-free siri and great sound quality. however, the nature of the on-ear design is that they have to pinch your head for a good seal. and for folks with large domes, they will get uncomfortable quickly. read full review pros excellent sound improved design solid anc hands-free siri cons uncomfortable (especially for big heads) no 3.5mm jack for wired use no companion app for customization no automatic pausing reviews 80 average critic score critic reviews 10 80 pc mag beats solo pro review the beats solo pro headphones delivers quality noise cancellation with a bass-forward, but relatively balanced, sound signature. read full review 80 soundguys beats solo pro review the beats solo pro is for the listener who's always on the move. noise cancelling is surprisingly effective for a pair of on-ear headphones. although the sound signature remains bass-heavy, as is emblematic of beats, it rarely overpowers vocal reproduction. read full review see all critic reviews 70 average user score user reviews 1 see all reviews specs key specs type over-ear channels stereo drivers per ear 1 noise isolation yes active noise cancellation yes connections wireless inline controls yes type channels drivers per ear noise isolation active noise cancellation connections inline controls over-ear stereo 1 yes yes wireless yes write a review tip: log in before writing a review step 1: rate and comment on specific criteria sound quality 0 design and form factor 0 comfort 0 noise isolation 0 durability 0 step 2: write a detailed review tips: make sure to include your initial thoughts on using the product, any observations and potentially any issues you might have run into while using it. step 3: finalize your product rating and submit your review we've calculated your overall product rating based on the average of your criteria ratings above. you can adjust this rating by dragging this slider. overall rating 0 login and submit! 81 engadget score there's a lot to like about this in spite of a few flaws. 81 there's a lot to like about this in spite of a few flaws. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). see all scores scores engadget 81 critic 10 reviews 80 users 1 reviews 70 user reviews 70 darren2589 ive had these since day one when they came out, having previously owned the...read more write a review about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr