bustle beauty here's how to give yourself an at-home facial, according to an estheticianby shea simmons how to give yourself the perfect manicure at homeby shea simmons this is the one beauty product hailey bieber can't live withoutby sara tan the art of video call makeup: what to know before your next zoom meetingby olivia muenter here's why you need dyson's new $499 cord-free hair straightenerby sara tan without this woman, bobbi brown never would have pursued beautyby bobbi brown the $155 serum jennifer aniston’s esthetician is obsessed withby sara tan the best holiday look for every sign, according to an astrologistby kara mcgrath 11 drugstore eyeshadow palettes that you need asap a splurge purchase every now and then can be great, but for those on a beauty budget, the drugstore doesn't disappoint. some of the best eyeshadow palettes on the market can now be found at your local target, cvs, or ulta. from colourpop moving into…by emily mcclure and shea simmons 4 beauty products you should definitely be wearing indoors, according to experts one of the best parts of working from home is that the only person who is going to judge your appearance is you. you want to spend a week straight in the same matching sweatsuit? you do you. want to work from home without makeup for an entire month?…by olivia muenter 7 aromatherapy face masks so soothing you may as well be at the spa it's fair to say we're all pretty stressed and highly strung right now due to the current covid-19 health crisis. being unable to lead our daily lives, along with social isolation and potential money worries can really leave you feeling overwhelmed.…by rebecca fearn from cleansers to oils, these topical probiotics could be the key to your best skin ever topical probiotics are to your skin as oral probiotics are to your gut. to more thoroughly parse this sat-inspired analogy, your skin has a microbiome — a diverse network of healthy bacteria — just like your gut has a microbiome of its own. and a…by caroline goldstein how to trim your own hair at home, according to celebrity hairstylists not everyone has beyonce-level clearance with their hairstylists and can get an appointment at the drop of a hat — i can attest to this firsthand. but if you've ever found yourself in a hair predicament where you can no longer bear to look at your…by stephanie montes 10 products from ulta's 21 days of beauty sale that have thousands of rave reviews heading into your local ulta store isn't an option right now, but the retailer is still maintaining healthcare and pay to its employees during closures amidst the covid-19 pandemic. they're also still operating as usual online, which means ulta's 21…by shea simmons how to remove gel nail polish at home without damaging your nails gel polish manicures might sound like a dream come true, but removing them without destroying your nails can quickly turn into a nightmare. luckily there are ways to remove gel nail polish at home that'll ensure you can get the polish off and allow…by lindsey rose black and sara tan how miley cyrus & hailey bieber's tattoo artist is helping with coronavirus relief while tattoo studios are no longer open for service under shelter-in-place orders and emergency declarations, one artist is still working, but instead to help prevent the spread of coronavirus. celebrity tattoo artist dr. woo is donating profits of…by shea simmons how to participate in e.l.f's latest eye, lips, face, safe tiktok challenge everyone should be doing their part to maintain social distancing and follow cdc best practices during the covid-19 pandemic. now, a beauty brand is joining in to help bring those best practices to social media. e.l.f's eyes, lips, face, safe tiktok…by shea simmons 11 ways to revive dried-out cream makeup products, according to makeup artists it's not often that a single product spurs a whole genre of fix-it hacks, but people love their anastasia beverly hills dipbrow. unfortunately, the very stiffness that makes the potted pomade work so well also means it dries out long before the…by rachel nussbaum and shea simmons here's how to give yourself an at-home facial, according to an esthetician with many states and cities issuing shelter in place orders, people are being asked to stay at home and practice social distancing. for those experiencing anxiety or stress, self-care is an important way to cope, and an at-home facial could be a way…by shea simmons the official guide to choosing a serum for oily skin — plus some dermatologist tips ask anyone — a beauty editor, a dermatologist, an aesthetician — and they'll likely tell you that serum is the most important step in any skin care routine. that's because they're highly concentrated, targeted treatments made up of teeny tiny…by lisa fogarty and adeline duff sponsored don't miss this week's sales at ulta beauty’s 21 days of beauty event score major savings on the best beauty and skin care products while ulta beauty's 21 days of beauty event is still going!explore how to cut your own bangs at home like a professional stylist if you've never had bangs before, i feel compelled to tell you they're extremely high-maintenance. for all you fringe neophytes out there, allow me to brief you on their very brief life span. let's say your appointment is on friday; they somehow…by stephanie montes sponsored how to score this neon look how how create this neon makeup look with bustle and ulta beautyexplore the 3 best hair ties that won't let you (or your hair) down while working out when it comes to shopping for the best hair ties for working out, people want comfortable, durable hair ties that won't let them — or, more importantly, their hair — down. also key: hair ties that don't cost a fortune, so if one happens to get lost…by andrea pyros a derm's guide to mineral sunscreens — plus the best ones you can buy on amazon this is not groundbreaking advice, but it bears repeating: you should be wearing face sunscreen every day (yes, even if you’re staying inside!). a more nuanced consideration is whether that sunscreen should be of the chemical or mineral variety. to…by caroline goldstein 4 rich, luxurious body butters to help combat dry skin there's something particularly luxurious about slathering on a rich body butter. they're typically thicker and more highly moisturizing than body lotions, and applying them allows you to take a minute or two out of your busy day for a little…by andrea pyros why you shouldn't get your hair done at a salon during the coronavirus pandemic stores, restaurants, and schools are closed. major events like the met gala have been postponed, and most of us are social distancing —separating ourselves in order to minimize the spread of covid-19. while california, new york, and other cities and…by kaitlyn mclintock every time meghan markle broke royal protocol with her beauty looks while the duchess of sussex's fashion choices are often the topic of conversation when it comes to her style, meghan markle's beauty looks are nothing to balk at. the soon-to-be inactive royal family member has always had a signature look, but that…by shea simmons newsentertainmentbeautyfashionlifestylebookshealthwomen's history monthspread the lovevideo about usadvertisetermsprivacydmcacontact uscoupons