programs back to menu programming and development back to menu programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence back to menu programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing back to menu programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science back to menu programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business back to menu programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems back to menu programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career back to menu career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise back to menu overview our approach solution about us sign in get started programs programming and development programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise overview our approach solution about us sign in get started new! nanodegree program become an ai product manager learn to develop ai products that deliver business value. build skills that help you compete in the new ai-powered world. download syllabusenroll now estimated time 2 months at 5-10 hours/week enroll by april 14, 2020 get access to classroom immediately on enrollment prerequisites no experience required see prerequisites in detail in collaboration with what you will learn download syllabus syllabus ai product manager you’ll learn how to evaluate the business value of an ai product. you’ll start by building familiarity and fluency with common ai concepts. you’ll then learn how to scope and build a data set, train a model, and evaluate its business impact. finally, you’ll learn how to ensure a product is successful by focusing on scalability, potential biases, and compliance. along the way, you’ll review case studies and examples to help you focus on how to define metrics to measure the business value for a proposed product. learn how to evaluate the business value of an ai product. build fluency with ai concepts, create a data set, measure the effectiveness of different machine learning models, and craft a product proposal. hide details estimated 2 months prerequisite knowledge no prior experience is required.see detailed requirements. introduction to ai in business gain foundational knowledge of ai and machine learning, how to develop a business case for an ai application, and how and when to use ai in a product. creating a dataset a high-quality training data set is essential for machine learning models. learn how to create a high-quality dataset, including how well the data fits a particular use case.create a medical image annotation data set with figure eight building a model learn how a neural network produces a decision and how “training” works. you’ll also learn how to use training data and how to evaluate the results of a model.build a model with google automl measuring impact and updating models learn how to measure post-deployment impact, and how to make data-informed improvements on your model. you’ll also learn how to avoid unwanted bias, ensure security and compliance, and how to scale your product.capstone project need to prepare? there are no requirements to enroll in this program. all our programs include real-world projects from industry experts with real world projects and immersive content built in partnership with top tier companies, you’ll master the tech skills companies want. technical mentor support our knowledgeable mentors guide your learning and are focused on answering your questions, motivating you and keeping you on track. personal career coach and career services you’ll have access to career coaching sessions, interview prep advice, and resume and online professional profile reviews to help you grow in your career. flexible learning program get a custom learning plan tailored to fit your busy life. learn at your own pace and reach your personal goals on the schedule that works best for you. program offeringsfull list of offerings included: enrollment includes: class content real-world projects icon-checkmarkcheckmark project reviews icon-checkmarkcheckmark project feedback from experienced reviewers icon-checkmarkcheckmark student services technical mentor support new icon-checkmarkcheckmark student community improved icon-checkmarkcheckmark career services personal career coaching new icon-checkmarkcheckmark interview preparations icon-checkmarkcheckmark resume services icon-checkmarkcheckmark github review icon-checkmarkcheckmark linkedin profile review icon-checkmarkcheckmark resume shared with 95+ employers new icon-checkmarkcheckmark succeed with personalized services we provide services customized for your needs at every step of your learning journey to ensure your success! experienced project reviewers technical mentor support personal career coach get personalized feedback on your projects reviews by the numbers 2000+ project reviewers 1.8m projects reviewed 4.85/5 reviewer ratings 3 hour avg project review turnaround time reviewer services personalized feedback unlimited submissions and feedback loops practical tips and industry best practices additional suggested resources to improve succeed with personalized services we provide services customized for your needs at every step of your learning journey to ensure your success! project reviewers technical mentor support career coaching get personalized feedback on your projects reviews by the numbers 2000+ project reviewers 1.8m projects reviewed 4.85/5 reviewer ratings 3 hour avg project review turnaround time reviewer services personalized feedback unlimited submissions and feedback loops practical tips and industry best practices additional suggested resources to improve learn with the best alyssa simpson-rochwerger vp of product at figure eight alyssa is a customer-driven product leader with proven experience in scaling products from conception to large-scale roi. as director of product management at ibm watson, she oversaw the development of a large portfolio of ai products. kiran vajapey senior hci developer at figure eight kiran vajapey is an hci developer working on creating new products and interfaces to advance ai in industry. kiran has a master's in cs from cornell and has previous experience in hr tech, fintech, and product architecture. kirsten gokay associate product manager at figure eight kirsten received her bachelor’s degree in linguistics from uc davis. with a background in customer success, she’s passionate about solving complex problems with easy-to-use products. meeta dash director of products at figure eight meeta dash is director of products at figure eight, which builds ai products to help enterprises solve real world use cases. an nit india btech and ucdavis mba, she's built ai and voice/video products at cisco, tokbox and ca. related nanodegree programs ai programming with python nanodegree program start building ai apps in just three months beginner intro to machine learning nanodegree program learn foundational machine learning algorithms intermediate program details program overview - why should i take this program? why should i enroll? ai is changing the world around us at an astounding pace. for many, artificial intelligence remains a mystery, and how to leverage this technology is not always clear. this program is designed for students who want to take advantage of ai, but don’t want or need to learn the full technical implementation of neural networks and machine learning models. you’ll learn how to leverage ai in the business world, from scoping datasets, testing machine learning models, and crafting a proposal for a new product powered by ai. along the way you’ll build fluency in ai concepts. what jobs will this program prepare me for? this program is designed to upskill practicing product managers to build ai-powered products and bring value to their business using ai. how do i know if this program is right for me? this program is intended for anyone who wants to gain fluency and understanding of ai use cases. if you want to learn how to leverage ai, including how to build a dataset and how to evaluate different machine learning models without needing to code, this program is for you. enrollment and admission do i need to apply? what are the admission criteria? there is no application. this nanodegree program accepts everyone, regardless of experience and specific background. what are the prerequisites for enrollment? there are no technical prerequisites. this course is intended for professionals who have some familiarity with product management and basic data analysis. if i do not meet the requirements to enroll, what should i do? if you need to review basic data analytics skills, we recommend the intro to descriptive statistics course. tuition and term of program how is this nanodegree program structured? the ai product manager nanodegree program is comprised of content and curriculum to support 3 (three) projects. we estimate that students can complete the program in two (2) months working 10 hours per week. each project will be reviewed by the udacity reviewer network. feedback will be provided and if you do not pass the project, you will be asked to resubmit the project until it passes. can i switch my start date? can i get a refund? please see the udacity nanodegree program faqs for policies on enrollment in our programs. what software and versions will i need for this program? what software and versions will i need for this program? there are no specific hardware or software requirements for this program, other than access to the internet and a 64-bit computer.show less become an ai product manager download syllabus enroll now featured programs product manager ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow data streaming ux designer java developer ai product manager sensor fusion engineer data visualization cloud developer cloud dev ops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms marketing analytics data engineer android basics android developer ios developer business analytics data analyst front end web developer full stack web developer intro to programming intro to machine learning with pytorch machine learning engineer predictive analytics for business programming for data science with python react only at udacity artificial intelligence deep learning digital marketing flying car and autonomous flight engineer intro to self-driving cars machine learning engineer robotics software engineer self-driving car engineer udacity schools school of artificial intelligence school of autonomous systems school of business school of data science school of programming school of cloud computing resources catalog career resource center career services hire talent get hired student success udacity talks scholarships what is ai? talk to an advisor programs veterans georgia tech company about blog in the news jobs become an instructor udacity intersect enterprise udacity for enterprise hire talent support contact us help and faq service status tech requirements © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. legal & privacy site map united states china "nanodegree" is a registered trademark of udacity. © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. udacity is not an accredited university and we don't confer traditional degrees. udacity nanodegree programs represent collaborations with our industry partners who help us develop our content and who hire many of our program graduates. we use cookies to optimize site functionality, personalize content and ads, and give you the best possible experience. learn more accept cookie preferences