skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: bedroom design and decorate the bedroom of your dreams with guides and inspiration for every style. bedroom windows buying guide bedroom windows buying guide bedroom window treatments aren’t given much thought by many homeowners or renters. you might throw something over the window to block out light if you sleep late or skip it altogether if you’re an early riser. but bedroom window valances, curtains or other window treatme… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in bedroom / windows enjoy sweet dreams with these diy headboard ideas basak gurbuz derman/getty images shop these products now: pillow – beds a headboard is one of the last things you see before you fall asleep and one of the first things you see when you wake up. demonstrate your unique design… by freshome team on march 19, 2020 in bedroom bedroom paint color ideas: what’s your color personality? have you noticed how color can affect your mood? when considering bedroom paint ideas, the right bedroom paint color choice will make a huge difference in how you feel. famous psychotherapist carl jung pioneered the concept of color psychology. he was interested in colors’ properties and meani… by cynthia bowman on march 10, 2020 in bedroom teen bedroom ideas that are fun and cool if you're searching for teen bedroom ideas, think about what your teen loves and see their bedroom through their perspective. a teenager has a different view of a bedroom than an adult -- beyond a place to sleep, it’s where a teen escapes from the world of demands and rules. by cynthia bowman on march 10, 2020 in bedroom 22 small bedroom ideas that are big in style looking for small bedroom furniture? check out our updated article about small space beds. calling all small space dwellers! big city apartments, vintage home layouts, and modern space downsizing all call for design that expands the possibilities of small. if you need a bedroom makeover but don’t th… by danica rog on march 24, 2020 in bedroom the murphy bed: now you see it, now you don’t if you need extra sleeping space for guests, futons and sofa beds are two options. but have you ever considered a murphy bed? they’re extremely comfortable and take up zero floor space when not in use. and you can choose one that complements your room’s design. here’s what you need… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in bedroom 15 amazing walk-in closets for your home wish list if there’s one design element that’s hard to get too much of, it’s a well-designed, enviable walk-in closet. if you don’t have a walk-in closet, odds are you want one. and if you have a walk-in closet, you might want inspiration on how to redesign it,… by michelle honeyager on march 16, 2020 in bedroom easyclosets: could getting a quality, custom closet really be that easy? if you’ve been dreaming of a closet upgrade, easyclosets is worth checking out. image courtesy of easyclosets. this article is sponsored by easyclosets. the opinions and statements below are those of our writer’s experience. freshome may collect a share of sales from… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in bedroom bad bedroom cleaning habits to put to bed keep your bedroom ready for r&r by putting these bad bedroom cleaning habits to bed. image: photographee.eu/shutterstock your bedroom is your sanctuary. it’s where you go to rest and get rejuvenated. it’s where you dream, plan and — if you’re like us — do a lot of your netflix… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in bedroom creating the ultimate bedroom for sleep during the chilly months, your bed can be a place of relaxation, warmth and comfort. but have you ever turned off the lights only to find that sleep evades you? turns out, just getting into bed isn't always enough to ensure you catch some quality z's. that's why we've rounded up some tips for creating the ultimate bedroom for sleep. by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in bedroom 1 2 … 7 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss