skip to main content a community of independent local bookstores search for books search enter the terms you wish to search for. toggle navigation menu main navigation locate an independent, local bookstore indie bestsellers indie next list reading group indie next list kids indie next list find indies selling ebooks the impact of amazon's growth bedtime math (hardcover) a fun excuse to stay up late (bedtime math series) by laura overdeck, jim paillot (illustrator) feiwel & friends, 9781250035851, 96pp. publication date: june 25, 2013 list price: 16.99* * individual store prices may vary. description our mission: to make math a fun part of kids' everyday lives. we all know it's wonderful to read bedtime stories to kids, but what about doing math? many generations of americans are uncomfortable with math and numbers, and too often we hear the phrase, "i'm just not good at math!" for decades, this attitude has trickled down from parents to their kids, and we now have a culture that finds math dry, intimidating, and just not cool. bedtime math wants to change all that. inside this book, families will find fun, mischief-making math problems to tackle—math that isn't just kid-friendly, but actually kid-appealing. with over 100 math riddles on topics from jalapeños and submarines to roller coasters and flamingos, this book bursts with math that looks nothing like school. and with three different levels of challenge (wee ones, little kids, and big kids), there's something for everyone. we can make numbers fun, and change the world, one bedtime math puzzle at a time. about the author laura overdeck has a ba in astrophysics from princeton university and knows numbers. since she enjoys them so much, she (along with her husband john) decided to give their three children math problems instead of bedtime stories, and bedtime math was born. jim paillot has contributed illustrations to many children's books, including the bedtime math series. praise for bedtime math: a fun excuse to stay up late (bedtime math series)… “overdeck debuts with a just-irreverent-enough book . . . . she shows that she knows her audience and loves her subject. paillot (the my weird school series) is a great choice for collaborator . . . he does it all with a good-hearted, goofy energy that should propel readers through the pages.” —publishers weekly, starred review “[this program] may have the potential to make bedtime math problems as loved as the bedtime story. . . . hats off to laura overdeck. this project is a winner. a simple idea that may have as much of an impact on improving the science, technology, engineering and math interest in our children as many other well-funded programs.” —wired/geekdad “we all know we should read to our kids. but even if bedtime stories are routine in your house, when's the last time you gave your kids a bedtime math problem? probably never. and that's one reason american students might struggle in a future that requires mathematical literacy... maybe if more children grew up doing bedtime math problems, those numbers would be different.” —usa today “besides stopping the bad-mouthing of our own math skills and making sure that we're distributing our numbers-related conversations equally among our sons and daughters, what can a parent do to increase "math awareness" in our everyday lives? how about a bedtime math problem? . . . [in bedtime math]they're meant to be solved in their heads, and to promote both giggles and mathematical thought.” —new york times motherlode blog buy at local store enter your zip code below to purchase from an indie close to you. search online and in-store stock may differ. please call before going to store. or buy here amazon's true cost: lost jobs, storefronts, & revenue locate stores:by name|by zip why shop indie indie next list indie bestsellers indies first link to indiebound affiliate program sign in|create account get help|security & privacy|terms of use copyright © 2020 american booksellers association