newsletters search house tours search house tours by home type apartments houses studio apartments tiny homes more by location new york city los angeles chicago london san francisco more close style search style browse photos living rooms bedrooms kitchens bathrooms patios style & design decorating ideas design trends color more before & after kitchens bathrooms living rooms bedrooms entryways more close how to search how to how to's hacks paint cleaning plant care home repair & maintenance gardening pest control home security heating & cooling close organize & clean search organize & clean topics disinfecting homekeeping shortcuts cleaning routines organizing & storage decluttering more close living search living real estate moving home financing resources for renters first-time home buyers property crush money budgeting hacks saving & investing budget living career life intentional living family pets wellness green living entertaining close shop search shop shop by room storage kitchen bathroom living room bedroom shop vintage @ bazaar rugs tabletop lighting furniture storage sofas tables chairs shop vintage by style mid-century modern modern rustic industrial scandinavian close more search read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop real estate news partner content company partner with us about contact terms of use privacy policy jobs team watch house tours how-to marie kondo plant doctor taryn cleans it all the new homesmiths $32 design challenge adorable animation more follow us visit our partner site kitchn is a source of inspiration for a happier, healthier life in your kitchen. close before after and kitchen b&a: thanks to ikea cabinets, a dark 75-square-foot kitchen is now modern tours shannon tate-giordano of shannon tate interiors says this kitchen's remodel has changed her clients' lives. "good kitchens always do." apartment therapy submissions 2 days ago before and after: a $2,500 refresher keeps this 1950s kitchen's charm intacthome projects all the inspo you need to wallpaper your kitchen. megan baker mar 19, 2020 before and after: just $2,000 turns this '90s kitchen into a scandi-boho dreamhome projects this diy kitchen redo is full of smart savings. megan baker mar 14, 2020 b&a: a dated kitchen's incredibly colorful remodel still honors its retro rootstours this 1920s house's kitchen was old, but not in a charming way. the floor was dirty linoleum, the counters had gross tile and grout, the sink was chipped, and the lighting was ugly fluorescent! apartment therapy submissions mar 3, 2020 before and after: two months and $6000 later, this kitchen's unrecognizablehome projects you'll want to steal the new cabinet color asap. megan baker feb 20, 2020 before and after: this gray kitchen is about to get way more funhome projects wait until you see the ceiling. megan baker feb 12, 2020 before & after: emily henderson’s kitchen changed how i store my pot holdersorganize & clean i love storing something without taking up any space. shifrah combiths feb 9, 2020 before & after: this kitchen's colorful floors will be your favorite thinghome projects a redo of a 1912 home's galley kitchen makes room for bold pattern. megan baker feb 6, 2020 before and after: a diy kitchen redo that would make chip and jo proudhome projects open, airy, with farmhouse flair? count us in. megan baker feb 4, 2020 before and after: a 90-square-foot kitchen doubles in size (and in style)home projects this diy gut job yielded seriously impressive results. alison goldman jan 29, 2020 before and after: paint and hardware make these kitchen cabinets look brand newhome projects the after's lighter, brighter, and way more modern. alison goldman jan 27, 2020 before and after: this kitchen redo is a perfect blend of modern and traditionalhome projects it's a little last century, a little this century, and a lot stylish. alison goldman jan 25, 2020 before and after: the best part of this full kitchen reno is the ceilinghome projects yes, really. megan baker jan 22, 2020 before and after: a diy kitchen redo axes "two decades worth of grease"home projects this one-time rental kitchen's total overhaul made it way more functional—and lots prettier, too. megan baker jan 13, 2020 b&a: this dated 600-square-foot nyc apartment gets a beautiful, low-cost upgradetours although it's a rental, ashley used lots of low-cost upgrades, covering ugly tile with laminate stickers, ugly countertops with marble-look contact paper, and more ideas. apartment therapy submissions jan 13, 2020 before and after: a stylish $50 kitchen island redo done in a dayhome projects this small change makes a huge difference. megan baker jan 8, 2020 before and after: this $500 rental kitchen is packed with great ideashome projects tiny space, big style—and a whole lot of inspiration. megan baker jan 6, 2020 the best and boldest patterned tile before and afters we saw this yearhome projects this was the year of statement-making tile, and these redos are the best of the best. carolin lehmann dec 24, 2019 our 10 favorite painted cabinet before and afters of 2019home projects this budget-friendly trick is timeless, and these stunning projects prove it. carolin lehmann dec 23, 2019 before and after: the 12 best kitchen redos we saw in 2019home projects looking to cook up some style in your own home? get inspired by our favorite kitchen redos of the year. brigitt earley dec 18, 2019 b&a: a dated kitchen's remodel not only saves its vintage charm, it improves ittours this 1924 brick bungalow is old and has character, and needed just a little work to fix it up. the kitchen remodel is a gorgeous improvement that keeps the vintage charm. apartment therapy submissions dec 18, 2019 before and after: diys and savvy shopping remake a kitchen for $1000home projects those dollars go a long way in this kitchen transformation. sarah durivage-jacobs dec 13, 2019 a townhome's makeover proves how powerful paint for kitchen cabinets can betours almost everything in this townhome's remodel was replaced except kitchen cabinets, which were totally transformed thanks to sage green paint and a new tile backsplash. apartment therapy submissions dec 10, 2019 before & after: thanks to smart budget ideas, a dated kitchen is much improvedhome projects the total budget for the renovation was a lot less than you might think, too. adrienne breaux dec 6, 2019 before and after: $1000 rental kitchen with one luxe-looking ikea hackhome projects you won't even believe it's the same kitchen. megan baker dec 1, 2019 before and after: little changes made a big difference in this kitchenhome projects see if you can spot all the tiny swaps that make this kitchen look brand new. megan baker nov 21, 2019 before and after: a bright budget redo for this lime green kitchenhome projects lime green: great for slime, not always so great for cabinets. alison goldman nov 4, 2019 before and after: this kitchen’s whole remodel is great, but the floors are to die fortours the size of the kitchen was the largest challenge when trying to maximize usable square footage without changing the footprint. the home is a 1926 craftsman bungalow and patrick wanted the kitchen to complement that period of style. apartment therapy submissions nov 3, 2019 before and after: the 10 best kitchen renos we’ve seen this yearhome projects we see a lot of kitchen makeovers, and these are our editors' favorites of the year... so far! audrey carleton oct 29, 2019 before and after: black and white revved up this blah brown kitchenhome projects as this homeowner says, "paint, elbow grease, and lack of fear are my secret weapons!" megan baker oct 18, 2019 before and after: this dark wood kitchen got a bright white diy redohome projects from toe kicks to pendant lights, this kitchen's a total diy job with seriously impressive results—all under $5k! megan baker oct 16, 2019 before & after: a rental apartment’s dingy kitchen is unrecognizabletours it's only 582 square feet but it feels much bigger thanks to a bright, modern remodel. apartment therapy submissions oct 16, 2019 before & after: this kitchen’s remodel is simple, chic, and so goodhome projects when betsy and manny bought this former rental house, the plaster walls were damaged, squirrels were nesting in the eaves, and they didn’t have a working fridge. minette hand oct 11, 2019 before and after: budget upgrades totally transformed this kitchenhome projects this kitchen went from dark and dim to bold and bright—all for only $600. megan baker oct 10, 2019 before and after: a cheery refresh for this once-bland kitchenhome projects what to do when your kitchen's perfectly fine but also just fine? roll out the wallpaper and grab some paintbrushes, of course. alison goldman oct 8, 2019 before and after: a creepy kitchen gets a bright and beautiful new starthome projects you know what they say: the best home transformations come when the "before" photo looks like it came straight from a horror film (and if they don't say it, they should!). ashley poskin oct 4, 2019 before & after: a narrow, dated kitchen is now a sleek, modern space thanks to ikea cabinetstours one of the most dramatic renovations to the condo is the new modern kitchen; most everything was updated save for the original lighting in the narrow room. adrienne breaux sep 26, 2019 follow us got a tip, kitchen tour, or other story our readers should see? tell us about it! read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop company partner with us about contact press terms of use privacy policy eu data subject requests california do not sell our team jobs site map apartment therapy is © 1994-2020 apartment therapy, llc