newsletters search house tours search house tours by home type apartments houses studio apartments tiny homes more by location new york city los angeles chicago london san francisco more close style search style browse photos living rooms bedrooms kitchens bathrooms patios style & design decorating ideas design trends color more before & after kitchens bathrooms living rooms bedrooms entryways more close how to search how to how to's hacks paint cleaning plant care home repair & maintenance gardening pest control home security heating & cooling close organize & clean search organize & clean topics disinfecting homekeeping shortcuts cleaning routines organizing & storage decluttering more close living search living real estate moving home financing resources for renters first-time home buyers property crush money budgeting hacks saving & investing budget living career life intentional living family pets wellness green living entertaining close shop search shop shop by room storage kitchen bathroom living room bedroom shop vintage @ bazaar rugs tabletop lighting furniture storage sofas tables chairs shop vintage by style mid-century modern modern rustic industrial scandinavian close more search read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop real estate news partner content company partner with us about contact terms of use privacy policy jobs team watch house tours how-to marie kondo plant doctor taryn cleans it all the new homesmiths $32 design challenge adorable animation more follow us visit our partner site kitchn is a source of inspiration for a happier, healthier life in your kitchen. close before after and bathroom before and after: this springy $1,000 bathroom redo covers every little detailhome projects the before is fine, but the after will give you heart-eyes. megan baker mar 11, 2020 before and after: this powder room's after is full of the best kind of dramahome projects the wallpaper will make you gasp. megan baker mar 9, 2020 before and after: a $5,000 diy master bathroom that looks 10 times as expensivehome projects the before stunk—literally. but the after is a dream! alison goldman feb 29, 2020 before and after: this funky $100 bathroom redo uses paint in surprising wayshome projects you won't see the after coming! megan baker feb 23, 2020 before and after: a rental bathroom redo that looks downright luxurioushome projects the wallpaper will give you serious heart-eyes. megan baker feb 15, 2020 before and after: a dark bathroom redo that looks ultra high-endhome projects you've never seen subway tile look so moody (in the best way). megan baker feb 10, 2020 before and after: this $400 bathroom redo is made of 8 super easy elementshome projects one of them is a removable wallpaper that will knock your socks off. megan baker feb 7, 2020 before and after: it's hard to believe this dramatic bath redo cost just $800home projects it's literally unrecognizable. megan baker jan 20, 2020 before and after: a bright, cheery diy bathroom overhaul for $1,500home projects see ya, crayon-patterned wallpaper border. megan baker jan 12, 2020 before and after: one weekend, one tiny powder room, tons more charmhome projects this itty bitty powder room makes a big impression. megan baker jan 7, 2020 before and after: this luxe bathroom is straight out of a fancy hotelhome projects the new black-and-wood color combo looks super chic. megan baker jan 4, 2020 these painted floor before and after transformations will wow youhome projects money-saving and seriously stylish? sign us up. carolin lehmann dec 27, 2019 the best, most wow-worthy wallpaper before and afters we saw this yearhome projects bold wallpaper’s a winner in our book. we’ll show you why. carolin lehmann dec 26, 2019 the best and boldest patterned tile before and afters we saw this yearhome projects this was the year of statement-making tile, and these redos are the best of the best. carolin lehmann dec 24, 2019 our 10 favorite painted cabinet before and afters of 2019home projects this budget-friendly trick is timeless, and these stunning projects prove it. carolin lehmann dec 23, 2019 the 12 best bathroom before & afters we saw in 2019home projects this was a good year for bathrooms. here, we've got a dozen seriously impressive redos to inspire you. brigitt earley dec 16, 2019 before and after: a $200 bathroom transformation done in a weekendhome projects a couple benjamins and a little elbow grease make for one stylish bathroom redo. megan baker dec 14, 2019 before and after: from "silence-of-the-lambs-y" to bathroom beautyhome projects the tile in this bathroom will give you serious heart-eyes. megan baker dec 9, 2019 before and after: diy elbow grease made a 1990s bath beautifulhome projects we'd say those 30 hours (!) of hand-painting really paid off. sarah durivage-jacobs dec 5, 2019 before and after: these walls mimic high-end wallpaper (for under $2!)home projects sponge painting, but make it fashion. megan baker dec 3, 2019 before and after: how a master suite went from basic to fabulously bohohome projects the new bedroom and bathroom are a little fresh, a little funky, a lot stylish. alison goldman nov 26, 2019 before and after: this bathroom refresh shows what $100 can really dohome projects let these bold changes inspire you. megan baker nov 25, 2019 before and after: this blah beige bathroom redo makes a real splashhome projects is it possible to be in love with a sink? we say... maybe. sarah durivage-jacobs nov 20, 2019 before and after: this 1995-era master bathroom redo is plain dreamyhome projects hello, 1995? we're here to give your beige tile back. alison goldman nov 12, 2019 before and after: a total bathroom redo with a vintage spinhome projects this family got the best of both worlds: a fresh new bathroom with a classic old-school look. ashley poskin nov 11, 2019 b&a: a dated powder room makeover is fantastic and full of ideas for renterstours the powder room of a young downtown toronto family got a colorful floral makeover. adrienne breaux nov 7, 2019 before and after: this powder room overhaul cost just $65 (!!!)home projects some clever diying turned this bathroom into a space you won't even recognize. alison goldman nov 5, 2019 before and after: the 10 best bathroom redos we’ve seen so far this yearhome projects let these jaw-dropping makeovers inspire you. audrey carleton oct 28, 2019 before and after: this builder-grade bathroom's chic redo cost under $500home projects a few high-impact, low-cost swaps totally transform this builder-basic bathroom. megan baker oct 24, 2019 before and after: a boring builder-grade bath goes positively spa-likehome projects a layout switcheroo plus some fresh new finishes made this bathroom way more spacious and relaxing. megan baker oct 15, 2019 before and after: a bland bathroom got a wheelchair-friendly renohome projects this beige-on-brown bathroom wasn't pretty, and it definitely wasn't practical. alison goldman oct 12, 2019 before and after: a diy overhaul transformed this old, dirty bathroomhome projects claire kennedy and her husband are renovating their entire uk home—and the bathroom needed extra help. two types of tile and a chic new paint color made it look brand new. alison goldman oct 7, 2019 before & after: a long-awaited master bath makeover was worth the waittours the main bathroom needed an entire makeover, including a layout update. adrienne breaux sep 30, 2019 before & after: a boring beige bathroom is now a glam retreat thanks to stunning (removable!) wallpapertours attorney and content creator blake gifford jokes on her website that her chicago rental apartment's bathroom must have been "the room they were renovating when they started to run out of money. minette hand sep 17, 2019 before and after: a bland bathroom goes bold, thanks to a beautiful black and white remodelhome projects it took about three weeks and cost around $6,400 to complete this bold black and white bathroom renovation. adrienne breaux jul 3, 2019 before and after: this $17k reno transformed a dated bathroom into a ‘1960s italian dystopia’ style dream roomhome projects lisa backus and andrea richardson of design bar detroit transformed this dark and dated detroit loft bathroom into a bright, modern space. diana paulson jun 24, 2019 before and after: this painted bathroom became fantastically unique after one just weekhome projects this bathroom definitely had a look going on: lots of wood, plenty of lace, and baroque lights hung from chain swags. but after one week of hard work, the room is now a pink powerhouse packed full of handmade touches. racheal jackson—@banyanbridges on instagram—did every single bit of this outstanding renovation, laying tile, installing a new sink and faucet, painting, creating a concrete countertop, and refacing the vanity doors and drawers. tess wilson feb 14, 2019 follow us got a tip, kitchen tour, or other story our readers should see? tell us about it! read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop company partner with us about contact press terms of use privacy policy eu data subject requests california do not sell our team jobs site map apartment therapy is © 1994-2020 apartment therapy, llc