newsletters search house tours search house tours by home type apartments houses studio apartments tiny homes more by location new york city los angeles chicago london san francisco more close style search style browse photos living rooms bedrooms kitchens bathrooms patios style & design decorating ideas design trends color more before & after kitchens bathrooms living rooms bedrooms entryways more close how to search how to how to's hacks paint cleaning plant care home repair & maintenance gardening pest control home security heating & cooling close organize & clean search organize & clean topics disinfecting homekeeping shortcuts cleaning routines organizing & storage decluttering more close living search living real estate moving home financing resources for renters first-time home buyers property crush money budgeting hacks saving & investing budget living career life intentional living family pets wellness green living entertaining close shop search shop shop by room storage kitchen bathroom living room bedroom shop vintage @ bazaar rugs tabletop lighting furniture storage sofas tables chairs shop vintage by style mid-century modern modern rustic industrial scandinavian close more search read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop real estate news partner content company partner with us about contact terms of use privacy policy jobs team watch house tours how-to marie kondo plant doctor taryn cleans it all the new homesmiths $32 design challenge adorable animation more follow us visit our partner site kitchn is a source of inspiration for a happier, healthier life in your kitchen. close before after before & after: a run-down desert house is completely transformedtours kalina designed all the rooms by scouring craigslist, going to flea markets, and perusing sites to find all the right items. apartment therapy submissions about 7 hours ago before and after: a retro bathroom gets an art-filled diy redo for just $1000home projects the after is serious gallery wall goals. alison goldman yesterday before & after: a sad basement apartment gets a budget refreshtours despite it being small and dark, this renter really made the best of a basement apartment space. apartment therapy submissions yesterday before and after: tearing out this kooky carpet transforms this living roomhome projects these homeowners got their keys at 4 p.m. on a friday, and by 6 p.m. had already started tearing out the carpet. alison goldman 2 days ago b&a: thanks to ikea cabinets, a dark 75-square-foot kitchen is now modern tours shannon tate-giordano of shannon tate interiors says this kitchen's remodel has changed her clients' lives. "good kitchens always do." apartment therapy submissions 2 days ago before and after: this 1970s front door got a springy redo in just a weekendhome projects this curb appeal update has lots of doable ideas. megan baker mar 22, 2020 10 of our favorite home office redos to inspire your work-from-home setuphome projects spoiler: you can make a home office almost anywhere. ashley poskin mar 20, 2020 b&a: every room in this house with knotty pine and smelly carpet got a refreshtours bought sight-unseen, before the renovation this house was a mix of mid-century and mid-1980s design—with endless knotty pine and old, smelly carpet throughout! apartment therapy submissions mar 20, 2020 before and after: a $2,500 refresher keeps this 1950s kitchen's charm intacthome projects all the inspo you need to wallpaper your kitchen. megan baker mar 19, 2020 before and after: paint and elbow grease totally transform these sad stairshome projects these stairs just leveled up—by a lot! megan baker mar 18, 2020 before and after: a storage nook turned chic, practical home office for $150home projects from junk storage to productivity haven. megan baker mar 17, 2020 b&a: an apartment gets a refresh after 10 years of 'ready-to-use' furnituretours this apartment was furnished with ready-to-use cane furniture when urvashi moved in. after almost a decade of living like that, she refreshed the entire space two years ago, adding style and storage to the small-ish space! apartment therapy submissions mar 17, 2020 before and after: one little change totally transforms this rental bedroomhome projects so much of this redo uses things that were already in the room—the ultimate budget hack. megan baker mar 15, 2020 before and after: just $2,000 turns this '90s kitchen into a scandi-boho dreamhome projects this diy kitchen redo is full of smart savings. megan baker mar 14, 2020 15 inspiring dresser redo ideas that go beyond just painthome projects you'll never pass up an old piece of furniture again after you see these makeovers. cat meschia mar 13, 2020 this once-sad san francisco home is now a wallpaper wonderlandtours cw stockwell ceo katy polsby reinvigorated her apartment in this san francisco house with lots of patterned wallpaper and color! apartment therapy submissions mar 13, 2020 b&a: this rental was transformed with contact paper, paint, and thrift finds tours taylored diy transformed this rental apartment with elements like faux marble counter covering, paint and supplies for painting cabinets, and thrifted/yard sale furniture finds. apartment therapy submissions mar 12, 2020 before and after: this springy $1,000 bathroom redo covers every little detailhome projects the before is fine, but the after will give you heart-eyes. megan baker mar 11, 2020 before and after: a cookie cutter camper gets a black and white modern farmhouse makeoverhome projects chip & jo would be proud. lauren jones mar 11, 2020 before and after: a $340 diy bedroom proves the power of a fresh, fun paint jobhome projects this budget bedroom has some super smart ideas. megan baker mar 10, 2020 before and after: this powder room's after is full of the best kind of dramahome projects the wallpaper will make you gasp. megan baker mar 9, 2020 before and after: $140 turns a cramped closet into a super organized entrywayhome projects cubbies! hooks! baskets! this entryway's small, but it's got it all. megan baker mar 8, 2020 before and after: with less than $100, this dark dresser is totally transformedhome projects you won't recognize the after. megan baker mar 7, 2020 before and after: $200 made this living room window seat a dramatic focal pointhome projects this black-and-white redo is totally diyable. megan baker mar 6, 2020 b&a: this once-cluttered paris apartment's now an incredibly chic, classic hometours the "after" is so, so gorgeous! adrienne breaux mar 4, 2020 before and after: this living room proves "cozy" doesn't have to mean "cramped"home projects knocking out a wall made this space way more inviting. alison goldman mar 3, 2020 b&a: a dated kitchen's incredibly colorful remodel still honors its retro rootstours this 1920s house's kitchen was old, but not in a charming way. the floor was dirty linoleum, the counters had gross tile and grout, the sink was chipped, and the lighting was ugly fluorescent! apartment therapy submissions mar 3, 2020 before and after: a $250 accent wall gives this office major chic credhome projects the hodgepodge craft space got a major glow up that made it way more functional, too. alison goldman mar 2, 2020 before and after: a 119-year-old bedroom gets its groove backhome projects there was a lot of pretty stuff hiding under all that beige paint! alison goldman mar 1, 2020 before and after: a $5,000 diy master bathroom that looks 10 times as expensivehome projects the before stunk—literally. but the after is a dream! alison goldman feb 29, 2020 before and after: this bold $100 floor redo will stop you in your trackshome projects paint gets another point in the "w" column. alison goldman feb 28, 2020 before and after: bobby berk gave his parents’ dated home the “queer eye” makeover treatmentnews buh-bye, popcorn ceiling! nicoletta richardson feb 26, 2020 before and after: $500 turned this bland bedroom into a creative craft spacehome projects the faux daybed is very smart. megan baker feb 25, 2020 b&a: a 128-square-foot trailer with dated decor gets a bright face lifttours this interior designer updated her travel trailer's dated interior with new paint, hardware, flooring, wallpaper, and upholstery. apartment therapy submissions feb 25, 2020 before and after: this funky $100 bathroom redo uses paint in surprising wayshome projects you won't see the after coming! megan baker feb 23, 2020 before and after: a $150, 3-day project gives a plain living room some wowhome projects "it's a low-cost project that can change the look and vibe of a room completely," says the homeowner. megan baker feb 22, 2020 before and after: a cheery nursery filled with ikea hackshome projects honestly? i'd live in this nursery. megan baker feb 21, 2020 follow us got a tip, kitchen tour, or other story our readers should see? tell us about it! read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop company partner with us about contact press terms of use privacy policy eu data subject requests california do not sell our team jobs site map apartment therapy is © 1994-2020 apartment therapy, llc