wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » beginner’s guide: how to choose the best wordpress plugin beginner’s guide: how to choose the best wordpress plugin last updated on september 4th, 2018 by editorial staff 451 shares share tweet share pin plugins make wordpress a dream come true for beginners. however, with over 56,000 wordpress plugins available in the official plugin directory, users find it difficult to find the right wordpress plugin for the job. in this article, we will show you how to choose the best wordpress plugin by following the same checklist that our team at wpbeginner and other wordpress experts follow. disclaimer: while these factors won’t guarantee that you’ll pick the right plugin 100% of the time, it will definitely increase your chances of success. before you start when looking for a plugin, the first thing you should do is write down exactly what you want this plugin to do. in our experience, it helps if you create a checklist with features that you’re looking for (in the order of importance). the order of importance matter because sometimes you won’t find everything in one plugin. the importance factor will help make your decision easier. remember that it doesn’t have to be one plugin that does everything. if you find two plugins that work well together to give you what you need, then install those 2 plugins. the total count of plugins does not matter, the quality does. having said that, let’s take a look at how to choose the best wordpress plugin. how to search for a plugin wordpress plugin directory is the starting point for most people. it has thousands of plugins available which is great except that this abundance also makes it difficult to find the perfect plugin. the search feature in wordpress plugin directory is not very sophisticated. this is why we always recommend using google search or look through the wpbeginner’s plugins category first. you can also combine the best of both by typing your keyword in google search and add wpbeginner at the end of it. alternatively, you can start by browsing the most popular wordpress plugins in the directory. see if there is a plugin that fits your need. if you can’t find a plugin in the first two pages of popular plugins, then run a search. wordpress plugin directory search shows results based on relevance by default. for each search result, you will be able to see the plugin name, rating, description, number of active installs (websites using the plugin), author name, and tested with wordpress version. ideally, you want to choose a plugin that sounds relevant to you, has a decent number of active installs, a good rating, and tested with a recent wordpress version. comparing plugins – which one to download? once you have found a couple of plugins, you can open these plugin pages in new tabs to compare them. wordpress plugin page contains information about the plugin, what it does, how to use it, etc. you will need to use this information to decide whether or not this plugin is the best fit for you. the sidebar on plugin page contains useful information about the plugin. the first section in the sidebar shows the plugin version, last updated, active installations, minimum wordpress version required to run the plugin. a plugins last updated date and active installs are a good indicator of a plugin’s popularity. this section will also show tested up to wordpress version. if it doesn’t show the most recent version, then there is no need to freak out. although plugin authors check their plugin with each new wordpress release, they may only update the plugin if needed. please see our article about installing plugins not tested with your wordpress version for more details. plugin ratings in the sidebar of plugin page, you will also be able to see plugin ratings. the number of stars indicates rating score, where five is the highest and one being the lowest. you should always keep in mind that a lot of wordpress users use the plugin without rating it. it is possible that a plugin downloaded by thousands of people may still not have enough people rating it. plugin reviews when a user rates a plugin, they are asked to write a review for their rating. you can see these reviews by clicking on the rating bars. for example, if someone has given a plugin one star then you can click on the 1 star link to read their review. another thing to notice here is the total number of ratings. for example, if a plugin only has one or two people rating it, then it is really not a significant number. however, if those one or two people left a good reason for their rating in the review, then this would make their rating significant for others. support overview the support section of the plugin page’s sidebar will give you a quick overview of the number of support threads opened for a plugin during last two months. it will also show you how many of these threads are resolved. you can see support threads by clicking on the support tab in the plugin menu bar. just like the reviews, keep in mind that unresolved support threads do not really mean that the plugin has some issues. however, if a plugin has many unresolved threads and the plugin author has not responded to any of them in last two months, then this could be an indicator that the author has lost interest. the plugin may still work for you, but it may not be supported in the long run. plugin screenshots for most wordpress plugins in the directory, you will see a screenshots section below the plugin description. plugin screenshots are a quick way to see how the plugin looks on the front-end and on the back-end of your wordpress website. sometimes we find screenshots to be more helpful than the actual plugin descriptions which could be lengthy and confusing. with screenshots, you can actually see how the plugin will look, what it actually does and then you can quickly find out whether or not you should try it. check faqs and other notes don’t forget to check faqs, and other notes sections below the plugin description (some plugins may not have them). these sections usually contain useful information about how to use a plugin. sometimes users end up complaining that a plugin does not work without even reading how to use it. when you are trying a plugin, make sure you read these sections so that you can configure and use the plugin properly on your website. it is also possible that you will find some other cool tips there. for example, if you are a looking for a plugin that adds a widget, then you might find out that it also provides a template tag which you can use in your theme or a shortcode which you can use in posts and pages. you may also find out plugin author’s advice on how to add your own css styles to plugin output. testing a plugin wordpress plugins may slow down your website if they are poorly written or don’t follow wordpress coding standards. to check for this problem go to pingdom or any other site speed checking service. test your website’s page speed before activating the plugin. take screenshots or note down the results. after that, go back to your wordpress website and activate the plugin. now test your website speed again. if the plugin adds a significant amount of time to your site’s speed, then you should try finding a better plugin. for example, in the screenshot below you will see that a plugin has added extra 0.8 seconds to our test site’s load time making it significantly slower. giving back to the wordpress community and plugin authors wordpress is a free community software and so is the wordpress plugin directory. plugin authors put a lot of their time, hard work, and creativity in writing those plugins. you can help them in many ways and here is a list of things you can do: donate: if you find a plugin useful and the plugin author has donate url on plugin page, then please consider donating some money. it is not the price of the plugin, it is a token of appreciation. rate the plugin: as we mentioned earlier that a lot of users don’t feel much inclined to rate a plugin that works fine. you can help break this trend. when you find a plugin that you like, then leave a rating and a review. a few lines are good enough to let people know about your experience with the plugin. mention the plugin on your blog, twitter or facebook. what to do when a plugin doesn’t work if a plugin gives an error or does not work, then the first thing you would want to do is find out if it is having a conflict with another plugin or theme. deactivate all other plugins and activate default wordpress theme. try testing the plugin again. if it still does not work, then you might want to open a support thread. visit the plugin page on wordpress plugin direcory and click on support tab. scroll down till you find the support form and fill it out. remember, that wordpress plugins are open source which means that they come with no warranty at all and the plugin authors are not required to answer your questions. however, most plugin authors care about their code and will try their best to answer support questions whenever they can. check out our guide on how to properly ask for wordpress support and get it. we hope this guide helped you choose the best wordpress plugin. you may also want to see our expert-pick of the essential wordpress plugins for every website. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 451 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 9 commentsleave a reply your real name says: may 22, 2016 at 3:29 pm is wp beginner only for self-hosted wp blogs? is there a difference between available plug-ins for wp-hosted and self-hosted blogs? reply wpbeginner support says: may 22, 2016 at 3:58 pm yes, wpbeginner is a resource site for self-hosted wordpress websites. please see our guide on the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs free wordpress.com blog. reply kay says: jan 21, 2016 at 3:03 pm i’ve had a really hard time finding good plugins and getting support (especially from pro/paid plugins). i’m super frustrated with it because there’s really nowhere to get help short of hiring someone and paying high fees i can’t afford (hence the reasons i’m learning to build my own site). i was hoping to sort them by rating but according to you this isn’t going to be a good way to go because i’ll get a bunch of unrelated options. but if i did want to try to sort through it by highest rating how would i do that because i don’t see this option in the site. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jan 22, 2016 at 2:43 am support is always concern for many wordpress users. we would recommend you to take a look at our showcase section. we have some lists of our favorite wordpress plugins that you might find helpful. reply wpbeginner staff says: may 19, 2014 at 7:33 am you need to install plugins from reliable sources only. if there is a security vulnerability in a plugin, then there is a good chance that it will be caught and resolved quickly. however, there are some best practices that you should follow when installing new plugins. checkout our guide on how to choose the best wordpress plugins. reply don says: may 14, 2014 at 1:24 pm i’m building my first website in wp, thus attempting to garner all helpful ‘how to’s.’ i find it very tempting in wp to select various plugins; however, street buzz indicates that plugins make it easy for hackers to penetrate a website. what is wpbeginner’s position on this issue? reply sunil kumar says: may 9, 2014 at 1:10 am yes, it’s a good to do some research before picking any plugin for our blog. i think reading users review on the plugin is a one of the best practice. thank for sharing these points. reply greg jones says: may 8, 2014 at 11:17 am is it valid to compare a ping from dallas with one from the netherlands? reply max says: may 9, 2014 at 4:57 am no, not at all, i saw up to a 3 seconds difference from amsterdam to dallas and ny before “cleaning” my site; but a 10 queries difference is noteworthy nevertheless reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.