wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » beginner’s guide: what is a domain name and how do domains work? beginner’s guide: what is a domain name and how do domains work? last updated on august 23rd, 2019 by editorial staff 654 shares share tweet share pin we are often asked by beginners: what is a domain name and how do domains work? if you are a beginner, then you may have heard that you need a domain to make a website. however, many beginners confuse domain name with a website or website hosting service. if you are just starting out, then all these different terms may sound too technical. in this beginner’s guide, we will answer what is a domain name and how domains work. the goal is to help you understand and choose the right domain name for your website. here is a quick overview of the topics we will cover in this guide. what is a domain name? how domains work? how is domain name different from website and web hosting? different types of domain names who is responsible for the domain name system? how to choose a domain name how to buy a domain name frequently asked questions about domain names what is a domain name? domain name is the address of your website that people type in the browser url bar to visit your website. in simple terms, if your website was a house, then your domain name will be its address. a more detailed explanation: the internet is a giant network of computers connected to each other through a global network of cables. each computer on this network can communicate with other computers. to identify them, each computer is assigned an ip address. it is a series of numbers that identify a particular computer on the internet. a typical ip address looks like this: 66.249.66.1 now an ip address like this is quite difficult to remember. imagine if you had to use such numbers to visit your favorite websites. domain names were invented to solve this problem. now if you want to visit a website, then you don’t need to enter a long string of numbers. instead, you can visit it by typing an easy to remember domain name in your browser’s address bar. for example, wpbeginner.com. how domain names actually work? to understand how domain names actually work, we will take a look at what happens when you enter it in your browser. when you enter a domain name in your web browser, it first sends a request to a global network of servers that form the domain name system (dns). these servers then look up for the name servers associated with the domain and forward the request to those name servers. for example, if your website is hosted on bluehost, then its name server information will be like this: ns1.bluehost.com ns2.bluehost.com these name servers are computers managed by your hosting company. your hosting company will forward your request to the computer where your website is stored. this computer is called a web server. it has special software installed (apache, nginx are two popular web server software). the web server now fetches the web page and pieces of information associated with it. finally, it then sends this data back to the browser. how is domain name different from a website and web hosting? a website is made up of files like html pages, website builder software, images, and more. if the domain name is the web address of your website, then web hosting is the home where your website lives. this is the actual computer where your website’s files are stored. such computers are called servers and they are offered as a service by hosting companies. to create your website, you need both domain name and web hosting. however, it’s important to remember that they are two separate services, and you can buy them from two different companies. now you may be wondering, how would it work if you bought them from two separate companies? you just need to edit your domain name settings and enter the name server information provided by your hosting company. name server information defines where to send user requests for your domain name. we recommend getting both your domain name and hosting from the same company. this allows you to easily manage them under the same account. for more details, see our guide on the difference between domain name and web hosting. different types of domain names domain names are available in many different extensions. the most popular one is .com. there are many other options like .org, .net, .tv, .info, .io, and more. however we always recommend using .com domain extension. let’s take a more detailed look at different types of domain names available. top level domain – tld top level domain or tld are generic domain extensions that are listed at the highest level in the domain name system. there are hundreds of tlds, but the most popular ones are .com, .org, and .net. other tlds are lesser known and we don’t recommend using them. for example, .biz, .club, .info, .agency, and many more. country code top level domain – cctld country code top-level domain or cctld are country specific domain names which end with country code extension like .uk for the united kingdom, .de for germany, .in for india. they are used by websites that want to target audiences in a specific country. sponsored top level domain – stld sponsored top-level domain or stld is a category of tlds that has a sponsor representing a specific community served by the domain extension. for example, .edu for education-related organizations, .gov for the united states government, .mil for the united states military, and more. who is responsible for domain name system? internet corporation for assigned names and numbers (icann) manages the domain names system. it is a non-profit organization that creates and implements the policies for domain names. icann gives permission to companies called domain name registrars for selling domain names. these domain registrars are allowed to make changes to domain names registry on your behalf. domain name registrars can sell domain names, manage its records, renewals, and transfers to other registrars. as a domain name owner, you are responsible for telling the registrar where to send requests. you are also responsible for renewing your domain registration. how to choose a domain name for your website? there are currently more than 350 million registered domain names and thousands more get registered each day. this means that all the good ones are already registered or will be registered very soon. this puts a lot of pressure on new users to come up with a domain idea for their website. here are some quick tips to help you choose a domain name for your next website. stick with a .com domain name as it is the most popular, easy to remember, and easy promote. make sure it is shorter and easy to remember make it easy to pronounce and spell do not use numbers or hyphens use domain name generators to come up with clever domain name ideas for more tips and practical advice, see our guide on how to choose the best domain name for your website. how to buy a domain name? you can buy domain names from one of the many domain name registrars. a domain name typically costs 14.99 per year. some popular domain name companies are: domain.com (use this domain.com coupon to get a discount) godaddy however, buying domain does not automatically give you hosting service. for that, you will need a website hosting account as well. many wordpress hosting companies offer domain registration services as well. this allows you to manage both services under one account, and you also don’t need to worry about changing name server settings for your domain. we recommend using bluehost. they are offering wpbeginner users a free domain name and 60% discount on hosting. basically you can get started for $2.75/month. frequently asked questions about domain names over the years we have helped thousands of beginners start their first websites. we have heard almost every possible question about domain names that you can think of. following are the answers to some of the most commonly asked questions about domain names. 1. what is a subdomain? a subdomain is basically a child domain under the main domain name. for example, videos.wpbeginner.com is a subdomain of wpbeginner.com. once you register a domain, you have the permission to create subdomains for it by yourself. subdomains are commonly used by websites to create child-sites under the same domain name. for example, a business website can create a subdomain for their blog or their online store as store.example.com or blog.example.com 2. can i cancel my registration of a domain name? some domain registrars allow you to cancel your domain registration at any time. if you cancel your registration, it will become available for others to register. other domain name registrars allow you to simply let your domain registration expire. in most cases, you will not get any refund for the domain registration. however, some domain registrars do have refund policies which you may want to discuss with them before canceling your registration. if you don’t have the auto-renew feature turned on, then your domain name will simply expire after the registration period you have paid for. 3. can i move my website to a different domain name? yes, you can. you can point your domain name to your hosting server. you can also keep both domain names pointing to the same website. however, search engines consider it duplicate content and that will affect your search rankings. we have a step by step guide on how to properly move a website to new domain name and setup redirects, so you don’t hurt your seo. 4. can i sell a domain name? yes, you can sell your domain name. domain names are like real estate for web. there is a huge demand for good brandable custom domain names. trading domain names is a multi-million dollar industry. since domain names are so cheap, smart entrepreneurs are always looking for great domain name ideas to get their hands own. if you want to sell your domain name, then there are many marketplace websites like sedo, godaddy, and others where you can list your domain for sale. popular registrars like domain.com also let you buy premium domains right from their domain search feature. related: see the best godaddy alternatives for buying domains. 5. what is domain privacy? do i need it? icann requires people registering domain names to provide an email, physical address, phone number, and other personal information to be made available publicly. domain privacy is a separate add-on service sold by domain registrars. it allows you to show proxy information instead of your actual personal info. you don’t need to buy domain privacy if you don’t want to. however if you are concerned about privacy, then you can buy this service for a small cost. 6. can i buy more than one domain name? yes, you can buy as many domain names as you like. 7. where can i learn more about making websites? right here. wpbeginner is the world’s largest wordpress resource site for beginners. we have tutorials, step by step guides, and videos created specifically for beginner users. here are some of the helpful resources you’ll find on wpbeginner (all of them are completely free). how to make a website (step by step guide for beginners) wpbeginner videos – our series wordpress video tutorials for beginners wpbeginner dictionary – our glossary of terms to help you understand the wordpress lingo wpbeginner blog – this is where we publish our wordpress tutorials, how tos, and step by step guides. wpbeginner on youtube – need more video instructions? subscribe to our youtube channel with more than 126,000 subscribers and 12 million+ views. we hope this article helped you learn what is a domain name and how do domains work. you may also want to see our list of best free domain name generators to find cool ideas for your next domain name. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 654 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 17 commentsleave a reply russkii tudor says: mar 24, 2020 at 8:12 am can i make a website using only my up address. idk i’m first time doing a website reply wpbeginner support says: mar 24, 2020 at 8:52 am you would need to use the server’s ip address if you do not have a domain for your site reply debasish ghosh says: mar 4, 2019 at 3:28 am this is really help full i recently created a blog with all your given instructions and i when i need to know something about wordpress i just visit your site because your all articles are so easy to follow the instruction. so thanks reply wpbeginner support says: mar 4, 2019 at 2:06 pm you’re welcome, glad our site can help reply belmadeng says: feb 20, 2019 at 3:49 pm thanks a lot for the ultimate guide. it was extremely useful. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 21, 2019 at 10:17 am you’re welcome reply johnl says: jan 12, 2019 at 7:10 am thank you for this great article! after several search and test for how can i fix a dns problem, i was driven to search for how domain names work, so this was my first article to begin with. my problem is that my subdomain doesn’t work and it is redirecting me to /cgi-sys/defaultwebpage.cgi note: i’m using cloudflare for the main domain and i have added a record of my subdomain. please give us a solution for that problem in a detailed article since no one talk about that and a lot of people have the same problem ps. i have contacted my host provider and nothing works reply wpbeginner support says: jan 14, 2019 at 1:50 pm that error is most commonly caused by your dns not being fully updated when creating a new subdomain in which case you would need to clear your cache and you may want to try renaming your htaccess file. if the error continues you may want to reach out to your hosting provider again and let them know about the continued issue. reply johnl says: jan 17, 2019 at 3:42 pm i solved the problem by deleting the cache on cloudflare and exactly by turning off the ssl certificate in cloudflare until that the ssl certificate works on bluehost because it was in progress. after doing that everything is working great. thank you for your support and suggestion reply wpbeginner support says: jan 18, 2019 at 10:17 am glad you were able to get it resolved and thanks for sharing your solution should others run into this issue olusegun says: may 15, 2018 at 7:48 am what is the relationship between a website and the email associated to the website? my website is hosted by one registrar and the email by another registrar and the domain name by another registrar can they be merged and manage with one account? reply wpbeginner support says: may 17, 2018 at 4:54 am hi olusegun, yes they can be merged if your email service provider supports custom domain names (most of them do), then you can use your website’s domain name in your email addresses. please contact your email service provider for more details. reply habib says: nov 14, 2017 at 9:01 am hi sir i have build website at wp and i have installed google xml sitemap plugin but i am not getting my sitemap i have tried many times please help me. reply adeogun titus says: oct 13, 2017 at 8:58 am hi! i hosted with bluehost as recommended few weeks ago. am having difficulty setting up my site email. pls i need a link to guide me in doing this. thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: oct 15, 2017 at 9:19 pm hi adeogun, please see our guide on how to fix wordpress not sending email issue. reply aaron davis says: oct 12, 2017 at 7:38 am is it true that if you register your domain name through wp.com that can cannot take it elsewhere± reply editorial staff says: oct 12, 2017 at 8:59 am no it’s not true. you can transfer the domain after 60 days of registration. the 60 day lock is a policy of icann (not wordpress.com). you can find more instructions here: https://en.support.wordpress.com/move-domain/transfer-domain-registration/ reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) media temple coupon get 20% off on all media temple hosting plans. all in one seo pro coupon get 50% off all in one seo pack pro, the most popular wordpress seo plugin in the market. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.