moz products blog about search resources resources moz pro moz local free seo tools log in menu icon-close seo learning center broaden your seo knowledge with resources for all skill levels. the beginner's guide to seo if you're brand new to seo, start here. seo q&a get answers from the moz community. free downloads and more quick access to whitepapers, reports, guides, webinars, and case studies. help hub learn how to use moz products. community & events connect with over 600k online marketers. seo training instructor-led classes and seminars an all-in-one seo toolset to boost your search engine rankings. learn about moz pro get started free link explorer the ultimate link analysis tool, complete with competitor insights. keyword explorer discover and prioritize the best keywords for your site. mozbar get live page metrics right in your chrome browser. moz pro home campaigns monitor your seo performance and get insights to increase organic traffic. local market analytics beta spot opportunity in target markets with local metrics and top serp competitors. research tools keyword explorer link explorer fresh web explorer on-page grader on-demand crawl rank checker local data management solution to help customers find your business online. learn about moz local get started free moz local enterprise local data management that is simple and cost effective for hundreds or thousands of locations. check my online presence see how complete and consistent your business’s location appears across the web. manage location dashboard check online presence search products blog about resources seo learning center the beginner's guide to seo seo q&a free downloads and more help hub community & events seo training moz pro learn about moz pro moz pro home link explorer keyword explorer mozbar moz local learn about moz local moz local enterprise check my online presence free seo tools log in moz pro moz pro how it works solutions pricing testimonials start my free 30-day trial how it works solutions pricing testimonials start my free 30-day trial the beginner's guide to seo rankings and traffic through search engine optimization explore the chapters: chapters introductionseo 101how search engines work: crawling, indexing, and rankingkeyword researchon-page seotechnical seolink building & establishing authoritymeasuring & tracking seo successseo glossary next introduction welcome to your seo learning journey! you'll get the most out of this guide if your desire to learn search engine optimization (seo) is exceeded only by your willingness to execute and test concepts. this guide is designed to describe all major aspects of seo, from finding the terms and phrases (keywords) that can generate qualified traffic to your website, to making your site friendly to search engines, to building links and marketing the unique value of your site. the world of search engine optimization is complex and ever-changing, but you can easily understand the basics, and even a small amount of seo knowledge can make a big difference. free seo education is also widely available on the web, including in guides like this! (woohoo!) combine this information with some practice and you are well on your way to becoming a savvy seo. the basics of search engine optimization ever heard of maslow's hierarchy of needs? it's a theory of psychology that prioritizes the most fundamental human needs (like air, water, and physical safety) over more advanced needs (like esteem and social belonging). the theory is that you can't achieve the needs at the top without ensuring the more fundamental needs are met first. love doesn't matter if you don't have food. our founder, rand fishkin, made a similar pyramid to explain the way folks should go about seo, and we've affectionately dubbed it "mozlow's hierarchy of seo needs." here's what it looks like: as you can see, the foundation of good seo begins with ensuring crawl accessibility, and moves up from there. using this beginner's guide, we can follow these seven steps to successful seo: crawl accessibility so engines can read your website compelling content that answers the searcher’s query keyword optimized to attract searchers & engines great user experience including a fast load speed and compelling ux share-worthy content that earns links, citations, and amplification title, url, & description to draw high ctr in the rankings snippet/schema markup to stand out in serps we'll spend time on each of these areas throughout this guide, but we wanted to introduce it here because it offers a look at how we structured the guide as a whole. explore the chapters... chapter 1: seo 101 what is it, and why is it important? for true beginners. learn what search engine optimization is, why it matters, and all the need-to-know basics to start yourself off right. chapter 2: how search engines work – crawling, indexing, and ranking first, you need to show up. if search engines literally can't find you, none of the rest of your work matters. this chapter shows you how their robots crawl the internet to find your site and add it to their indexes. chapter 3: keyword research understand what your audience wants to find. our approach targets users first because that's what search engines reward. this chapter covers keyword research and other methods to determine what your audience is seeking. chapter 4: on-site optimization use your research to craft your message. this is a hefty chapter, covering optimized design, user experience, information architecture, and all the ways you can adjust how you publish content to maximize its visibility and resonance with your audience. chapter 5: technical seo basic technical knowledge will help you optimize your site for search engines and establish credibility with developers. by implementing responsive design, robot directives, and other technical elements like structured data and meta tags, you can tell google (a robot itself) what your site is all about. this helps it rank for the right things. chapter 6: link building & establishing authority turn up the volume. once you've got everything in place, it's time to expand your influence by earning attention and links from other sites and influencers. chapter 7: measuring, prioritizing, & executing seo set yourself up for success. an essential part of any seo strategy is knowing what's working (and what isn't), adjusting your approach as you go along. the seo glossary understand key terms and phrases. learning seo can sometimes feel like learning another language, with all the jargon and industry terms you're expected to know. this chapter-by-chapter glossary will help you get a handle on all the new words. how much of this guide do i need to read? if you're serious about improving search traffic and are unfamiliar with seo, we recommend reading the beginner's guide to seo front-to-back. we've tried to make it as concise and easy to understand as possible, and learning the basics of seo is a vital first step in achieving your online business goals. go through at the pace that suits you best, and be sure to take note of the dozens of resources we link to throughout the chapters — they're also worthy of your attention. getting excited yet? you should be! search engine marketing is a fascinating field and can be lots of fun! if you get confused, don't give up; we have folks who can help you with instructor-led seo training seminars. we're excited you're here! grab a cup of coffee, and let's dive into chapter 1 (seo 101). introduction 1 seo 101 2 how search engines work: crawling, indexing, and ranking 3 keyword research 4 on-page seo 5 technical seo 6 link building & establishing authority 7 measuring & tracking seo success 8 seo glossary moz contact products api free trial terms & privacy jobs help news & press copyright 2020 © moz, inc. all rights reserved. back to top seo tools keyword research seo audit & crawl backlink research rank tracking seo toolbar domain analysis local marketing business listings audit citation cleanup local ranking factors local for enterprise marketing resources moz blog beginner’s guide to seo community q&a workshops & training recommended seo companies moz solutions agency enterprise small & mid-sized businesses get the moz top 10 the 10 most valuable pieces of content we can find for seos. every 2 weeks. subscribe today