wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » beginners guide: how to install a wordpress theme beginners guide: how to install a wordpress theme last updated on march 17th, 2020 by editorial staff 206 shares share tweet share pin are you looking to install a wordpress theme? there are thousands of wordpress themes available (both free and paid). as a beginner, you may want to try out a few of them on your site until you find the right one. in this beginner’s guide, we’ll share detailed step by step instructions on how to install a wordpress theme. we’ll cover three different ways to install a wordpress theme, so you can choose the method that works best for you. before you install a wordpress theme installing a wordpress theme is easy but keep in mind that if you activate a new theme, then it will change how your website looks and functions. if you’re switching from an existing theme, then you may want to look at our checklist of things you need to do before changing wordpress themes. if you are installing a wordpress theme on a new site, then you are good to go. bonus tip: see our list of the best and most popular wordpress themes. video tutorial subscribe to wpbeginner if you don’t like the video or need more instructions, then continue reading. install a theme using wordpress admin theme search if you’re looking to install a free wordpress theme from the wordpress.org themes directory, then the easiest way is by using the built-in theme search functionality. the first thing you need to do is log in to your wordpress admin area. next, go to the appearance » themes page and click on the add new button. on the next screen, you will have the ability to select from: featured wordpress themes, popular wordpress themes, latest wordpress themes, search for a specific theme, or search for themes with specific features. clicking on the ‘feature filter’ button will allow you to sort themes based on features. for instance, you can sort themes by subject, specific features, and layout. based on your search, you will see a list of themes that met your criteria. in our case, we searched for the popular astra theme. when you see the theme that you want to install, simply bring your mouse on top of the image. this will reveal the install button, preview button, and details button. go ahead and click on the install button. wordpress will now install your theme and show you a success message along with ‘activate’ or ‘live preview’ buttons. click on the activate button, and you’ve successfully installed and activated your wordpress theme. depending on the theme, it may add additional settings options that you may need to configure. for instance, your theme may ask you to install the recommended plugins, download demo data, or review settings. you can follow the on-screen instructions, or click on the customize button to start setting up your theme. install a theme by using the upload method from wordpress admin the first method that we covered only allows you to install free themes that are available in the wordpress.org theme’s directory. what if you want to install a premium wordpress theme from companies like studiopress, elegant themes, themify, etc. or what if you want to install a custom theme? well, in this case, you would need to install the theme using the upload method from your wordpress admin. start by downloading the .zip file of the theme that you purchased from a marketplace or a commercial theme shop. next, go to the appearance » themes page in wordpress admin area and click on the add new button at the top. this will take you to the add new theme page showing featured free themes. since you already have the theme you want to install, go ahead and click on the ‘upload theme’ button at the top. you will be prompted to choose the zip file that you downloaded earlier. select the file and click install now. once your theme is installed, you will see a success message along with the link to activate and preview the theme. click on the ‘activate’ link, and you’ve successfully installed and activated your wordpress theme. depending on the theme, it may add additional settings options that you may need to configure either through the theme customizer or through a separate options panel. note: the theme upload functionality is only available for self-hosted wordpress.org users. if you’re using wordpress.com, then you will not see this option because it limits you. in order to use custom theme upload feature, you would need to use self-hosted wordpress.org (see this article that explains the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs wordpress.com). if you want to switch from wordpress.com to wordpress.org, then read our tutorial on how to properly move from wordpress.com to wordpress.org. installing a wordpress theme using ftp if you’re feeling adventurous and want to take your skills to the next level, then you can learn about installing wordpress themes using ftp. remember, this is not for true beginners because it is a little bit more advanced. first, you need to download the theme zip file to your computer. after that, you need to unzip the file. this will create a new folder with the theme’s name on your computer. we downloaded the popular divi premium theme. now that you have the theme files, you are ready to upload them to your website. to do that, you’ll need to connect to your website / wordpress hosting account using an ftp client. if you need help, then see our guide on how to use ftp to upload wordpress files. once connected, you need to go to /wp-content/themes/ folder. inside, you’ll see folders for all themes currently installed on your website. select your unzipped theme folder from your computer and then upload it to your website. once you have uploaded the theme, you would need to go to your admin area and click on appearance » themes. you should see the theme that you uploaded listed there. simply bring your mouse on top of that theme and click on the activate button. faqs about installing wordpress themes the following are some of the most commonly asked questions about installing wordpress themes. 1. how many themes can i use in wordpress? you can only use one theme at a time. however, you can install as many themes as you like. not all installed themes on your wordpress website are active. as soon as you activate a wordpress theme, it automatically deactivates your previous active theme and makes the new theme your active theme. 2. what is a child theme in wordpress? a child theme in wordpress is a sub-theme that inherits all the functionality, features, and style of its parent theme. you will need to install both parent and child themes on your website and activate the child theme. for more details, see our guide on how to create a child theme in wordpress and how to install a child theme in wordpress. 3. what is a wordpress theme framework? theme frameworks are highly optimized wordpress themes designed to be used as parent theme. intended for advanced users and developers, these theme frameworks contain several code and speed optimizations that help other developers quickly build upon them. genesis by studiopress is the best example of a wordpress theme framework. for more information, see our article on wordpress theme frameworks. 4. premium vs free themes – which one i should use? if you are just starting out on a limited budget, then we recommend getting started with a flexible free theme. see our pick of the best free wordpress themes for blogs and best free themes for business websites. if you can spend a little more, then choose a premium theme. these themes come with priority support which comes in handy particularly for beginners. for more on this topic, see our guide on free vs premium wordpress themes. 5. how do i choose the best theme for my website? there are so many wordpress themes out there and most of them are designed by professionals so they look really great. this makes it a bit confusing for beginners to choose the perfect theme for their website. we recommend keeping it simple. choose a minimalist design that comes close to what you have in your mind. make sure that the theme looks great on mobile and run a website speed test on the demo site. see our beginner’s guide on how to choose the perfect wordpress theme for your website. 6. can i use the same theme i have seen on another wordpress site? if it is not a custom wordpress theme, then you can find and use the same theme on your own website. see our guide on how to find out which wordpress theme a site is using. we hope this step by step guide helped you install a wordpress theme on your site. you may also want to see our guide on how to make money online from your new wordpress website, and the must have / best wordpress plugins. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also catch us on twitter and facebook. 206 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 92 commentsleave a reply zainul says: dec 2, 2019 at 9:59 am amazing information reply wpbeginner support says: dec 4, 2019 at 10:18 am thank you reply will says: nov 4, 2019 at 2:09 pm when i download my themes for some reason it seems i am missing something. for instance the last them i downloaded and installed had a graphic next to the page title and that wasn’t there, there was a graphic on the side bad, again not there…. as well as the background color. which was sorta lavender and as well that was not their either.. what am i doing wrong? reply wpbeginner support says: nov 5, 2019 at 10:23 am not all themes have their demo content as their defaults. if you reach out to your theme’s support they can let you know if they offer their demo content. reply will says: nov 5, 2019 at 10:48 am ok. the themes that are with wordpress should have all the demo content there right? or is that also just for demo reply wpbeginner support says: nov 6, 2019 at 9:17 am you would need to reach out to each theme for if their demo content is available. stephen newdell says: oct 16, 2019 at 12:33 am i want to know how to open a theme on my desktop so i can work with it here as a “local server” and then either copy/paste a page to my wordpress site or upload with ftp. i have the theme in a zipped folder on my desk now but how do i open it and put it to work learning my way around it? please help: advanced thanks reply wpbeginner support says: oct 16, 2019 at 10:15 am modifying a theme would require some coding knowledge, for a starting point you may want to take a look at our child theme article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-themes/how-to-create-a-wordpress-child-theme-video/ reply ahmad says: apr 20, 2019 at 5:42 pm hello, i followed the instructions to upload my custom theme, however, there isn’t an “add new” button. any ideas? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 22, 2019 at 11:58 am is your site on wordpress.com? we have an article explaining the differences here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/self-hosted-wordpress-org-vs-free-wordpress-com-infograph/ reply dogood says: feb 21, 2019 at 8:32 am how do i maintain the graphics that comes with a theme? themes will look very beautiful on vendor’s site but after installation, it’ll be looking boring. i’m sure there’s something i’m not doing correctly. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 21, 2019 at 10:53 am you would want to reach out to the theme’s support for if they have a method to replicate their demo content for how much of the demo content is available reply emmanuel kileo says: feb 2, 2019 at 6:23 am not found the requested url /index.php was not found on this server. additionally, a 404 not found error was encountered while trying to use an errordocument to handle the request. please i need some help guys reply wpbeginner support says: feb 4, 2019 at 2:25 pm you may want to recreate your htaccess file using the steps in: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/beginners-guide-to-troubleshooting-wordpress-errors-step-by-step/ reply douglas hamilton says: sep 2, 2018 at 7:18 am thankyou. unfortunately (i wont mention the website), dosent actually show you how to install the themes properly. they give you a brief look over, but not actually how to do it step by step. sometimes, its what you need, thanks again. reply sweta says: jun 29, 2018 at 6:46 am hi, i uploaded a new theme and activated it. but i am unable to visit the particular site. one default theme is showing. why? how can i visit the site which i uploaded? reply ken hay says: apr 15, 2018 at 9:30 pm pity you don’t make it very obvious at the start that you are only working with wordpress.org reply morgan says: apr 4, 2018 at 12:04 pm so i just followed these instructions to add a theme and after the theme uploaded successfully and i clicked “activate”, i received a parse error. how do i now undo this issue? thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 4, 2018 at 5:21 pm hey morgan, you can undo this by connecting to your website using ftp or file manager in cpanel dashboard. once connected, go to wp-content/themes/ folder and delete the theme you were trying to install. reply carla says: mar 14, 2018 at 3:34 pm i have dowloaded the pro version of my basic free wordpress theme because the pro version unlocks more features for colours and design. in my free theme it said : go pro. so that’s what i want to do. however when i upload the pro version through wp theme installer, it says installation failed because there is already a folder with that name. do you think the pro zip file has the same name as the free basic version? what should i do? use an other theme for a few minutes and de-install the free basic theme first? and then install the pro zip file? i’m unsure what to do. and will deinstalling it from my wordpress theme collection also deinstall it from my host server? reply editorial staff says: mar 14, 2018 at 4:24 pm you would want to first reach out to the theme’s support to ensure they do not have a recommended method to change to the pro version as it could have the same name. reply kennedy mukaria says: feb 26, 2018 at 8:33 am hi i found a new theme that i have downloaded and subsequently installed onto my wordpress site for under add themes> upload theme. i want to activate it and move no contents from the existing site. i intend to have it the way it is. any advice? thanks in advance reply lola says: feb 11, 2018 at 1:37 pm i bought a premium theme which i tried to upload to wordpress localhost. it keeps giving me this message; warning: post content length of 26678057 bytes exceeds the limit of 8388608 bytes in unknown on line 0 are you sure you want to do this? please try again. what could be wrong? and how can i rectify it? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: feb 12, 2018 at 4:00 pm hi lola, please follow the instructions in our guide on how to fix wordpress memory exhaustion error. reply kristy em says: jan 7, 2018 at 5:53 am hi, i am having issues here.. i have followed all this site’s steps to get my website on wordpress.org. i have a domain i bought a while ago, transferred it and have it successfully hosted now on bluehost. i just purchased a wordpress premium theme for $125 (which is p expensive..) and i can’t get the .zip file anywhere.. also, it auto installed onto the example.wordpress sites instead of my wordpress.org bluehosted nerdvegan.com and i have no idea how to switch it since there is nowhere to download the .zip file. also, having multiple sites listed in and of itself is messing me up, how do i get rid of everything but just the example.com that is on wordpress.org? please help!~ thank you in advance!! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 7, 2018 at 4:50 pm hi kristy, please contact the theme shop you purchased the theme from to help you find the zip file you need to install. once you are certain that you have the theme’s zip file on your computer. go a head and login to your wordpress website where you want to install the theme. go to the appearance » themes page and then click on the add new button. next, you need to click on the upload button to upload the theme file from your computer. please see the screenshots in the article above. reply kelly says: jan 25, 2018 at 10:59 am i am on wordpress right now and there is no button to add a theme as the screenshots show. did their pricing models change? does it require a premium version now to be able to do this? reply eghenure peace says: dec 3, 2017 at 1:06 pm this’ really helpful thanks a lot reply greg says: sep 9, 2017 at 8:25 pm do you guys have a tutorial for homemarket themes? can you guys help me find one? thanks reply manikandan says: sep 4, 2017 at 6:00 am i will installed wp in my linux fedora 24 64-bit laptop wp theme add button is hide never to see my localhost site reply kristiana says: aug 22, 2017 at 5:55 am thank you so much, this was so simple and clear, i hope you live a truly blessed life reply robert edward says: aug 10, 2017 at 5:58 pm hi i tried using all the options but still installation of new theme fails, what might the problem be??? reply fuad says: jul 24, 2017 at 3:45 am i am using a free plan wordpress theme. and i have download a new theme i liked. when i tried to install the new, there was no upload button. how can i install the new one? thank you reply wpbeginner support says: jul 24, 2017 at 9:06 pm hi fuad, it looks like you are using wordpress.com. please see our guide on the difference between wordpress.come and wordpress.org. reply alexis g says: apr 29, 2017 at 6:32 pm i just purchase my premium plan with my domain name and storage space (that whole package). when going to appearance>themes, there is no add new button? recommendations? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 30, 2017 at 3:44 pm hey alexis, are you sure you are using self hosted wordpress.org? please see our guide on the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs free wordpress.com blog. reply idan says: apr 5, 2017 at 11:07 am hi i don’t find the add new button what you suggest to do? i have your help!!? thanks! reply vamshi says: mar 8, 2017 at 5:48 am how to install .rar files in wp reply selin says: jan 4, 2017 at 5:31 am thanks for the article. i have a few questions as i’m a bit confused. i already have a live website hosted by inmotion hosting. i wanted to change the design so i found a theme on envato by themeforest, the provider was themezaa – and i bought the theme i liked. it was a wordpress theme. after i bought, i realised i don’t know the difference between a normal theme and a wordpress theme. i found out that i can only use this wordpress theme i bought from a wordpress editor – which is fine by me as i’m not a coder (i only received a 3 month online course on html and css circuits) so i know a bit about editing html and css. now that i bought the wordpress theme, i’m thinking, can i simply download the wordpress editor, keep my existing host (inmotion hosting), install this new theme, edit the contents and colors and then when i’m done simply connect my domain to my new website? is this how i’m suppose to do it? or do i need to cancel my existing host, and start paying wordpress.com to host my website as i’m using their editor? can you please let me know how this works? selin reply wpbeginner support says: jan 4, 2017 at 8:18 pm hi selin, first, please see our guide on the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs free wordpress.com blog. your theme would only work with self-hosted wordpress.org site. having said that, follow the instructions in our step by step wordpress installation tutorial to get started with wordpress. reply lorna says: jan 23, 2017 at 8:17 am hi i also i found a theme on envato by themeforest that i have downloaded and subsequently tried to upload onto my wordpress site for under add themes> upload theme and it does not want to install. it just says: “error: fail to upload.” any advice? i then went to load it through the c-panel- i loaded the zip file, unzipped it and went to my dashboard. the theme box comes up empty, i pressed activate and the theme shows up only as html. suggestions? thank you lorna reply wpbeginner support says: jan 23, 2017 at 4:28 pm hi lorna, please see your theme’s installation instructions. some theme developers on themeforest actually send you package which has documentation, psd files, and theme itself is a separate zip file inside the main folder. khet kumar says: dec 11, 2016 at 12:02 am if you don’t have the domain name or hosting still can you make the website on wordpress? after finishing the design can we buy the hosting and domain? is it possible? reply somnathdas says: dec 9, 2016 at 11:59 am do not charge my font reply vaibhav arora says: nov 17, 2016 at 11:41 pm it’s quite easy to follow thanks reply kevin says: nov 5, 2016 at 5:28 am it doesn’t matter what one believes they know. or .. how much of whatever it may be they think they know. with an open mind to receive an understanding. one may even amaze themselves of how easy life can be. i didn’t realize just how easy it was to install a theme i purchased. i’ve been at this marketing thing 8+ years. and i still don’t know everything there is to be successful online/ thanks! wp beginners for simplest advice for installing my “purchased” theme. reply sourav says: oct 21, 2016 at 1:19 pm i have clicked in appearance>theme. but i didn’t found add new button. please help me sir. make new and updated article. reply pankaj patidar says: dec 4, 2016 at 11:40 pm go to theme and then upload a theme then you will see add new theme. reply sandeep says: oct 10, 2016 at 2:56 pm when iam trying to click on appearance->theme-> they were not showing add new option reply raashid din dar says: apr 29, 2017 at 7:20 am are you premium user or free user reply dejan says: aug 30, 2016 at 3:22 am every time i install a new theme the old one get derange (menu, sliders…) any idea why? tnx reply floramae hallazgo says: aug 18, 2016 at 10:24 am thank you a bunch! all articles thati have read and video tutorials i have watched here really helped me a lot. congratulations to all the people behind this. it’s really amazingly helpful. reply nancy upchurch says: may 19, 2016 at 11:35 pm how long does it usually take to down load your theme? i’m importing demo data & it’s been 4 hours. i’m thinking something is wrong. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: may 20, 2016 at 10:48 pm please contact your wordpress theme developer. reply yogi says: jul 31, 2016 at 6:57 am hello nancy, there is something wrong. i bought some themes from themeforest and they are all 60 to 90 mb in size. it took me about 20 minutes to download them. so i think that the 4 hours download (which still did not completes), there is something wrong. you should contact the website admin from where you are downloading the theme. kind regards, yogi reply axel (quibblehead) says: may 3, 2016 at 8:43 am do i need to be a premium user to upload a theme? reply wpbeginner support says: may 3, 2016 at 4:50 pm no. not if you are using the self hosted wordpress.org. please see our guide on the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs free wordpress.com blog. reply joe says: apr 3, 2016 at 10:25 am great piece keep up the good work reply connor moulton says: jan 18, 2016 at 11:48 am there is no button for me to press to upload a theme, what should i do? reply neeshu says: jan 5, 2016 at 7:58 am after applying theme into exiting once no slider supported with image please solve problem reply harsh says: jan 3, 2016 at 4:27 pm hi… i have theme in my local machine which i am trying to upload on my wordpress (also on local machine) but everytime i try to upload theme.. it shows me error saying ” are you sure want to do this?” and link saying please try again which will jump me back to previous page… anyone know how can i tackle it??? reply cene says: mar 17, 2016 at 5:17 am hey, i get the same message, were you able to fix this already? help will be appreciated. reply mohammed asif says: nov 21, 2015 at 8:27 am how can i download theme from my website . thank you reply wpbeginner support says: nov 21, 2015 at 3:27 pm connect to your website using an ftp client. go to wp-content > themes folder. select your theme and then download it to your computer. reply michael says: nov 21, 2015 at 4:11 am can anyone tell me why, when i navigate to appearance > themes, i don’t have an ‘add new’ button? it’s very frustrating! reply eirini says: oct 4, 2015 at 11:22 am hi, i have bought a theme and i am trying to upload it, but i keep getting the message “are you sure you want to do that? try again?” am i doing something wrong here? reply jen says: jan 8, 2016 at 10:31 pm this is the problem i am having. please please please i need help reply madhulika says: nov 17, 2017 at 12:00 am please do change in ur php.ini file upload_max_filesize = 64m post_max_size = 64m memory_limit = 400m file_uploads = on max_execution_time = 180 search these and change in php.ini file reply afif says: sep 15, 2015 at 3:33 am hi. maybe you doesn’t upgrade for wp 4.3 theres no add new button. different with the wp before. or it’s cause of i use the wpmu? fyi: it’s wordpress.org not wordpress.com reply rotimi fafure says: sep 3, 2015 at 11:51 pm pls, i dont get to see the add new tab on my own dashboard pls. what am i doing wrong? not even the plugins tabs too. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 4, 2015 at 9:07 pm you may be using wordpress.com. please see our guide on the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs free wordpress.com blog. reply victoria martin says: aug 24, 2015 at 7:22 am i have just purchased a theme through mojo marketplace (coastal) but it won’t let me upload it and it’s saying – ‘the parent theme is missing. please install the “genesis” parent theme’ – do i need to spend more money buying this too? please help reply wpbeginner support says: aug 24, 2015 at 11:57 pm seems like you have bought a child theme for genesis framework. you will need to install genesis too. reply derek alba says: aug 12, 2015 at 8:12 pm thanks bro really helpfull reply alex says: aug 10, 2015 at 7:28 pm the infographic and guide article doesn’t tell me anything. where is the stupid “add new” button? reply muriithi alafia says: jun 8, 2015 at 7:31 pm thanks for the help installing the premium theme, i needed that! reply unhappy visitor says: apr 24, 2015 at 11:25 am same exact problem as above visitors allison taylor and felix…. there is no “add new” button on the wp dashboard screen at all! can we get some help on that, please?? reply happier visitor now! says: apr 24, 2015 at 11:40 am all my apologies for that! so newbie on wp installing platforms that i did not realize i had a .com dashboard instead of a .org dashboard… anyway, it seems that i had first to install the new wp 4.2 version, and after downloading the pack in my computer, there was no zip file to open and install anything… so, my problem remains… i cannot even believe when reading from wp: “the famous and easy 5 min installation”. it is more like 5 hours to me. reply felix says: dec 24, 2014 at 5:12 pm same problem as allison taylor……i don’t have the “add new” button. is that something wordpress now omits? could someone give me the answers i need……really would appreciate reply wpbeginner staff says: dec 24, 2014 at 7:24 pm please see our guide on the difference between wordpress.com vs wordpress.org. reply val rocha says: jun 27, 2016 at 6:40 pm hi, i do have installed wordpress.org to my domain… still i don’t have the “add new” button… what am i doing wrong? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 29, 2016 at 6:53 am it is possible that your domain may still be pointing to wordpress.com. you need to point it to your new web host. jacqui smith says: dec 7, 2014 at 5:13 pm can anyone tell me why i keep getting download failed messages every time i attempt to install a theme from the themes directory? i also get error message when i try to update the plugins. thank you in advance. reply « 1 2 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.