0 letter to a stranger behind the feature essays about donate jobs back letter to a stranger images of america back no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say back letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives letter to a stranger letter to a stranger images of america behind the feature essays no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say about letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives donatejobs the detour is the story 0 behind the feature what didn't fit in the front-page article? what was it like to be there, to be them? from the journalists themselves, here are the stories behind our favorite stories. featured off assignment behind the briefings: elaina plott off assignment off assignment los angeles, california shawna kenney offscreen los angeles, california shawna kenney this was the backstage, the green room, the wizard’s booth behind the curtain. los angeles, california shawna kenney lagos, nigeria oluwatosin adeshokan all along the waterfront lagos, nigeria oluwatosin adeshokan you see, lagos always had a goal—to become a megacity, a world class city, a modern metropolis that nigerians could feel proud to call home. but this dream comes at a cost. lagos, nigeria oluwatosin adeshokan wadi rum, jordan sunny fitzgerald whispers from wadi rum wadi rum, jordan sunny fitzgerald the lunar-like landscape of wadi rum stretches out before me—at once, alluring and overwhelming in its enormity. i am an insignificant speck, not unlike the grains of sand beneath my bare feet. wadi rum, jordan sunny fitzgerald washington, dc off assignment behind the briefings: janet rodriguez washington, dc off assignment “i come with a background where i'm not a shocked or as naive about why the president is doing any of this and the impact that it has and how it resonates with his base, and why he presses on the caravan issue for example. it just doesn't surprise me that he's using what's happening at the border for his own political advantage. it works because we've seen it work time and time again in arizona.” washington, dc off assignment riga, latvia svetlana kitto what the most sordid russian gay bar in riga taught me about identity politics riga, latvia svetlana kitto latvia’s first lgbt pride march in 2006 had been violently attacked by a mob armed with human feces and holy water, placing the country on amnesty international’s human rights watch list. riga, latvia svetlana kitto kings country, california maggie milstein about the first time i met charles manson kings country, california maggie milstein he still had an enviable crop of hair and beard, now gray and relatively kempt, and though his skin was doughy and shadow-less his eyes were as soft and expressive as a pig's. as he sat at a visitation table in clean blue chambray, he looked less like america's most dangerous criminal and more like the original maytag man, waiting fist-to-cheek. kings country, california maggie milstein tai pei, taiwan yi-ling liu recycling in paradise tai pei, taiwan yi-ling liu there was an entire system in place that revolved around disposal. it was an act of letting go that was deliberate and methodical, an active and almost festive act of losing, antithetical to how i functioned as a person. tai pei, taiwan yi-ling liu standing rock, north dakota kalen goodluck the fog of brigadoon standing rock, north dakota kalen goodluck with such a tenuous relationship to our stories, how can the media demand our trust? how can they demand to tell our stories? standing rock, north dakota kalen goodluck strasbourg, france aaron gordon while the world was watching soccer strasbourg, france aaron gordon i was sure that if i threw myself at the sports world when it was at its best i would hit something worthwhile. strasbourg, france aaron gordon berlin, germany emily cataneo the berliner who evaded arrest berlin, germany emily cataneo irmela mensah-schramm started removing hate graffiti one day in 1986. as of 2016, she had removed or altered more than 70,000 stickers or pieces of graffiti. berlin, germany emily cataneo vietnam roland kelts hie in ho chi minh vietnam roland kelts when he got back to vietnam he knew they’d lose the war because none of the us soldiers wanted to be there. they smoked marijuana in their barracks at night, he said, listened to rock music and read letters from home, sobbing aloud. vietnam roland kelts moab, utah rebecca worby the moon and the rock shop girls moab, utah rebecca worby we laid on a slab of sandstone and watched the moon and listened to the water trickle over red rock glazed moonlight-blue. moab, utah rebecca worby lesbos island off assignment behind the photos: bearing witness to the arrival of syrian refugees lesbos island off assignment from 2011 to 2016 fabio bucciarelli photographed the plight of refugees fleeing the uprisings of the "arab spring." during that time, he began work on his long-term project, "the dream." lesbos island off assignment santo domingo jorge arangure goodbye dominican republic, goodbye baseball santo domingo jorge arangure we had seen fire, and we had seen rain. we had seen some of the worst desperation the country had to offer, but also the friendliness and kindness that marks so many encounters in the dominican. santo domingo jorge arangure washington, dc off assignment behind the briefings: peter baker washington, dc off assignment the way this presidency moves, it’s sort of like a pinball machine, bouncing from issue to issue with amazing velocity. you sometimes find yourself on the same day writing about north korea, nuclear weapons on the one hand, and the opioid crisis on the other, and some sort of big personnel shuffle at the same time. washington, dc off assignment washington, dc off assignment behind the briefings: tara palmeri washington, dc off assignment there were times when [sean spicer] would call me and yell at me. now in hindsight, i learned from that experience that i should never let anyone scream at me off the record. that shouldn’t be allowed. washington, dc off assignment washington, dc off assignment behind the briefings: april ryan washington, dc off assignment i’ve been doing this for 20 years, and i’ll be doing it for the next 20 years....this is a historic moment, whether you like it or not. it’s good to be able to say that you’re one of the questioners of an american president... washington, dc off assignment washington, dc off assignment behind the briefings: ashley parker washington, dc off assignment i apparently have an endless capacity to be obsessed with subjects. i’m obsessed with trump right now. from just what he was trying to express when he took to twitter shortly after midnight one night and wrote “covfefe”...[to] how he’s making decisions on how to handle the crisis in north korea, i find my beat fascinating. washington, dc off assignment northern mongolia off assignment behind the photos: northern mongolia mining camps northern mongolia off assignment and so, after having flown for a day, driven for three days, we now rode reindeer for three days in the dead of winter over moonscapes, and arrived in this place which was some hybrid of mordor and lord of the flies. reindeer bounded right up to us, like we’d just arrived at santa’s workshop. northern mongolia off assignment off assignment on keeping a sketchbook off assignment ...it’s just my way of chiseling the foreignness away, getting to the heart of what was so alien when i sat down and opened my sketchbook. off assignment pico iyer into the gray pico iyer "every trip we take unfolds a myriad stories all at once, and after we get back home, we tell only a few of them, even to ourselves." pico iyer rené clement behind the guantánamo photos rené clement "to secure a spot on the gitmo press tour where he met ted conover, rené clement had to sign a 13-page contract of conduct. "most of it," the dutch photojournalist says, "was about what you cannot photograph." rené clement ted conover my guantánamo, and theirs ted conover "i didn’t get to see camp x-ray on my first trip to guantánamo—in 2003, for the new york times magazine. the original detention facility for prisoners of the war on terror, it was used for only a few months, until something larger and sturdier was ready. but on my second visit, in 2014 for vanity fair, the military placed the abandoned prison on the itinerary for the morning of my third and final day. ted conover read more in the studio straight from the recording booth: ted conover's commentary on the sights, sounds, and smells of guantánamo. go "off assignment" each week, a real letter in your inbox. email address write me thank you! © off assignment / offassignment@gmail.com