0 letter to a stranger behind the feature essays about donate jobs back letter to a stranger images of america back no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say back letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives letter to a stranger letter to a stranger images of america behind the feature essays no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say about letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives donatejobs the detour is the story 0 behind the photos, behind the featureoff assignmentmarch 08, 2018lesbos islandarchives 3 behind the photos: bearing witness to the arrival of syrian refugees behind the photos, behind the featureoff assignmentmarch 08, 2018lesbos islandarchives 3 behind the photos: bearing witness to the arrival of syrian refugees fabio bucciarelli's coverage of the syrian war was awarded a robert capa gold medal in 2013. he has also been honored with a world press photo award, the prix bayeux-calvados, the picture of the year international award, the best of photojournalism and the sony international photography award, among other prizes. from 2011 to 2016 fabio bucciarelli photographed the plight of refugees fleeing the uprisings of the arab spring. during that time, he began work on his long-term project, "the dream," a blend of photojournalism and art photography that plays witness to the largest mass exodus of refugees since the second world war. his goals: put faces to the numbers, restore dignity to refugees, connect the viewer to the emotions of those who were often portrayed indifferently. the "dream" for the protagonists is to start a new life, find a job, care for their family. these dreams sustained the refugees he met, who hailed from all walks of life from workers to educated professionals, poor to middle class. bucciarelli's photos are shot using digital, analogue, and pinhole cameras. his journey took him to syria, turkey, iraq, egypt, serbia, macedonia and to the small greek island of lesbos, where many of the photos that follow were taken as boatloads of refugees arrived along those shores. “the clouds me-thought would open and show riches. ready to drop upon me, that when i waked. i cried to dream again.” — shakespeare's the tempest kiz kalesi, turkey a syrian woman in kiz kalesi near mersin, turkey, looks at the sea waiting to board an illegal ship for europe. as the syrian civil war continues with no end in sight, thousands of syrian refugees have reached the turkish coasts around mersin, turning to human smuggling operations as a way to reach europe. one of the smugglers operating out of the port of mersin, when interviewed in 2015, reported that $6,000 (usd) are required, per person, to get illegal passage to europe on board of old freighters. skala sykaminias, greece a syrian family weeps tears of joy after reaching, on a rubber boat from turkey, the village of skala sykaminias located on the northeastern greek island of lesbos. thousands of refugees, mostly coming from syria, iraq and afghanistan, have crossed the aegean sea from turkey to reach europe: a relatively short but extremely perilous journey. according to the un refugee agency, more than 850,000 arrivals by sea were registered in greece in 2015. lesbos beach, greece a syrian refugee woman faints on lesbos beach after crossing the aegean sea from turkey. for many thousands of refugees and migrants heading to europe from the middle east, the long route to a new life lies through greece and the western balkans with the ultimate destination in germany and other northern eu countries. idomeni, greece syrian refugees waiting to cross an illegal border between greece and macedonia near idomeni, greece. skala sykaminias, greece a syrian refugee thanks god after reaching the village of skala sykaminias, located on the northeastern greek island of lesbos. lesbos beach, greece refugees and migrants reaching the tiny greek island of lesbos after crossing the aegean sea from turkey. most of the arrivals are from syria, with large contingents from afghanistan, iraq, eritrea and north african nations. augusta, italy syrian refugee children play in the reception tent at the dock of the sicilian port of augusta, italy after having been registered by the italian authorities. they left from mersin, turkey and spent five days at sea without food or water before being rescued by the belgian navy. the number of refugees and migrants taking the dangerous journey across the mediterranean to europe, fleeing war, hunger, and persecution, is only increasing. let's keep in touch every week, we'll send you a letter with the latest from oa. email address write me thank you! about the photographer fabio bucciarelli is an award-winning photographer focused on conflicts and the humanitarian consequences of war. since 2011, he has been documenting the refugee crisis in libya, egypt, tunisia, syria, iraq, turkey, italy, france, greece, macedonia and serbia. "the dream" project book is available here. featured letters to the man named "praise god" letters “against the noise, dust, and midday sun, i struggled to frame a shot of kruger that looked much like anything. with elbows pinned to my sides, back slumped, i felt self-conscious and a little abashed. why was i taking this picture? was it historical documentation or vapid cultural voyeurism?” letters letters to the shopkeeper in fez letters “but i mostly remembered your shop because my husband had spent twenty minutes inside it while i’d browsed nearby. he’d emerged looking sheepish. “i need to find an atm,” he said. “i might have made some rash decisions.” letters letters to the man i made into a stranger letters “you were a little shorter, a little taller, a little fatter, a little thinner. always with the same dark, thick, wavy hair, same pale skin. i’d see you in a flash but then the eyes were never right. never as pretty. never as kind.” letters letters to the nun who locked eyes with me letters it was the 70's, and we were part of a large wave of hungry young drifters from all over the world, jews and non-jews, who’d found our way to israel in search of meaning, love, and home letters letters to the host mother of the do-gooders letters my good intentions could not stock your pantry. letters letters to the fenix who commanded authority letters on that street corner in miraflores you projected an authority i doubt i will ever possess, which is problematic for me because i teach high school english. letters letters to the woman looking for the hospital letters you walked, shook your head, the frenzy of seoul swallowing you in its dizzying tapestry. letters letters to the dancer who touched my back letters it's dark, very dark, just as he said it would be. soft, rhythmic music pulses, and soon i begin to feel you crawling across my feet. letters letters to the driver of the bus we hoped would get us to our salseros letters latin dancing enlivened me unlike nothing ever had. letters letters to the guy who gave me pirate booty in honduras letters i’ll admit i barely noticed the scar on your shaved head. too distracted by your stories, or perhaps by the crush i was developing. letters off assignment facebook0 twitter linkedin0 the moon and the rock shop girls behind the featurerebecca worbymarch 15, 2018moab, utaharchives 3 about joy press's hollywood what i didn't sayoff assignmentmarch 01, 2018los angelesarchives 3 © off assignment / offassignment@gmail.com