the home of online investigations you can support the work of bellingcat by donating through the following link: search for: home africa americas mena rest of world uk & europe articles case studies events guides podcasts enenglish русский search for: contributors contact about home news: march 25, 2020 by bellingcat investigation team africa americas mena coronavirus covid19 disinformation the coronavirus disinformation system: how it works besides viruses, what else is terribly contagious? lies, of course. as the coronavirus pandemic engulfs the world, disinformation associated with the virus has taken on many forms. whether it’s your uncle sending you a tom hanks meme at 4 a.m. or the current occupant of the white house lying about barack obama supposedly harming the… read full post 14 march 19, 2020 by robert evans rest of world coronavirus how coronavirus scammers hide on facebook and youtube on march 16th, 2020, virtually every major social media company released a joint statement on their efforts to curb the spread of disinformation about the coronavirus pandemic. as of the writing of this article, the top comment on facebook’s twitter post of this statement is, itself, a piece of disinformation, furthering the conspiracy theory that… read full post 14 march 18, 2020 by michael colborne rest of world uk & europe christchurch far-right ukraine revealed: the ukrainian man who runs a neo-nazi terrorist telegram channel even by the low standards of telegram, an online messaging service that is sometimes described as “a safe haven for pro-terror nazis”, the ukrainian-language telegram channel devoted to praising the christchurch shooter is an ugly spectacle. the channel, which we will not name as to not promote it, is full of vicious racism, anti-semitism, islamophobia… read full post 13 march 13, 2020 by charlotte godart and chantal verkroost uk & europe covid19 disinformation netherlands monitoring and debunking covid-19 panic: the “haarlem aldi” hoax panicked responses to covid-19 have triggered strange, yet predictable behavior from people all around the world as they attempt to protect themselves and their families. some of the most common images and videos circulating on the internet show emptied grocery stores, huge lines at checkout counters, and by now the all-too-familiar disappearing toilet paper. in… read full post 37 march 10, 2020 by bellingcat investigation team uk & europe mh17 russia ukraine a post mortem of russia’s claim that crucial mh17 video evidence was falsified during day two of the mh17 criminal court proceedings in the netherlands, the prosecution team disclosed that the russian federation had challenged the authenticity of a video recording of the buk telar, made on 17 july 2014, near the presumed launch site at snizhne. this video is a crucial piece in the chain of evidence… read full post 37 march 9, 2020 by eliot higgins uk & europe mh17 russia the impossible conspiracy fueling russia’s mh17 defence ahead of the commencement of the mh17 trials in the netherlands on march 9, 2020, various russian government officials have made statements defending russia against accusations that russia provided the buk missile launcher that shot down mh17 on july 17, 2014. russian ministry of foreign affairs spokesperson maria zakharova complained of “planted news citing some… read full post 56 march 5, 2020 by bellingcat investigation team americas mena russia syria turkey syria shootout demonstrates precarious environment for u.s. forces a single checkpoint in northeastern syria recently became a flashpoint — and in our latest bellingcat collaboration with newsy, we show you how. u.s. troops have patrolled the turkish-syria border since 2017. this is a means of trying to keep tensions at bay between numerous local factions. this has particularly concerned turkey — which is,… read full post 13 march 4, 2020 by nick waters uk & europe cs erdogan greece greek security services may be using potentially lethal tear gas munitions images and videos from social media suggest that greek security services may be using a similar kind of tear gas round that has resulted in the serious injury or death of scores of protesters in iraq. images and videos posted by journalists, activists and turkish politicians show expended munitions in the vicinity of protests by… read full post 14 february 25, 2020 by bellingcat investigation team uk & europe bulgaria gru russia an officer and a diplomat: the strange case of the gru spy with a red notice in its original series of investigations in 2018, bellingcat identified three gru officers: maj. gen. denis sergeev, col. anatoliy chepiga and col. alexander mishkin, m.d., linked to the march 2018 novichok poisonings in salisbury. in several follow-up reports, bellingcat and its investigative partner the insider disclosed the existence of a clandestine gru team earmarked and… read full post 26 february 17, 2020 by bellingcat investigation team uk & europe fsb khangoshvili russia “v” for “vympel”: fsb’s secretive department “v” behind assassination of georgian asylum seeker in germany in our previous investigation of the murder of zelimkhan khangoshvili on august 23, 2019 in berlin, we identified the suspected assassin — who traveled under the fake identity of vadim sokolov, 49 — as vadim krasikov, 54. we disclosed that krasikov had a prior criminal history that involved at least two contract killings, once in… read full post 46 more news posts resources: march 27, 2020 by natalia antonova guides coronavirus covid19 disinformation investigating coronavirus fakes and disinfo? here are some tools for you there is no dignified way of putting it — the world has gone bananas as the covid-19 pandemic rages. when the threat of deadly infection is mixed with the peculiar rush of going viral, people are bound to spread fakes. even those of us who mean well. many bellingcat team members are impacted by this… read full post 0 february 24, 2020 by bellingcat investigation team events training workshops new bellingcat workshops announced for may – september 2020 bellingcat will hold a series of workshops in spring 2020, including: geneva: may 4 – 8 washington dc: june 22 – 26 amsterdam: june 22 – 26 berkeley, california july 6 – 10 london: july 6 – 10 paris: august 3 – 7 london: september 7 – 11 please email us at workshops@bellingcat.com with the information… read full post 7 january 14, 2020 by bellingcat investigation team bellingcat is hiring: editor (europe-based, part-time) – applications closed who we are: bellingcat is an independent international collective of researchers, investigators, and citizen journalists using open source and social media investigations to probe a variety of subjects: crime, conflicts, corruption, secret operations, mis- and disinformation, extremist groups, and much more. we have received multiple awards for our groundbreaking research and publications that shine a… read full post 5 january 8, 2020 by bellingcat investigation team events training workshops new bellingcat workshops announced for february – april 2020 bellingcat will hold a series of workshops in spring 2020, including: amsterdam: february 17 – 21 (full, wait-list available) london: march 2 – 6 (full, wait-list available) new york city: march 2 – 6 (full, wait-list available) berlin: march 30 – april 3 (full, wait-list available) toronto: april 27 – may 1 please email us… read full post 0 december 26, 2019 by aric toler guides guide to using reverse image search for investigations reverse image search is one of the most well-known and easiest digital investigative techniques, with two-click functionality of choosing “search google for image” in many web browsers. this method has also seen widespread use in popular culture, perhaps most notably in the mtv show catfish, which exposes people in online relationships who use stolen photographs… read full post 24 november 6, 2019 by bellingcat investigation team guides massive white supremacist message board leak: how to access and interpret the data update: the internet archive has removed the sql leak; however, the information is freely available via a torrent file (download here) or a magnet link (click here, or copy/paste the link into a torrent client). today, the entire sql database from iron march, a now-defunct neo-nazi / white supremacist message board, was posted onto the… read full post 47 october 31, 2019 by bellingcat investigation team events training workshops new bellingcat workshop announced for washington d.c. bellingcat will hold a new workshop in washington d.c. on december 9-13. our planned workshops for the remainder of 2019 are as follows: london: december 9-13 (full, with lengthy wait-list) washington d.c.: december 9-13 (full, with short wait-list) please email us at workshops@bellingcat.com with the information requested below if you would like to attend. name… read full post 1 october 22, 2019 by brenna smith events cryptocurrency sign up for cryptosint today! issue #2: “what does libra mean for open source investigators?” cryptosint is a news round-up dedicated to covering who is using blockchain technology and how they’re doing it. think of it as the intersection between open source investigations and the crypto world. through cryptosint, you will discover weekly content that will help you make sense… read full post 2 october 15, 2019 by giancarlo fiorella guides flight tracking a beginner’s guide to flight tracking flight tracking is an accessible and useful tool for open source investigators. being able to track the movements of aircraft belonging to powerful individuals and armed forces can add important details to stories, or even uncover entire new narratives. there are several commercial and hobby websites that allow us to do just that. the purpose… read full post 19 september 5, 2019 by bellingcat investigation team events training workshop new bellingcat workshop announced for london bellingcat will hold a series of workshops this autumn and winter, including a new workshop in london (december) and two open spaces at a workshop in washington d.c. in two weeks. if you are interested in being added to the london (october) or copenhagen waitlists, please let us know. copenhagen: october 28 – november 1 (full,… read full post 1 more resources posts join the bellingcat mailing list: subscribe to our email list to receive a weekly selection of stories published by bellingcat during the previous week, along with links to our favorite examples of open source research around the web. along with our published content, we will update our readers on events that our staff and contributors are involved with, such as noteworthy interviews and training workshops. contributors contact about home you can support the work of bellingcat by donating through the following link: © 2020 bellingcat. office 6th, 3rd floor, 37 new walk, leicester, le1 6ta company no: 9858798