sections search skip to contentskip to site index log in log in today’s paper advertisementcontinue reading the main story ben smith ben smith is the media columnist. he joined the new york times in 2020 after eight years as founding editor in chief of buzzfeed news. before that, he covered politics for politico, the new york daily news, the new york observer and the new york sun. email: ben.smith@nytimes.com advertisementcontinue reading the main story latest search search clear this text input the media equation as fox news played down the coronavirus, its chief protected himself the cancellation of an 89th birthday party for rupert murdoch highlights a disconnect between his family’s behavior and statements made on air by some fox commentators. by ben smith the media equation rupert murdoch put his son in charge of fox. it was a dangerous mistake. the 48-year-old lachlan murdoch stood by as fox news hosts played down the danger of the deadly coronavirus to their viewers. by ben smith the media equation andrew cuomo is the control freak we need right now in ordinary times, mr. cuomo’s relentlessness and bullying drive new yorkers crazy. in the age of the coronavirus, they soothe our battered nerves. by ben smith the media equation when facebook is more trustworthy than the president social media companies are delivering reliable information in the coronavirus crisis. why can’t they do that all the time? by ben smith the media equation what bernie sanders gets right about the media the senator’s sweeping critique of coverage has more merit than we in the media like to admit. by ben smith the media equation why the success of the new york times may be bad news for journalism in his debut, our new media columnist says the times has become like facebook or google — a digital behemoth crowding out the competition. by ben smith op-ed contributor i’m proud we published the trump-russia dossier the president called the steele report “fake news.” a year later, it’s clear that’s not the case. by ben smith op-ed contributor why buzzfeed news published the dossier trust, in this new media ecology, means trusting the readers’ judgment. by ben smith hackensack aide, under fire, retires the city manager here, joseph j. squillace, who retired yesterday, can receive $185,000 with his final paycheck on friday if the city council declines to suspend the payment. angry taxpayers have repeatedly demanded the suspension. mr. squillace is the beneficiary of a personnel policy that lets retiring city employees redeem unused sick leave for cash. in mr. squillace's case, he can also redeem his vacation time. by ben smith 3d benefits award disputed a personnel policy that will enable the retiring city manager here to collect $246,000 for unused sick leave and vacation time has infuriated taxpayers and led to an investigation of the legality of the payments. joseph j. squillace, who will retire saturday after 40 years in city government, is to collect pay for 600 unused sick days and vacation days based on his final salary of more than $106,000 a year. in addition, mr. squillace will receive a $74,000 pension, the highest ever received by a new jersey state or municipal official, according to the state's division of pensions. ''it's outrageous,'' said harold mrotzek, a resident of willow avenue, who threatened to bring a class-action suit against the city last month. by ben smith 3d show more advertisementcontinue reading the main story follow elsewhere benyttwitter page for benyt feedback? questions? include your name, the article headline, and your message. email author site index site information navigation © 2020 the new york times company nytco contact us work with us advertise t brand studio your ad choices privacy terms of service terms of sale site map help subscriptions