we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk techconsumer techdna kits like follow which dna test kit should you get? are you distantly related to beyoncé? you should probably find out. share tweet share share best for literally everyone 23andme health screenings plus a recent addition of over 1,000 regions makes it the most all-encompassing test out there. $99 from amazon best for connecting with relatives ancestrydna get a seamless process from start to finish with a massive genealogical pool and the ability to connect with found relatives. $99 from amazon best for health tellmegen take charge of your health with this detailed test that analyzes medical predispositions and inherited risks. (but don't stop going to the doctor.) $119 from amazon editors independently select all products and services featured here. if you buy something through our links, we may receive a commission. by leah stodart2020-02-14 20:21:55 utc dna test kits like ancestrydna and 23andme have become increasingly popular over the past few years — some 26 million people have taken them — and were a big gift item during the holiday season. the possibilities are quite literally endless — from finding your birth mother after 47 years to discovering that you're related to a president. though dna tests are being added to more and more people's bucket lists, the sheer number of kits you can choose from is overwhelming. the result? a lot of interested folks opt out simply because they're not sure which kit to buy. (even dna tests for your dog exist. yeah.) and that sucks, because finding out the who, what, and where that made you into the person you are is way too awesome to pass up. we did some digging to bring you the ultimate dna test comparison guide. we've looked at seven of the most popular dna test kits out there: ancestrydna, 23andme, myheritage, tellmegen, living dna, family tree dna, national geographic geno 2.0, and africanancestry to give you the rundown on the differences between each kit so you can decide which one is the best for you. before we get into the nitty-gritty of each kit, it's important to understand the fancy terms that will be mentioned frequently so you can get a handle on how dna testing kits work. how does dna testing work? autosomal testing is the most basic and most popular means of genetic testing, commonly known as the family finder. autosomal dna tests look at 22 pairs of chromosomes not involved in determining a person's sex. it is used for cousin and distant relative matching as well as mixture percentages, or your ethnic mix (as shown in those fancy pie charts from the commercials), plus common genetic traits, like heritable diseases and eye color. each kit evaluated below does autosomal testing — with the exception of nat geo's, which we'll explain later. mtdna (mitochondrial dna) testing traces your mother's lineage. these are the dna strands passed down from mother to child. there's very little chance that these could be altered, so your direct maternal line can be traced back quite far. y-dna testing focuses on the y chromosome, which you probably recognize as the "male" chromosome, and can guess that this test traces your father's lineage. these are the dna strands passed down from father to son, so your paternal line can be traced. however, it is important to note that only males can use a y-dna test directly. most times, women can connect their dna profile with a father, brother, or other male relative to get these results. note: while autosomal testing shows who your relatives are, remember that this is a mix of both sides — and does not necessarily show you which side of the family they came from. another thing to note is that mtdna and y-dna tests can trace back anywhere from 20-100 generations, while autosomal tests can only trace back to 5-8 generations. image: pixabay health screenings and traits are the next iteration of dna tests that are soon to become the norm. these use your genetic markers to discover what illnesses or diseases you may be at risk of inheriting, as well as how your risks compare to other people of your age, race, and gender. traits like hair and eye color, lactose intolerance, or obesity are also analyzed, diving into the genes that make you unique or if you're likely to pass a gene to your children. so, what is the best dna testing kit? we're so glad you asked. keep reading to learn more about our picks below. use the small grey arrow button to expand each card. (shopping for a black friday, cyber monday, or prime day sale? peep our list of deals at the top of this page.) best for literally everyone image: the good only test to deeply cover health and ethnicity • tests the highest number of regions of all kits • fastest turn around time the bad reports of unresponsive customer service • limited resources to connect with relatives the bottom line a best-seller for a reason, 23andme covers all of your bases in detail from health, to traits, to ethnic breakdowns. 1. 23andme health screenings plus a recent addition of over 1,000 regions makes it the most all-encompassing test out there. price: $99-$199 tests: autosomal, mtdna, y-dna, health, traits wait time: 2-4 weeks $99 from amazon called 23andme as a nod to each person's unique set of 23 chromosomes, 23andme is the only kit in this lineup to offer the big four: health screenings and autosomal, maternal, and paternal testing. fill the tube with your spit, send it back for testing, and get your results in 2-4 weeks. results are kept indefinitely, so you can log on at any time to see or update your family tree. the good: one super unique thing about 23andme is that it does health and wellness screenings — it's even fda cleared. 23andme's health tests can give valuable information about genetic illnesses, health risks, carrier status on health conditions, or traits that may run in your family. this can provide you with an important heads up about any checkups you may want to schedule, but obviously can't give a guaranteed view of your future health. traits like sleep movement, celiac disease, and lactose intolerance are also analyzed. in january 2019, 23andme's region count was upped to over 1,000 populations (with major increases in african and east asian populations) — causing it to surpass ancestrydna as the most robust test, which is no small feat. this amazing new testing pool gives each customer a more detailed ancestry detail reports, where you can find maps and more refined breakdowns. the downside: there isn't much bad to say here, but a main theme among negative reviews seems to be janky customer service. it's fine more often than not, but customers need to trust that they'll get answers if their test is too generalized or not back on time. 23andme references datasets from about 300,000 people, which isn't nearly as robust as ancestrydna when it comes to building the family tree and being able to connect with found relatives — it's more of a "where" than a "who" here. the price: 23andme is possibly the easiest to find, sold at retailers like target as well as amazon and 23andme.com. each place offers the same price: $79 for the ancestry service and $199 for the health+ancestry service. 23andme's official website and amazon offer sales frequently, while the other retailers offer coupons. best for connecting with relatives image: ancestry the good largest dna database • great for adopted individuals finding biological family the bad no separate maternal/paternal test • small east asian genealogical pool • many features require a subscription the bottom line with what's said to be the largest gene database, ancestrydna offers user-friendly family tree breakdowns and easy ways to connect with relatives. 2. ancestrydna get a seamless process from start to finish with a massive genealogical pool and the ability to connect with found relatives. price: $99-$119 tests: autosomal, traits wait time: 6-8 weeks $99 from amazon possibly the most well-known dna service (and for good reason) most people use ancestrydna to get that coveted pie chart and to uncover distant relatives hiding in their family tree. (remember the woman who discovered she's related to george washington?) just fill the tube with your spit, send it back for testing, and you'll receive results in 6-8 weeks. the good: ancestrydna pulls results from a very large genealogical pool ( around 5 million dna sets) and from some 700,000 locations in over 350 ethnic regions ( thanks to migration data) around the world ( 26 of which come directly from the reference panel). the regions ancestrydna pulls from trails decently far behind 23andme, but they make up for it with the dna collection they have. traits like eye color and earlobe shape are also being tapped into: as of november 2018, ancestrydna offers a slightly more expensive kit that gives information on 18 inherited traits and attributes that can tell you why one kid has red hair and one doesn't — or who gave you that gene that makes you hate cilantro. dna matches can be linked online to create your family tree, and if a family match is also signed up on ancestry.com, you have the option to reach out and connect. results also never go away and can be viewed indefinitely, as long as you keep up your subscription. options to contact database matches are great (surpassing 15 million network members as of may 2019,, making this one of the best tests for adopted individuals to connect with biological relatives. the downside: it does not offer separate mtdna or y-dna tests, so if you're looking for direct tracing of your mother or father's direct line or results more specific to your maternal or paternal side, ancestrydna may not be able to give those details. also, people of east asian descent may find ancestrydna frustrating because they haven't sample enough people yet to provide specific enough data for that part of the world. ancestry.com also requires a subscription for many features, unlike, say, 23andme, which does not. (you will still get your dna results without a subscription, though.) the price: a best seller on amazon, the ancestrydna kits normally go for $99 but are frequently on sale both on amazon and ancestry.com. best for health image: tellmegen the good extremely thorough report on medical predispositions • medical and nutrition counseling • free automatic updates forever • focus on transparency the bad small number of ethnicity regions • no connecting with relatives the bottom line hypochondriacs will appreciate this deep dive into risks, inherited traits, and medication effects. 3. tellmegen take charge of your health with this detailed test that analyzes medical predispositions and inherited risks. (but don't stop going to the doctor.) price: $199 tests: autosomal, health, traits wait time: 4-6 weeks $119 from amazon alternate headline: the best test for hypochondriacs. worrying about a mystery condition can be debilitating, and any warnings you can get offer such peace of mind. no dna test's health screenings can diagnose everything or replace real doctor visits, but tellmegen's deep dive into risks and inherited traits can provide crucial insight for anyone wanting to be proactive about wellness. just fill the tube with your spit, send it back for testing, and receive your results in four to six weeks. the good: no other test pulls apart your medical history, identifies traits, or predicts possible future complications quite as precisely as tellmegen. your dna is compared to over 550,000 markers to see how you fare against 125 different illnesses, as well as pinpoint any monogenic illnesses inherited through family members. results are extremely thorough, organized into a four-part health map: complex diseases broken down by symptoms and your risk factor compared to the average person of your race, age, and gender inherited conditions like diabetes or high blood pressure pharmacological compatibility, or how your body handles certain medication traits like hair color, baldness, or lactose intolerance transparency is clearly a priority: the site gives exact names of the technology used, provides lab certificates, and explains the encryption process for those worried about privacy. aside from mentions of lack of ancestry breakdowns (which tellmegen's site is totally honest about), the kit hails stellar amazon reviews and countless mentions of accurate results. if and when mtdna, y-dna, and neanderthal testing are added like tellmegen's ancestry tab says, 23andme better look out. the bad: though it's technically also an ancestry test, the gene pool used to yield ethnicity breakdowns has a lot of growing to do. less than 3,000 people make up the ethnic database so far, and regions in the middle east and asia are particularly limited. obviously, trying to connect with relatives will be a bust. you will get a few percentages for your ethnic pie chart, but that's about it. however, tellmegen deserves major kudos for being up front about this: they point out which groups aren't represented in an effort to save you time and money, and won't try to convince you that the test is something it's not. the price: the all-encompassing kit is unsurprisingly pricey at $199, but is frequently on sale at amazon for as low as $139. budget pick image: myheritage the good cheapest dna kit • fastest results behind 23andme • yearly subscription tiers for more interaction with your results the bad small number of regions tested • no separate maternal/paternal tracing • limited resources for connecting with relatives the bottom line if you're just interested in the pie chart and don't care about contacting relatives, myheritage is a great option that won't break the bank. 4. myheritage if you don't care about contacting relatives or maternal/paternal tracing, myheritage offers the coveted pie chart and quick results for cheap. price: $75 tests: autosomal wait time: 3-4 weeks $79 from amazon if you're balling on a budget and are only looking for the autosomal testing, myheritage could be the dna test for you. first timers may also find this kit the most appealing as it is the most user-friendly. swab the inside of your cheek with the provided tool, send it back for testing, and have your results in 3-4 weeks. results are kept for 25 years. the good: myheritage is said to be the fastest and cheapest test, usually sending results back to participants in 3-4 weeks and not requiring a monthly-paid subscription to access results. myheritage also pulls from 42 graphic regions, which is pretty impressive for what you're paying. dna can be linked online to create a family tree, and there is an option to upload raw data — so if you've gotten some sort of genealogy tests done before or have outside genetics information that you'd like to use, it can easily be included in results. the downside: though myheritage uses a good number of geographical regions, it has the smallest matching database size out of the kits compared here (aside from living dna, which doesn't have a database). it also does not offer separate mtdna or y-dna tests, so if you're looking to trace your mother or father's direct line or results more specific to your maternal or paternal side, myheritage may not be able to give those details. you may also have to pay extra to access certain parts of you report. the price: prices fluctuate and sales happen often, but myheritage can be purchased on amazon for $75 or myheritage.com for $59 to $79. creating an account and logging back in to see results is free. best for unique genealogy findings image: national geographic the good unique info on neanderthal connections • trusted brand • maternal and paternal line tracing the bad least extensive autosomal tests • long wait time the bottom line geno 2.0 gives you the opportunity to see how much you have in common with neanderthals — but we wouldn't expect anything less from nat geo. 5. national geographic geno 2.0 instead of the traditional family tree, nat geo's whole exome sequencing will tell you how much you have in common with a neanderthal. price: $99.99 tests: homonin ancestry, mtdna, y-dna wait time: 6-12 weeks see details or maybe you've already done a traditional dna test kit and are itching for some more nitty gritty information. the national geographic geno 2.0 kit is unique in that it uses next-generation sequencing (hence the name) instead of genotyping technology. the kit also tells you where your ancestors came from (with maternal and paternal lines separated), but won't go into as much detail as other kits. fill the tube with your spit, send it back for testing, and get your results in 6-12 weeks. the good: geno 2.0 users technology that no other kits use, meaning you're getting info that no other kits can offer you. while genotyping looks for specific parts of dna and pieces them together, next-generation sequencing is a speedier process that looks at the protein-encoding parts of your genome. whole exome sequencing picks up information that genotyping can't, making nat geo's kit able to give you your hominin ancestry — aka the percentage of dna that you have in common with a neanderthal. how cool is that? the bad: this kit puts its focus on neanderthal stuff and not so much on tiny details to fill your pie chart. if you've done a dna test before, you probably won't mind this as you'll already have those lineage percentages. however, if you're a first-timer and are really looking to see where you hail from, geno 2.0 may not be the most helpful. price: while the nat geo kit may not be quite as expansive as the others, you still get cool graphics with your results, as well as a custom video of your ancestry journey. geno 2.0 goes for $99.99 on national geographic's website and amazon, but is frequently on sale for as low as $59 (crazy). best bang for your buck image: living dna the good maternal and paternal tracing on the cheap • in-depth into the british isles • can upload outside info the bad long wait time • meh amazon reviews the bottom line livingdna is making serious strides toward a top spot by offering detailed family trees at a fraction of competing prices. 6. living dna coining itself as a 3-in-1 dna test, this is easily your cheapest option to trace both parents' lines as well as the family finder. price: $79 tests: autosomal, mtdna, y-dna wait time: 8-10 weeks $49 from livingdna if you're looking for the best bang for your buck and definitely want all three tests done, living dna is your best bet. another thing: if you know that most of your results will be in the uk or are most interested in the uk regions, living dna will be the kit for you as it goes very in-depth into the british isles. swab the inside of your cheek with the provided tool, send it back for testing, and have your results in 8-10 weeks. results are kept indefinitely, so you can log on at any time to see or update your family tree. the good: living dna offers mtdna and y-dna tests in the basic kit with no extra charge, 'nuff said — many other tests make you pay extra and that's if they even offer it to begin with. it pulls info from more than 80 geographical regions and 650,00 genetic markers going back 80,000 (!!!) years, making them able to provide pretty substantial detail when it comes to your pie chart —especially for the price. in february 2019, living dna closed a huge gap in the competition by (finally) adding a matching service to connect with found relatives. the free service is called family networks, and though it won't yet have the numbers that ancestrydna does, it's promising to at least have the option. the company is constantly conducting surveys, testing new features, and adding new regions, which you can find in the news section. the downside: with samples from more than 80 regions, livingdna's test coverage is pretty vast for the price — but it still won't be able to pinpoint origins as specifically as test with 300 or more (especially when it comes to coverage of native americans). essentially, it's clean cut way to get that maternal and paternal tracing without paying for frills. living dna also has some of the slowest turnaround times, though wait time recently decreased from 10-12 weeks to 8-10 weeks. the price: living dna is $99 (but sometimes on sale for $49) and available on amazon and the livingdna site. if you can catch a sale, that's an extremely fair price for all of the information you're getting. for $168 total, you can add a personalized ancestry book to your order. best for serious genealogy image: family tree dna the good most in-depth maternal and paternal results • many options to contact database matches • can upload outside info the bad all tests must be done separately • amazon reviews aren't great • online results need to be modernized the bottom line familytree dna is said to peel apart maternal and paternal lines better than other kits — but is it worth the price? 7. familytreedna prices are weirdly steep, but familytreedna offers detailed maternal and paternal line tracing you can't find anywhere else. price: $79.99-$199.99 tests: autosomal, mtdna, y-dna wait time: 6-8 weeks $79 from amazon said to have the most extensive tests of the bunch, familytreedna is great if you're looking for serious genealogy, as it's been said to be the only kit that can decipher whether a relative is from your mother or father's side of the family. swab the inside of your cheek with the provided tool, send it back for testing, and have your results in 6-8 weeks. results are kept for 25 years. the good: not only is there the option for mtdna and y-dna analysis, it is said to give the most in-depth maternal and paternal results compared to other kits. to justify paying for tests separately, familytreedna claims that its comparisons of 500 str (short tandem repeat) markers, or specific segments of dna that people share, and 150,000 of snp (single-nucleotide polymorphisms) make them able to find what ancestors a specific population has in common, as well as identify if a relative is from your mother or father's line. check out the extremely detailed breakdown of each haplotree and its regions here. options to contact database matches are great, making this one of the best tests for adopted individuals to connect with biological relatives — as long as you can deal with a website that looks like it's from 2002. the downside: though familytreedna does offer the mtdna and y-dna tests as well as autosomal, all three tests must be conducted separately. this means that you'll need three different swabs and three different payments, making this the most expensive kit if you want all three tests done. and, while most serious family finders would be down to pay extra for more detailed results, family tree dna's reviews on amazon are slightly worrisome and tell us that first-timers could definitely manage to opt for a cheaper kit. the price: prices start at $79.99 for the autosomal family finder on familytreedna.com or amazon. adding the y-dna test brings it up to $169, while adding the mtdna will be $199. i mean, at least you're not paying for anything you don't want. best focus on african heritage image: africanancestry the good highest samples of indigenous african ethnicities and dna out there • unique breakdown by tribe • excellent customer service the bad most expensive test by far • tests may be inconclusive due to small gene pool • site isn't very user-friendly the bottom line the only dna test to hone in on african tribes, africandna is slightly wonky but praised by a few celebrities. 8. africanancestry while not as advanced as other kits, africanancestry is the extensive reporting on african tribes that we've been waiting for. tests: autosomal, mtdna, y-dna price: $299 wait time: 6-8 weeks $299 from africanancestry the name of the test probably gives away its main selling point: africanancestry is the only test on the market that focuses specifically on african regions. maybe you've heard of it — considering it's gotten shoutouts from celebrities like oprah winfrey, erykah badu, and black panther's chadwick boseman. it's not the most robust test, but gets into the nitty gritty on the few areas it does cover. fill the tube with your spit, send it in, and get your results back in 6-8 weeks. the good: africanancestry takes the cake when it comes to deep-diving into african heritage — up to 2,000 years of it. the company tests over 200 african ethnicities and 33,000 indigenous dna samples from 40 african countries, offering the potential to trace back to individual tribes like fulani, tikar, or hasa. both men and women can trace their maternal roots and men can trace paternal as well. it's essentially a big celebration of african heritage, which has gotten it a lot of love from customers on social media singing praises about long-awaited details on ancestors' tribes. it's owned by black people for black people, which is a breath of fresh air in a world of dna tests that can mostly lean eurocentric. the downside: for starters, you'll be shelling out $300 for a single test. that's a hefty price to ask for using a sample pool this sparse, as it gives a lot of leeway for results to be inconclusive and requiring a do-over. some reviews mention that their results were extremely generalized, but like any dna test, satisfaction is on a person by person basis. the site does let you know that accuracy plateaus at 85%, and though 33,000 dna samples isn't huge, it's much better than what competitors can offer. the price: yikes. there's a matriclan test for everyone and a patriclan test just for men both going for $299, and a family celebration kit that includes two kits, a few gifts, and the option to analyze a deceased person's dna for $680. for now, it's only available on africanancestry's official site. best dog dna tests yep, that's a thing. just like humans use dna tests to piece together their family tree, get an ethnicity breakdown, or learn about medical predispositions, doggie dna tests can present info about your dog's family history, breed mix, and risk of disease in the future. they're an especially handy tool for pup parents of rescues and super-mixed mutts. our top pick for dogs image: embark the good outstanding customer service • stellar amazon reviews • tons of genetic markers • included health and disease test the bad priciest of the bunch • longest possible wait time the bottom line with acutely detailed health screenings and maternal and paternal tracing, this test is just as in depth as tests for humans. 9. embark spending as much as 23andme's test costs gets you a full look at your dog's familial and medical history. breed tests: 200+ wait time: 3-7 weeks health screening: yes wolf and coyote test: yes $189 from amazon we didn't just put this at the top because of the dog pun (though that is an added bonus). you trust only the best for your fur baby, and embark is nothing but praised by customers on amazon. this is due to the fact that the people at embark care about your dog just as much as you do — it tests both the maternal and paternal line of your dog, going all the way back to great grandparents. just swab the inside of your dog's cheek, send the tool back, and get your results in three to seven weeks. the good: they'll test for a crazy 256 quadrillion genes and over 200 dog breeds, and are even able to tell you if your dog has any wolf or coyote in his or her blood. as for the health test, embark screens for over 175 diseases and known medical issues for dogs, which is the highest number we've seen (aka next to nothing will get past this test). let's also discuss the stellar customer service: unlike when you take your pet to a giant vet office and they want you to get in and out as fast as possible, embark makes it obvious that they want the best for your pet. if something worrisome shows up in the health screening, they won't just send an envelope to your house that says "surprise, your dog is dying" — they'll call you and break the news like a doctor would, and then talk you through the options. amazing. the downside: 3-7 weeks is much quicker wait time than a lot of the human dna tests, but it could feel like forever when you're waiting to hear back about your new rescue or need the info for medical purposes. the price: forking over $199 (just as much as 23andme's most in-depth test) could be a downside — but you truly get what you pay for. if you need a bit more convincing, just read a few more amazon reviews. seriously, people are excited about this. best for super mixed mutts image: wisdom panel the good breed database absolutely destroys that of competitors • optional genetic disease screening • fast return time the bad low number of genetic markers • sometimes contradicting results the bottom line pinning down a mutt's breeds is often a shot in the dark, but this robust collection of breeds is your best bet. 10. wisdom panel 3.0 a massive pool of breeds to test for makes it possible to discover the makeup of even the most confusingly mixed mutts. breed tests: 350 wait time: 2-3 weeks health screening: optional wolf and coyote test: yes $79.97 from amazon if you cannot for the life of you figure out what random mix of breeds your dog could possibly be, wisdom panel's vast breed database may be able to give you answers that other kits gloss over. just swab the inside of your dog's cheek with the provided tool, send it back, and get your results in two to three weeks. the good: this amazon's choice kit claims to have the largest breed database in the dog dna market, testing for over 350 canine breeds — that's accounting for 50 more breeds than most other tests. remember, if your dog is a mutt and both of his parents were mutts, the chance of finding the exact percentages of each breed can be slightly limited, and something like "51% mixed breed" may come back if some older grandparent genes can't be untangled. (same for dogs imported from dogs imported from outside the u.s.) worth a shot, though. wisdom panel also offers a kit that combines the classic dna test with a disease detection test, which will screen your dog's dna for over 150 genetic health conditions common in dogs. (even if you only do the dna kit, wisdom panel will test for the potentially life-saving mdr1 drug sensitivity at no extra cost. sweet.) the downside: compared to embark, wisdom panel tests for less genetic markers. breakdowns of your dog's familial line (like whether the mom or dad dog was which breed) or what traits or diseases they may inherit likely won't have a lot of depth. the price: the flexibility here is nice as you only have to pay for what info you want. the basic test of your dog's breed breakdown goes for $49.99, and opting for wisdom panel's disease detection kit ups the price to $149.99. the health screening tests for about 75 less diseases than embark, but it's a great value either way. best for new dog parents image: homedna the good most all-encompassing test • goes past genetic info • dna test for cats, too the bad pricey for the value • doesn't explain results well • results may take longer than expected the bottom line not sure how to parent your pup? homedna gives a customized life plan, but dna results are less detailed. 11. homedna orivet dog dna test and life plan the life plan gives your dog a customized diet, exercise, and play routine to maximize lifespan and happiness. breed tests: 220 wait time: 3 weeks health screening: yes wolf and coyote test: no $89 from homedna determining what type of dog you actually have is obviously cool, and finding out if there are any medical issues that you need to prepare for is handy — but none of it takes the place of knowing how parent your breed. homedna puts that info into perspective with tangible suggestions related to eating and exercise routines. swab the inside of your dog's cheek with the provided tool, send it back, and get your results in around three weeks. the good: after comparing your dog's genes to over 220 breeds, homedna testing takes things to the next level by transforming the info into a "life plan" for your dog to live the longest, happiest life possible. they'll give personalized (er, doggo-ized) information about the best food to feed your dog, how big that specific mix should grow to be, and even the best way to play and interact with your dog's breed. (this also makes for an a+ bonding experience.) there's also a dna test for cats, and we stan homedna for that reason alone. homedna offers a package with a health screening (instead of the breed finder) and life plan package, testing your dog for over 100 genetic diseases and traits that pose health risks. the downside: the value of the mixed breed and personalized lifestyle guide is fantastic, but a health screening for $125 just isn't as good of a deal as other kits (especially when home dna only tests for 100 medical issues vs. upwards of 175 with competitors). results also have a tendency to be vague and not send in a timely manner. the price: both the mixed breed dog identification and life plan test and the health screen and life plan test are $125 a pop. budget pick image: find my pet the good budget-friendly • impressive reviews for the price • health screening included the bad no purebred confirmation • results could be really detailed or really worthless the bottom line it'll answer most of your mixed-breed questions without breaking the bank, but don't expect vet-level specifics. 12. find my pet this budget-friendly test does a breed breakdown and health screening for less than a bag of fancy dog food. breed tests: 200 wait time: 3-4 weeks health screening: yes wolf and coyote test: no see details dog food and vet visits are expensive, man, and there's gotta be an option for a "just curios" pet dna test rather than one to seriously identify health issues. find my pet is the only well-reviewed kit we've seen to offer both a breed breakdown screening and health screening together for less than the cost of a grooming appointment at petco. just swab the inside of your dog's cheek, send the tool back, and get your results in three to four weeks. the good: it's rare to find an affordable dog dna test that gives a worthwhile breakdown at all, so find my pet deserves kudos for this in-depth of results for the price point. but keep your expectations in check — the idea is slightly "you get what you pay for" here, so your dog's ancestry percentages probably won't be as detailed as they would be with a more expensive kit, as find my pet doesn't incorporate quite as many breeds or genetic markers. however, you may not even care to get that specific, and find my pet will at least satisfy your curiosity about what breed of pup you have on your hands. the bad: this test is kind of hit or miss. some reviews say that the results were way too inconclusive despite only being out $70, but others insist that find my pet's results were more specific than results received by one of the top kits. (note: find my pet will not confirm if your dog is a purebred or not.) the price: again, most decent tests won't come under $100, let alone under $70. find my pet offers the breed breakdown plus a health screening at no additional cost, and for a database with over 200 breeds, it's a bang for your buck. topics: 23andme, adoption, culture, dna-test, family tree, health & fitness, mashable deals related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound heads up: all products featured here are selected by mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. if you buy something, mashable may earn an affiliate commission. related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.