video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map entrepreneur.com writer guidelines each month, millions of readers visit our site in search of solutions, new ideas and inspiration. sharing your thoughts, experiences and hard-earned problem-solving techniques is a great way to help others, make connections and strengthen your personal brand and stature as a business leader. here is what our editors look for in contributed stories (and we want to avoid.) what do we look for? here is what is important to us when considering submissions to our site. distinctive message: search the site for the topic you're interested in writing about. that way you'll know how to make your piece unique. please don't submit a piece you submitted already with just a few tweaks added. and please use more than one example of a good company doing good things to illustrate your point (i.e., avoid any press-release-type promotion of one business that reads like ad content). solid content: inspirational pieces, trend pieces and advice pieces with three to 10 (or more) solid takeaway tips are our bread and butter. advice entrepreneurs can use: to us, “advice” means usable, numbered tips (don’t send us simplistic points such as “get your company onto social media” and “be sure to attend industry networking events.”). our readers are sophisticated entrepreneurs. give them information they can use. acknowledgment of your financial relationship, if one exists, with any companies/individuals you write about or link to: we’re serious about this. violation of this rule could mean we’ll have to break up with you. no paid links or mentions: this is a serious violation of our standards. any editorial coverage given in exchange for compensation of any kind will result in deactivation from our site. trustworthy resources: embed links to original sources of information (studies, stats, etc.) correct length: pieces typically run about 700-1,000 words. more expansive pieces that run over 1,500 words are welcome and will do better in search. inclusion: writers should be conscious of representing the diversity found in the entrepreneurial community. originality: we tend to only accept original copy that is exclusive to entrepreneur.com. plagiarism will result in removal from the platform. appropriate sourcing of quotes: this means that quotes should be attributed to a source, e.g.: “‘blah, blah, blah,’” warren buffett told me in an interview” -or- “‘blah, blah, blah,” warren buffett said in an interview with the new york times.” other items related to your topic: anecdotes, quotes, academic/think tank studies, data points. these must all be sourced or linked to their sources. don’t make us search for your sources, please. no self-promotion: articles are a way to bolster your credibility as a thought leader and expert. they are not a place to promote your company or services you provide. no warmed-over old posts: never submit a piece you submitted last month or last year, with just a few new tweaks added. these will be rejected. proofreading and spell-check the document: spell check and grammar check before submitting. articles that are in bad shape will be rejected. factual accuracy: check the spelling of individuals and company names. make sure to confirm facts with several sources. an absence of formatting: this means no bolded text, no italics (except for publication titles), no all-caps words, etc. we’ll just have to erase all your formatting and do it again in our own style. photos: don’t put in photos, unless it's an image you or your company took. in that case, talk to your editor. lead time: please expect 3 to 4 weeks before your story gets evaluated. please keep this in mind if you are writing about timely topics like holiday seasons. editorial judgment entrepreneur reserves the right to edit all content submitted for publication, including grammar, formatting, headlines and length. we reserve the right to reject content for any reason. we reserve the right to remove any links or content we consider offensive, harmful or overly promotional. any violation of our policies can result in removal of content or removal from the platform at the editors’ discretion. company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account