about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ the best hummus 1,541 comments jump to recipe the best hummus is lusciously creamy, yet somehow light and fluffy. it’s beautifully smooth and swirled, and begging to be scooped up onto a wedge of pita bread. it’s nutty and tangy, thanks to the tahini, with notes of bright, fresh lemon and mellow garlic. i encountered the most delicious hummus at aladdin cafe, a local mediterranean restaurant. that hummus met all of the above characteristics, and i was hoping the owner might enlighten me with his techniques. when i asked, though, he replied, “it’s a secret,” with a sly smile and walked away. i went home determined to learn how to make magnificently creamy hummus. first, i took the fancy flavorings out of my other hummus recipes to make plain hummus. it was dense, a little gritty, and harshly garlicky. i was so disappointed. next, i went to google and opened up a million tabs to learn everything about hummus. you know me. ten hummus attempts later, i’m ready to share all of my hummus tips and tricks with you. get ready to make the best hummus of your life! the internet at large raves that an israeli chef named michael solomonov makes the very best hummus. it’s so good that bon appetit named his hummus their 2015 dish of the year. that’s some serious hummus. solomonov’s secret? he uses chickpeas that have been cooked until they’re so tender, they’re mushy. he cooks his chickpeas with some baking soda, too. according to bon appetit, baking soda “raises the ph of the water and helps the little guys break down to a soft, pulpy mass… perfect for an ultra-smooth purée.” overcooked chickpeas seemed like a promising idea to me. you see, i once tried to make hummus with canned chickpeas that were oddly undercooked, and they made terrible hummus. no matter how long i blended the hummus, those undercooked chickpeas never blended into creamy oblivion. plus, baking soda helps break down the chickpea skins, which means you do not need to peel off the skins individually. who has time for that?! i bet you don’t have time to soak your chickpeas overnight and cook them from scratch like solomonov, either. here’s my time-saving solution: just boil canned or leftover cooked chickpeas with baking soda for twenty minutes. you can see the difference that baking soda makes in the photo below. see how the chickpeas on the right are popping open more? they are significantly softer in texture as well. the chickpeas are ready to go after a quick rinse under cool running water, which rinses off the baking soda flavor and cools the chickpeas so your hummus doesn’t develop a weird outer film. are you as excited about this as i am? you can have this incredible hummus now-ish, not tomorrow! no chickpea peeling required. i have a few more tips and techniques to making great hummus, so read on or scroll down for the full recipe and variations. how to make the best hummus 1) mushy chickpeas cook canned or leftover cooked chickpeas according to step 1 below. this only adds 20 minutes to your hummus-making time, and it’s my number one tip for making perfect hummus at home. want to cook your chickpeas from scratch? you sure can—see the recipe notes. can you over-cook your chickpeas in an instant pot? i don’t recommend it—you’ll end up with a mess of chickpea mash clogging your vent and a puddle of chickpea cooking water surrounding your instant pot. i speak from experience. 2) great tahini all tahini is not created equally. when i was in israel, israelis’s spoke of tahini, or “t’hina,” with reverence. i learned that the best tahini comes from ethiopia. store-bought tahini in the u.s. varies widely in flavor, with some of them so bad that they’ve ruined my hummus. my favorite brands of tahini? i had to try solomonov’s favorite, soom. i found it on amazon (affiliate link) and i have to say that it is worth it. second favorite? trader joe’s organic tahini, which is made from ethiopian sesame seeds like soom’s. whole foods 365 used to be my go-to, but i encountered a few bad jars that tasted so bad, i’m afraid to try again. don’t skimp on the tahini, either—you need to use 1/2 cup tahini per can of chickpeas for rich and irresistible hummus. i once toured an enormous hummus production facility and learned that they often reduce the cost of producing store-bought hummus by using less tahini. sneaky! 3) ice-cold water why do you always want to mix ice-cold water with tahini? this is another trick that i learned on my trip. i can’t find a scientific explanation, but it seems to help make the hummus light and fluffy, and lightens the color of the tahini to a pale ivory color. 4) fresh-squeezed lemon juice store-bought lemon juice always tastes stale and sad, and it will make your hummus taste stale and sad. buy lemons and your humus will taste fresh and delicious. i almost always add another tablespoon of lemon juice to my hummus for extra flavor before i plate it, but i’ll leave the tang factor up to you. 5) garlic, mellowed in lemon juice this is another trick from solomonov—if you mince the garlic in the food processor or blender with the lemon juice and let that mixture rest for a few minutes, the garlic will lose its harsh, raw bite and mellow out. i tried it before and after, and he’s right! here’s serious eats’ scientific explanation for why this works. 6) olive oil, blended into the hummus and drizzled on top solomonov doesn’t blend any olive oil into his hummus, but i think that one tablespoon makes the hummus taste even more luxurious and creamy. i recommend it! 7) ground cumin the cumin is subtle and offers some “je ne sais quoi,” if you will. it’s a common ingredient in plain hummus recipes, and makes the hummus taste a little more special. hummus variations this hummus recipe is plain (and by plain, i mean delicious), but you can blend any of the following in with the chickpeas to make variations. green goddess hummus: 3/4 cup loosely packed fresh, leafy herbs sun-dried tomato hummus: 3/4 cup oil-packed sun-dried tomatoes, rinsed and drained (from one 6.7-ounce jar) kalamata olive hummus: 3/4 cup pitted kalamata olives toasted sesame hummus: 1/2 teaspoon in the hummus, plus 1 teaspoon drizzled on top hummus garnishes drizzle of olive oil sprinkle of ground sumac, which is gloriously sour and deep pink, or paprika, which is basically flavorless but offers a splash of color sesame seeds or seeded spice blend, such as dukkah middle eastern hot sauce, such as zhoug or shatta chopped fresh parsley ok, let’s make some hummus! i’m dying to hear how this hummus turns out for you. please let me know in the comments and tell me if overcooking your chickpeas makes all the difference! you can also share a photo of your results on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate so we can all see your results. watch how to make hummus print best hummus author: cookie and kate prep time: 20 minutes cook time: 20 minutes total time: 40 minutes yield: 2 cups (8 servings) 1x category: dip method: food processor cuisine: israeli ★★★★★ 4.9 from 652 reviews learn how to make the best homemade hummus! it’s creamy, dreamy and light. this hummus recipe is easy to make—no peeling chickpeas or overnight soak required. recipe yields about 2 cups. scale 1x2x3x ingredients 1 can (15 ounces) chickpeas, rinsed and drained, or 1 ½ cups cooked chickpeas ½ teaspoon baking soda (if you’re using canned chickpeas) ¼ cup lemon juice (from 1 ½ to 2 lemons), more to taste 1 medium-to-large clove garlic, roughly chopped ½ teaspoon fine sea salt, to taste ½ cup tahini 2 to 4 tablespoons ice water, more as needed ½ teaspoon ground cumin 1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil any of the following garnishes: drizzle of olive oil or zhoug sauce, sprinkle of ground sumac or paprika, chopped fresh parsley instructions place the chickpeas in a medium saucepan and add the baking soda. cover the chickpeas by several inches of water, then bring the mixture to a boil over high heat. continue boiling, reducing heat if necessary to prevent overflow, for about 20 minutes, or until the chickpeas look bloated, their skins are falling off, and they’re quite soft. in a fine-mesh strainer, drain the chickpeas and run cool water over them for about 30 seconds. set aside (no need to peel the chickpeas for this recipe!). meanwhile, in a food processor or high-powered blender, combine the lemon juice, garlic and salt. process until the garlic is very finely chopped, then let the mixture rest so the garlic flavor can mellow, ideally 10 minutes or longer. add the tahini to the food processor and blend until the mixture is thick and creamy, stopping to scrape down any tahini stuck to the sides and bottom of the processor as necessary. while running the food processor, drizzle in 2 tablespoons ice water. scrape down the food processor, and blend until the mixture is ultra smooth, pale and creamy. (if your tahini was extra-thick to begin with, you might need to add 1 to 2 tablespoons more ice water.) add the cumin and the drained, over-cooked chickpeas to the food processor. while blending, drizzle in the olive oil. blend until the mixture is super smooth, scraping down the sides of the processor as necessary, about 2 minutes. add more ice water by the tablespoon if necessary to achieve a super creamy texture. taste, and adjust as necessary—i almost always add another ¼ teaspoon salt for more overall flavor and another tablespoon of lemon juice for extra zing. scrape the hummus into a serving bowl or platter, and use a spoon to create nice swooshes on top. top with garnishes of your choice, and serve. leftover hummus keeps well in the refrigerator, covered, for up to 1 week. notes recipe adapted from michael solomonov, via the new york times and bon appetit, and yotam ottolenghi. how to cook dry chickpeas in a hurry for this recipe: in a large saucepan, combine 5 ounces (¾ cup) dried chickpeas and ½ teaspoon baking soda, and fill the pot with water. bring the mixture to a boil over high heat and skim off the surface foam as needed. continue boiling over medium-high, adding more water if you start running out, until the chickpeas are very mushy and falling apart, about 1 hour to 1 hour 15 minutes. drain in a fine-mesh colander, rinse under cool running water, and drain well before using. start the recipe at step 2. ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes green goddess hummus lebanese lemon-parsley bean salad edamame hummus share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories appetizers, condiments, dips & sauces, dairy free, egg free, fall, favorites, gluten free, independence day, lebanese, mediterranean, nut free, pantry friendly, recipes, snacks, soy free, spring, summer, super bowl, tomato free, vegan, winter ▸ ingredients chickpeas, hummus, lemon, tahini ↢ newer homemade bloody marys older ↣ zhoug! (spicy cilantro sauce) by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) valerie anderson march 16, 2020 oh man. i just found this website and though i’m trying to cut and paste a few recipes to my meal plan document, i just finally said forget it and pasted the link to your whole website – there’s way too many awesome recipes and fantastic tip & anecdotes to quickly peruse – i want this website and your clear & concise guidance to be a daily staple in my kitchen. thank you for being passionate in what you do, in a more humane and natural way. kind regards, valerie anderson reply anna march 17, 2020 best hummus i’ve ever had!!! beats all the restaurants i currently love. thank you for sharing this esp at this time of lockdown with the ncov19. it is timely to get back to nutritious food.. which helps our internal defense always god bless & i look forward to your continued good work! reply debbie march 19, 2020 hi kate, i would love to try this recipe. could i trouble you to give me the name of the tahini you use (the privacy browser i use won’t take me to amazon.com to see it)? i would like to try to find it on amazon.ca or elsewhere. i live in canada and from time to time order an organic hummus (they offer both raw and roasted) online that i like really well but would like to try this one if i can find it, to compare. thanks very much! reply kate march 20, 2020 soom foods has a great tahini! i hope you can try it. reply debbie march 20, 2020 great. thanks so much for getting back to me. i’m going to try to find it. reply lula march 19, 2020 super creamy and delicious! made it in my ninja blender. can’t wait to try variations ★★★★★ reply laurel kent march 20, 2020 just made this. it is very creamy and i love how there is not so much olive oil. love it reply carey morrison march 21, 2020 thank you so much for all your work in developing this recipe! i have tried lots of recipes (even to the point of wasting half an hour peeling chickpeas!). this one actually tastes amazing!! your attention to detail is really appreciated! it is really the details that make the difference! take care! reply diane b march 21, 2020 wow!!! this is really, really good hummus! trader joe’s was out of tahini, so i had to use what was available at grocery store; still turned out excellent. my pantry will never be without garbanzo beans and tahini again. thank you for another “keeper”! reply victoria j chapman march 21, 2020 jarred store brand lemon juice, ziyad tahini, cheapest canned garbanzo beans, and this is still the best hummus i’ve made. i love your obsessive attention to detail and relentless research. shared it with my neighbor in isolation and he loves it too. ★★★★★ reply julie madison march 22, 2020 love this hummus!!! so smooth & creamy as promised and easy to prepare. i separated half of it and added sun-dried tomato & pine nuts and kept 1/2 plain. i’m also a garlic fan so i added an extra clove. thank you for sharing this recipe!!!! ★★★★★ reply carol march 22, 2020 unbelievably delicious!! as good as our gourmet middle eastern organic market for a fraction of the price! thank you !! ★★★★★ reply natalie hegarty march 23, 2020 i have made this recipe twice. it is my family favourite. i will be making it often. ★★★★★ reply knitski march 23, 2020 great recipe! works like a charm and another well-done treat from cookie and kate! i like the smoothness that this recipe makes due to the extra cooking of the canned chickpeas. i spice our hummus up with a variety of spices but it is great to have a nice place to start! ★★★★★ reply sharon march 24, 2020 i had been so disappointed with my previous hummus recipe. i just received my soom tahini from amazon and whipped up a batch of your hummus – but with no added olive oil and it was truly delicious. i did need to transfer all back to the vitamix to achieve the creamy smoothness but it was worth it. thank you for this method and all of your wonderful creations. ★★★★★ reply shantaa march 24, 2020 this is an awesome recipe! the best one i have tried. i can’t believe my hummus turned out so creamy, smooth and delicious!! i added sundried tomatoes to half and the other half was plain. thanks for all your tips in making this recipe. i found your site by chance last year and made a few of your recipes – they all came out wonderful. thank you kate and keep up the wonderful work. ★★★★★ reply elissa brannan march 25, 2020 this was delicious! never heard of cooking the chickpeas! i added a little a tar to bump it up! thanks for sharing. ★★★★★ reply claudia march 25, 2020 hi cookie and kate. i have had my fair share of “authentic” hummus having spent my childhood as an ex-pat in the middle east. and i’ve been making a version of it for the best of 30 years using the same ingredients as listed in your recipe. but the flavor of my hummus has never melded into the unique flavor or texture that your recipe produces. somewhere between the simmering chickpea/baking soda mixture and the resting of the salt, garlic and fresh lemon juice, a small miracle occurred. i’ll never make another version. thank you! ★★★★★ reply kate march 26, 2020 i’m happy this meet your expectation, claudia! reply wendy march 25, 2020 wish i had remembered i had this recipe open in my browser before i tried a different recipe which is ok but too salty. definitely trying this one next time. reply kate march 26, 2020 let me know what you think when you do, wendy! reply lauren hendrickson march 25, 2020 thank you so much for this recipe! we all love it, and it really is so creamy and smoothe. i double it and add about 6 garlic cloves as opposed to two but hey, keeping those immune systems strong whilst enjoying deliciousness. i am also in the kc area, so thats cool ‍♀️ ★★★★★ reply kate march 26, 2020 hello, lauren! thanks for sharing how you make this hummus. i hope you are enjoying the kc weather today! reply laurey march 26, 2020 i made this today and it’s so delicious and creamy. i was a little confused about boiling the canned chickpeas but it works. this will be my go to recipe. i’m going to check out your other recipes. thanks ★★★★★ reply jaymie march 27, 2020 i wanted to thank you so much for all of the time and effort you put into researching and experimenting to make such a delicious hummus and then sharing your fruits of your labours with all of us! it is absolutely wonderfully creamy and delicious!! thank you for your time and generosity!! ★★★★★ reply « older comments hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}