about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ ratatouille 243 comments jump to recipe it’s ratatouille season! ratatouille is a classic end-of-summer french stew that’s fun to say (rat-tuh-too-ee) and fun to make. it’s packed with fresh produce: tomatoes, eggplant, zucchini and yellow squash, and bell pepper. this summer, we sampled authentic french ratatouille in provence. i liked some ratatouille more than others, so i vowed to come up with my own favorite ratatouille recipe when i came home. today is the day! in provence, ratatouille is typically cooked on the stove. each vegetable is cooked in olive oil until it’s properly tender. in the end, all of the ingredients are combined and simmered to meld the flavors. the french know how to cook, and this concept is definitely one to follow. ratatouille combines a large volume of late-summer vegetables that have different cook times. if you tried to throw them all into a pot at once, none of the veggies would have a chance to caramelize, the eggplant would fall apart by the time the zucchini is tender, and your ratatouille would probably never meet its full potential. this recipe is a little different. we’re going to roast the vegetables until they’re deliciously caramelized on the edges and a little dehydrated (no squeaky or mushy zucchini here). then, we’ll add those perfectly roasted veggies to a simmering fresh tomato sauce. this method yields amazing ratatouille. my husband says it’s the best he’s ever had. it’s also easier to make than proper stovetop ratatouille, since it requires less time standing over the stove. hooray! 5 reasons to love ratatouille it’s a great way to use up a surplus of late-summer veggies. if you come home from the farmers’ market with too much, make ratatouille. ratatouille turns basic vegetables into magic. even if you don’t typically love eggplant or summer squash, i bet you’ll enjoy this ratatouille. it’s vegan and gluten free for all to enjoy. just choose your accompaniments accordingly. ratatouille is a great make-ahead recipe. it tastes even better the next day and reheats beautifully. (you can also freeze extra ratatouille for later.) make it a movie night and watch disney’s ratatouille! ratatouille ingredients this recipe features traditional ratatouille ingredients, which are: fresh tomatoes fresh tomatoes are key for making ratatouille that tastes fresh and lively, not dull and heavy. we’ll grate the tomatoes (or blitz the in the food processor) and cook them with onion and garlic to make an irresistible tomato sauce. i tried this recipe with canned tomatoes and it didn’t taste nearly as nice. you can do it if you have to (use one large 28-ounce can of crushed tomatoes), but fresh tomatoes really are best. eggplant eggplant is known for being difficult to prepare, but it’s easy to roast! no salting necessary. the oven takes care of everything. zucchini & yellow squash i love the visual combination of green zucchini and yellow squash. if you want to use two of one type instead of both, no problem. bell pepper take your pick from red, orange or yellow bell pepper. olive oil extra-virgin olive oil deserves a shout-out. we’re only using as much as necessary, so this ratatouille is not greasy like some can be. tossing the vegetables lightly in oil raises their surface temperature, which helps us achieve those delicious caramelized edges. finally, stirring a teaspoon of olive oil into the pot offers some extra richness and herbal flavor. don’t skip it! fresh basil & seasonings we’ll finish off our ratatouille with a handful of chopped basil, which livens up our stew with fresh flavor. we’ll also add a sprinkle of dried oregano—crumble it between your fingers as you add it to wake up the flavor. then, add salt and pepper until your ratatouille tastes completely wonderful. how to make ratatouille you’ll find the full rundown in the recipe below. don’t be intimidated by the length of the recipe—it’s not hard. here’s the gist: prep your veggies and preheat the oven. toss the eggplant with olive oil and salt on one baking sheet, and the squash and bell pepper on another baking sheet. arrange the vegetables in an even layer. (using two pans gives the vegetables room to breathe and lets us split the veggies by cook times.) bake both pans in the oven at once, stirring halfway. the eggplant will finish sooner than the other pan. meanwhile, make a simple tomato sauce on the stovetop. stir the roasted vegetables into the simmering tomato sauce as they’re ready. lastly, add fresh basil and seasonings. serve immediately, or let it cool to room temperature before refrigerating for later. watch how to make ratatouille ratatouille serving suggestions ok, one more reason to love ratatouille—you can serve it so many different ways! here are a few ideas: serve ratatouille as a stew, with crusty bread on the side. toasted if you wish. serve it over freshly cooked pasta. so good. leftovers make a great breakfast. just add cooked eggs: fried, scrambled or poached. turn it into an appetizer by piling spoonfuls onto toasted baguette. you might enjoy a sprinkle of grated parmesan or mozzarella over any of the above. suggested equipment you probably have the proper equipment in your kitchen already. here’s what you’ll need (these are affiliate links): two large, rimmed baking sheets for roasting your vegetables. these pans (called “half-sheet pans”) are the perfect size for roasting one pound of diced eggplant without overlap. they are what all professional recipe developers use, they’re inexpensive, and i swear by them. cheese grater or food processor for breaking down the fresh tomatoes. dutch oven or heavy-bottomed soup pot for the stovetop. please let me know how your ratatouille turns out in the comments! it’s a little labor intensive, as all good ratatouilles are, but i hope it proves 100 percent worth the effort. looking for more delicious late-summer recipes? here are a few of my favorites: layered panzanella salad heirloom caprese salad double tomato pesto spaghetti with zucchini noodles vegetable paella gluten-free peach crisp print ratatouille author: cookie and kate prep time: 20 minutes cook time: 40 minutes total time: 1 hour yield: 4 servings 1x category: stew method: roasted and stovetop cuisine: french ★★★★★ 4.9 from 108 reviews learn how to make the best french ratatouille with this foolproof recipe! the trick is to roast the vegetables, then add them to a simmering tomato sauce. recipe yields 4 generous or 6 more modest servings. scale 1x2x3x ingredients 2 pounds ripe red tomatoes (6 medium or 4 large) 1 medium eggplant (1 pound), diced into ½-inch cubes 1 large red, orange, or yellow bell pepper (about 8 ounces), cut into ¾-inch squares 1 medium-to-large zucchini (about 8 ounces), diced into ½-inch cubes 1 large yellow squash (about 8 ounces), diced into ½-inch cubes 5 tablespoons + 1 teaspoon extra-virgin olive oil, divided ¾ teaspoon fine sea salt, divided, more to taste 1 medium yellow onion, chopped 4 cloves garlic, pressed or minced ¼ cup chopped fresh basil ¼ teaspoon red pepper flakes, more or less to taste ¼ teaspoon dried oregano freshly ground black pepper, to taste instructions preheat the oven to 425 degrees fahrenheit with one rack in the middle of the oven and one in the upper third of the oven. line two large, rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper for easy clean-up, if desired. to prepare your tomatoes, remove any woody cores with a paring knife. then, grate them on the large holes of a box grater into a bowl (this is easiest if you hold the tomato at a diagonal), and chop any remaining tomato skin. or, blitz the tomatoes in a food processor until they are broken into a frothy pulp. set aside. on one baking sheet, toss the diced eggplant with 2 tablespoons of the olive oil until lightly coated. arrange the eggplant in a single layer across the pan, sprinkle with ¼ teaspoon of the salt, and set aside. on the other baking sheet, toss the bell pepper, zucchini and yellow squash with 1 tablespoon of olive oil and ¼ teaspoon salt. arrange the vegetables in a single layer. place the eggplant pan on the middle rack and the other vegetables on the top rack. set the timer for 15 minutes. meanwhile, warm 2 tablespoons of the olive oil in a large dutch oven or soup pot over medium heat. add the onion and ¼ teaspoon salt. cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is tender and caramelizing on the edges, about 8 to 10 minutes. add the garlic, stir, and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. add the tomatoes, and use a wooden spoon or sturdy silicone spatula to stir any browned bits stuck to the bottom of the pan into the mixture. reduce the heat to medium-low, or as necessary to maintain a gentle simmer. once 15 minutes are up, remove both pans from the oven, stir, and redistribute the contents of each evenly across the pans. this time, place the eggplant on the top rack and other vegetables on the middle rack. bake until the eggplant is nice and golden on the edges, about 10 more minutes (the eggplant will be done sooner than the rest). remove the eggplant from the oven, and carefully stir the eggplant into the simmering tomato sauce. let the squash and bell pepper pan continue to bake until the peppers are caramelized, about 5 to 10 more minutes. then, transfer the contents of the pan into the simmering sauce. continue simmering for 5 more minutes to give the flavors time to meld. remove the pot from the heat. stir in 1 teaspoon olive oil, the fresh basil and red pepper flakes. crumble the dried oregano between your fingers as you drop it into the pot. season to taste with additional salt (i usually add ¼ teaspoon more) and black pepper. serve in bowls, perhaps with a little drizzle of olive oil, additional chopped basil, or black pepper on top (all optional). like all stews, this ratatouille’s flavor improves as it cools. it’s even better reheated the next day. ratatouille keeps well in the refrigerator, covered, for 4 days, or for several months in the freezer. notes serving suggestions: this stew is great on its own, with crusty (potentially toasted) bread, with parmesan cheese sprinkled on top, with cooked eggs, or on pasta. ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes spiralized ratatouille mediterranean quinoa salad with roasted summer vegetables spicy roasted ratatouille with spaghetti share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories budget friendly, condiments, dips & sauces, dairy free, egg free, fall, favorites, gluten free, main dishes, mediterranean, nut free, pack for lunch, recipes, side dishes, soups and stews, soy free, summer, vegan ▸ ingredients basil, bell peppers, eggplant, tomatoes, yellow squash, zucchini ↢ newer za’atar spice blend older ↣ pimento cheese by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) browneyedfili january 9, 2020 what vegetable do you suggest i use to replace the bell pepper? it gives me horrible indigestion. i made your baked ziti with roasted vegetables the other week and it was divine but i only ate it twice because my indiestion was so bad after that i didn’t want to put myself through that a third time. love all your recipes i’ve tried so far and love your ingredient break-down section. ★★★★★ reply kate january 10, 2020 hi! you could add more of the other vegetables if you like. or another favorite vegetable. i’m happy you are enjoying so many recipes! reply dennis january 12, 2020 i made this exactly as described but had to use two zucchinis as we don’t have a yellow squash like yours. i have made many ratatouille variations over the years and didn’t have high expectations. it turned out really well. my daughter wants me to make bottles of it to take home to use with pasta. this is the first such request she made, so it was an event of great significance. it is the first one where the zucchini didn’t turn out soggy and the taste was excellent. it is an interesting and different variation of the genre. ★★★★★ reply kate january 13, 2020 i love it! thanks for sharing, dennis. reply suzanne january 13, 2020 if i could recommend anything it would be to double the batch! this ratatouille recipe was so easy to follow and the end result was delicious! definitely don’t skip adding the basil at the end. ★★★★★ reply kate january 16, 2020 thank you, suzanne! i’m glad you love it. reply brenda vlkojan january 18, 2020 delicious recipe. i roasted my tomatoes first, and added 2 peppers and 3 zuchinni and no yellow squash but otherwise followed recipe and it was wonderful! i had this in france and have been trying to duplicate it, this is as close as i have gotten! ★★★★★ reply kate january 20, 2020 thank you for sharing, brenda! reply kerry phelan january 23, 2020 i’ve always loved ratatouille but never made it myself. this was delicious! we ate it the first night as a side dish or some used it as a topping for pasta side. then leftovers mixed in with scrambled eggs was amazing. i just finished it off and can’t wait to make some more! ★★★★★ reply kate january 23, 2020 wonderful, kerry! thank you for your review. reply jean january 26, 2020 no helpers so hate prepping! prep ahead. made rat many times b4, thought i would try this but did not like extra work of roasting. i did not use your spices and i am salt-free, but i did use 2 bay leaves in the simmer stage, and i use canned tomatoes if i have to. always fab with parm or romano on top. in addition to your serving suggestions, sometimes i combine a serving with a bowl of chili or chili mac for variety. hot, cold, plain or combo, rat is the best! your recipe was ok. ★★★ reply kate january 27, 2020 i’m sorry you didn’t love my take on this recipe, jean. thank you for your feedback. reply teresa march 13, 2020 actually you made so many changes to this recipe you basically didn’t make this recipe! i made this recipe and it was delicious – roasting veggies. . .so incredibly yummy! thank you ★★★★★ reply sonya january 27, 2020 sooooo good!!!! i have made this recipe several times within the last 3 months and i’m preparing to make another pot today. it’s flavorful and healthy. thanks for sharing:) reply kate january 30, 2020 you’re welcome, sonya! reply debbie catechi january 29, 2020 i love your recipes! i’m on a whole food plant based diet, no oil. can this recipe be made without the oil?? reply kate january 30, 2020 hi debbie, you need the oil to help caramelize the vegetables, but you could see if it works without. i don’t tend to have luck without oil when roasting or sauting. reply jan january 30, 2020 this recipe looks yummy, but don’t care for eggplant. what can i substitute? thanks so much! jan reply kate january 31, 2020 hi jan! to keep this authentic, you really do need the eggplant. however, you could try doubling one of the other vegetable options. reply meghan february 1, 2020 made this tonight and it was absolutely delicious! thank you for the wonderful recipe ★★★★★ reply kate february 6, 2020 you’re welcome, meghan! reply amazon offers february 8, 2020 this is one of the amazing recipes i have ever found. your article is just amazing thanks for sharing this. ★★★★★ reply karen february 9, 2020 wow! this is a fantastic recipe! i just wish i would have doubled it! absolutely going into my rotation! thank you!!! ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 you’re welcome, karen! reply charo paredes february 11, 2020 correct pronunciation is ra-ta-twee reply vanessa rodriguez february 11, 2020 just finished making it! came out delicious.. thank you ★★★★★ reply kate february 13, 2020 i’m happy to hear that, vanessa! thanks for your review. reply roxie february 12, 2020 your ratatouille recipe is the best ever! roasting the veggies makes all the difference. i served this all-veggie meal to meat eaters who loved it! thanks for sharing this awesome recipe. it’s now in my collection of favorites. ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 roasting does make all the difference! thanks for your review, roxie. reply susan hayward february 18, 2020 wow – this is absolutely the best. my husband is not a big fan, so to cater to his taste, i didn’t add the fresh tomatoes. roasting the vegetables made them so much better; especially the eggplant, which is so good when it’s not saturated with olive oil. and my husband – he had a second helping! ★★★★★ reply angelica february 18, 2020 this was such a wonderful dish to make for friends. i have been craving ratatouille ever since i went to france and this recipe was the best rendition i’ve found. ★★★★★ reply carol fyffe february 19, 2020 ive made the ratatouille and the mushroom risotto and the veggie lasagne x unfortunately no photos x they got eaten before l could take them x as you can gather x they were a success x and on the books for cooking again xxmy daughter loved the tecture of the mashed veggies x where l like mine left whole xx thank you for sharing xx ★★★★★ reply sadye february 19, 2020 my parents have gifted me with tons of frozen romas from their garden this summer, and i stumbled upon this recipe. it may sound strange, but do you think the sauce would be too thin for me to use this on a pizza? i guess we could just nom on a baguette until we’re full and get the same effect, but we like making pizza dough :) i promise to come back and report on results if we try! reply kate february 21, 2020 hey sadye, lucky you! i think this ratatouille would be awesome on pizza—i’m actually wondering if it will be a bit too thick. do let me know if you try! reply sadye february 21, 2020 will do — i actually just had some amazing goat cheese grits at a restaurant last night so i might try that instead :) but i’ll update for all those curious! reply lori february 24, 2020 hi kate, love this recipe! i have been cooking something similar for several years using the same ingredients but i include parsnip to the veggies being roasted. i usually slice and blanch them so they will roast in a timely manner. their flavor though is sweet and robust shall we say and can easily overwhelm so i use it sparingly but it adds a wonderful flavor. i add spinach to my tomato base and a bit of parmesan, add the roasted veggies, simmer for about 20 mins and serve over a pasta. the roasting is the clincher though for enhanced flavor. thank you again for sharing! ★★★★★ reply jeremy february 27, 2020 great recipe, and couldn’t agree more about sprinkling parmesan cheese on top of the dish. thanks for sharing. reply diane kliebard march 1, 2020 i have made ratatouille for years. this was far and away the best one i have made and my vegetarian guests – who make ratatouille themselves, frequently – also loved it. the veggies had texture and individual flavors instead of boiling away into mush, and everything was so wonderfully flavorful. i used mushrooms instead of crookneck squash (i don’t think i’ll do that again), canned diced san marzano tomatoes (so much better than what i can get locally), and only had dried basil on hand, so i used that. i served it over wheat berries. fantastic! ★★★★★ reply rosetta wiltgen march 9, 2020 i am enjoying your roasted ratatouille recipe! the veggies are flavorful and have a perfect consistency. the preparation was easy, since i just chopped them in chunks with the skin on and pulsed the onions and garlic, and then the fresh tomatoes in a food processor. will definitely make this delicious, healthy meal again! ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 great to hear, rosetta! thanks for sharing. reply mary march 13, 2020 i made your ratatouille and it was absolutely the best i’ve ever had! served over corn grits (polenta) for a very filling and delicious supper. family devoured, but the tiny bit leftover was great with my scrambled eggs the next morning. thank you! reply manpreet singh march 17, 2020 what a nice writeup. i really love to read your blog ★★★★★ reply john green march 18, 2020 never had ratitouille. this recipe is beyond reproach. my wife and i started vegan in october last year because i was getting a hip replacement. surgery went well and i have lost twenty pounds. this is probably is one the best natural vegan dishes i have ever had. reply kate march 19, 2020 i hope your recovery has gone well, john! i’m glad you love this one. reply tash march 20, 2020 delicious! ★★★★★ reply lisa chock march 20, 2020 i actually was taught to lightly dredge the zucchini and yellow squash in flour and sauce in olive oil or butter before adding it in the tomato sauce so it could hold it’s integrity. i don’t hav not worry about it overcooking and falling apart. i also like to add a bay leaf in the process. ★★★★★ reply lisa chock march 20, 2020 i actually was taught to lightly dredge the zucchini and yellow squash in flour and saute in olive oil or butter before adding it in the tomato sauce so it could hold it’s integrity. i don’t hav not worry about it overcooking and falling apart. i also like to add a bay leaf in the process. ★★★★★ reply helga halvorsen march 21, 2020 so easy and so yummy! 2 out of 3 kids ate it :) reply lina march 23, 2020 love this recipe!! whole house favorite! ★★★★★ reply elaina march 25, 2020 made this the other day and it was amazing. this recipe is so delicious and so easy to make. have made twice. i had to double the recipe the second time as my husband really enjoyed it as much as i did. it will be our weekly dinner meal from now on. ★★★★★ reply kate march 26, 2020 i love to hear that, elaina! thanks for your review. reply brittani march 26, 2020 wow this was amazing! definitely plan to make again. thank you for sharing. ★★★★★ reply « older comments hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}