we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk techconsumer techspeakers like follow 11 of the best bluetooth speakers whether you need a portable option or plan to stay in one place, are looking for daisy chaining or a boombox, find the wireless speaker for you. share tweet share share best overall choice jbl boombox a strong, powerful speaker that's water resistant and surprisingly easy to transport. $399.95 from amazon best balanced speaker ue boom 2 great balance between power and build, plus daisy chaining makes it super flexible. $99.99 from amazon best speaker for the home bose soundtouch 20 from whole home compatibility to rich sound, this option from bose is great for filling a room. $349 from amazon by kevin billings2020-02-14 20:14:43 utc vvbest deals on bluetooth speakers: doss soundbox touch wireless bluetooth portable speaker — $39.99 beats pill+ portable speaker — 116.99 (save $13) jbl xtreme 2 portable wireless bluetooth speaker — $249.95 808 canz glo bluetooth wireless speaker — $42.22 (save $16.57) bluetooth speakers allow us to experience music no matter where we go. whether it's listening to classical pieces from mozart or the newest bts song 10 times in a row, you shouldn't have to enjoy your favorites through your phone's speaker and a cupholder. but with so many great bluetooth speakers to choose from, how do you know which ones are the best? see also: best cheap laptops: 10 options for under $500 maybe you're an active person who needs a durable speaker for all that hiking or are looking for something to kickstart a whole home audio system. regardless, there are plenty to choose from on amazon. but its not just the kind of speaker that's important, but who is behind that speaker. there are plenty of companies making bluetooth speakers, but there are always those who rise to the top. from sony to bose, these are some of the best bluetooth speakers you can get on amazon right now. (plus, if you're in the market for a black friday, cyber monday, or prime day deal, it's helpful to learn which devices are the best so when the sales start you'll know what to buy.) best sony bluetooth speakers if any company has been able to get its hands into nearly every space of consumer/entertainment tech successfully, its sony. from the playstation to the selection of 4k tvs, sony has been able to make and release products that can be used in every aspect of daily life. and the same quality is found in sony's selection of bluetooth speakers as well. most reliable speaker image: sony the good good overall audio • water resistant design • can link with another xb10 speaker the bad bass could be better • easily attracts dust • can occasionally suffer distortion the bottom line if you need a speaker that's affordable and consistent, the xb10 is the one to look at. 1. sony xb10 if you need a speaker that's affordable and consistent, the xb10 is the one to look at. battery life: 16 hours wireless functionality: bluetooth, nfc water resistant: yes speaker: 1 channel w/ 1 passive radiator $58 from amazon first up from sony is the xb10 portable speaker. this is the type of bluetooth speaker to check out if you are looking at the smaller end of the spectrum. this speaker is able to strike a nice balance between size and power compared to other speakers at this scale, especially as a one channel speaker. one way that's established is the improved bass performance, which can always be a question mark for small speakers. and with a 16-hour lifespan on the battery and waterproof capabilities, you'll definitely get your money's worth. some 71% of users on amazon have been happy with the speaker as well, giving it five stars. m. miller attests to the xb10's quality, saying: "this little pod is a powerhouse for its size. we primarily listen to heavy metal and it actually sounds decent. it’s not like our full blown sound system but we didn’t expect it to. there is definitely a nice balance between the highs & lows. the bluetooth range is fantastic." best affordable speaker image: sony the good solid bass • app features • solid performance for the price • daisy chaining to other sony speakers the bad proprietary charging port • app can be buggy at times the bottom line this ultra portable speaker packs plenty of punch for the price. 2. sony srs-xb30 this ultra portable speaker packs plenty of punch for the price. wireless functionality: bluetooth, nfc battery life: 24 hours phone charging: yes water resistant: yes daisy chain: yes speaker: 2 channel w/ dual passive radiators $127.35 from amazon if you're looking for something that can bump out extra power, the srs-xb30 might be the speaker to look at. it comes sporting some of the typical features, like the waterproof design, allowing for flexible use. that said, the xb30 is a definite step-up in power to the xb10. while the xb10 sports a one channel design, the xb30 uses a dual channel design since its a larger speaker. that also means that the xb30 is louder simply because of the extra audio channel and can make the party that much more enjoyable. it will also be able to last as long as you need it with a 24-hour battery life. currently on amazon, 68% of users have given the xb30 five stars. a reviewer named jake said this about the speaker: "my dad had bought this and used it at work for some time and i followed up and got one of my own. plenty loud and good bass especially considering we work in a loud factory. it works and sounds great, would recommend to anyone who needs a speaker for either their computer, tv or bluetooth for their phone." best speaker for parties image: sony the good deep, powerful audio • daisy chaining • excellent bass • long battery for the size the bad size can be an issue • not water resistant the bottom line if you believe that bigger is better and love to throw parties, this is the best option for you. 3. sony gtkxb90 if you're looking to get the party going, the sony gtkxb90 is the speaker to get people going. wireless function: bluetooth, nfc battery life: 16 hours water resistant: no daisy chain: yes speaker: 3 tweeters w/ 2 subwoofers $348 from amazon while the xb10 and xb30 provide more of a personal touch, sometimes you want something that works in larger and, more importantly, louder settings. that's where the gtkxb90 comes in. the gtkxb90 is definitely on the larger scale for sony's speakers. because of that, it delivers the best acoustic and bass audio thanks to three tweeters and two subwoofers. but don't let the size dissuade you, its still a portable speaker. aside from blasting music, it features a microphone input and chaining that make it ideal for presentations. the battery will last you about 16 hours. some 62% of amazon users have rated it five stars. miles kamaloski praised sony's speaker, saying: "the sound quality and battery life on this is amazing, i definitely recommend this over the other models due to its high battery life and additional speakers. this this is loud and great for listening for yourself or a group of friends due to the dynamic multi-tweeter/subwoofer combination." best jbl bluetooth speakers within the audio space, jbl is one of the oldest and trusted names. the company has released everything from home audio systems to headphones and maintained a level of quality throughout. the same goes for its selection of bluetooth speakers. best portable speaker image: jbl the good solid audio output • water resistant design • easily portable • built-in 3.5mm cable for physical connection the bad low bass output • speaker only has skip forward button • shorter battery life compared to other speakers the bottom line the clip 2 is super portable and reasonably priced, but the button functionality is less than ideal. 4. jbl clip 2 just clip the jbl clip 2 to your belt and enjoy your music with one of the easiest portable speakers to carry around. battery life: 8 hours speaker: mono channel wireless function: bluetooth water resistant: yes $45.99 from amazon the jbl clip 2 is one of jbl's smaller bluetooth speakers. that doesn't mean jbl skimped on features, though. thanks to the body's design, the clip 2 is one of the more durable speakers out there. not only is it waterproof, but the materials will make sure it survives other trials daily life might deliver. it can also be daisy chained with another clip 2 to bump up the sound. and with an 8-hour battery life, it will help pass time during anything from day-long hikes to your bike commute into the office. users on amazon have been happy with the speaker as well. currently, 76% of users have given the speaker five stars, so it definitely delivers where it counts. rick was one of those reviewers, saying: "this speaker is super clear and very loud for its size. it doesn't buzz when you turn it up all the way and has good range from bass to acoustic." best for simplicity image: jbl the good well-rounded audio performance • water resistant • can connect two smart devices the bad no navigation buttons • battery life is shorter compared to other speakers the bottom line the flip 4 provides a loud, solid speaker for anyone who doesn't need all the bells and whistles. 5. jbl flip 4 jbl leans into pure audio performance and removes the physical extras with the jbl flip 4. battery life: 12 hours water resistant: yes wireless connection: bluetooth speaker: stereo $74.90 from amazon the phrase "bigger is better" can be very hit or miss depending on what you're talking about. when it comes to speakers, it can become even more inconsistent. that said, the phrase rings true when it comes to the jbl flip 4. the flip 4 delivers a bigger and better version of the clip 2 speaker. the body is just as durable, making it ideal for group trips to the beach. the battery life is bumped up to 12 hours to make it through a long day out. however, the biggest improvement is in the speaker chaining. the flip 4 features jbl connect+, which allows for up to 100 jbl speakers that also have connect+. with 79% of amazon users rating the flip 4 at five stars, its definitely a quality product. j. hollinger can attest to its quality, saying: "i am a huge fan of jbl bluetooth speakers and this one doesn't disappoint. great sound! i am not a huge fan of lots of bass and this little speaker delivers just the right amount. the higher ends are crisp, clear especially acoustic guitar...my personal favorite. overall a super little speaker that i would recommend to anyone looking for a small portable bluetooth speaker with a long range. love it!" best overall choice image: jbl the good strong general performance • water resistant • surprisingly portable the bad price tag the bottom line a strong, powerful speaker that's water resistant and surprisingly easy to transport. 6. jbl boombox a strong, powerful speaker that's water resistant and surprisingly easy to transport. battery: 24 hours water resistant: yes wireless connection: bluetooth speaker: stereo $399.95 from amazon the third offering from jbl falls on the biggest end of the spectrum. that's the jbl boombox, and it definitely lives up to the name. with it, you can take the party with you anywhere. with a 24-hour battery life, all you have to worry about is providing the music to keep everyone entertained. thankfully, the boombox can be adjusted to deliver the right audio for the setting. switch between indoor and outdoor modes, that way the audio isn't too overwhelming. aside from that, it has key features like the jbl connect+ to connect with other jbl speakers and really get things going. plenty of people have been happy with the jbl boombox, with 78% giving it five stars on amazon. carmen viniegra praised the boombox, saying: "i usually never write reviews and i believe this is my first time writing a review for a product but this speaker was just too amazing for me not to tell everyone about it. the sound is crystal clear and very wonderful and for all you bass lovers, this is the product for you!!! i’m literally in love with the bass because it’s just amazing!! well done jbl!" best ultimate ears bluetooth speakers while ultimate ears might be one of the younger companies in the audio space, it has been able to carve out a place for itself as a viable competitor. these bluetooth speakers may not have all the options that some other companies have, but that hasn't kept ue from delivering quality products. best speaker for the elements image: ue the good plenty of power for the size • water resistant the bad can suffer distortion the bottom line ue delivers a small, portable speaker that's ideal for dealing with anything nature can throw your way. 7. ue wonderboom ue delivers a small, portable speaker that's ideal for dealing with anything nature can throw your way. battery life: 10 hours water resistant: yes wireless connection: bluetooth speaker: mono channel $51 from amazon one way ue has been able to find its place in the market is thanks to a product like the wonderboom. while it may be small, it does pack power into that small body with a best of both approach. now you might be asking, "what's best of both approach?" essentially, it provides durability similar to jbl speakers with the battery and sound quality on par with sony speakers. and similarly to those, it can be paired up with a second wonderboom for that extra oomph. the added bonus is the 100-foot range for bluetooth, so connectivity shouldn't be an issue. with 74% of amazon users giving it five stars, it's definitely proven to be a popular and reliable speaker. annie budash speaks to the quality in their amazon review: "this little guy packs a punch! the sound quality is impeccable for such a small speaker. not to mention that i've never even heard of wonderboom before this purchase. i took a risk in buying it, but it totally paid off. and its waterproof! i'm talking put-it-right-under-the-shower-head-waterproof! so worth every penny." best balanced speaker image: ue the good solid audio performance • rugged body design • daisy chaining to other boom 2 speakers the bad tap controls can be spotty • price can be a turnoff the bottom line a rugged body design and solid audio performance make this speaker an excellent choice. 8. ue boom 2 great balance between power and build, plus daisy chaining makes it super flexible. battery life: 15 hours water resistant: yes speaker: stereo wireless connection: bluetooth, nfc daisy chain: yes $99.99 from amazon if you're looking to scale up from the wonderboom but don't need anything massive, ue has plenty of other choices available. one of the more popular options available is the boom 2. the biggest thing with the ue boom 2 is the connectivity options. this is due to the ultimate ears app, which allows the boom 2 to sync up with another 150 ue speakers that use the app as well. on top of that, the boom 2 also has siri and google now integration that allows for voice controls on the boom 2. and with 71% of amazon users rating the boom 2 at five stars, it shows how successful ue has been at carving out a place in this space. paul s. expressed his pleasure with the boom 2, saying: "i love this speaker, i use it almost daily; while taking a shower or cleaning up around the house. this speaker is loud enough to be heard everywhere. the quality is what you would expect of logitech and the ue series or products. i have the app with the speaker so i can remotely turn it on with bluetooth from another room if i choose to or just scare someone who wasn't expecting it to turn on by itself." best bose bluetooth speakers out of all the brands in the audio space, none have set the standard the way bose has. bose is generally viewed as one of the top companies in the space, delivering products with crisp sound regardless of size. these bluetooth speakers are evidence of that at every scale. best small speaker image: bose the good excellent performance • water resistant • compatible with google home and amazon alexa the bad expensive for the size the bottom line while it may be pricey for the size, the soundlink micro packs a powerful punch. 9. bose soundlink micro the bose soundlink micro offers plenty of power in a small package, with a price tag to match. battery life: 6 hours water resistant: yes speaker: mono channel wireless connection: bluetooth $79 from amazon the first example of bose's quality is the soundlink micro. as the name states, it is on the smaller side — but that doesn't mean its power or features are small too. bose speakers typically deliver when it comes to sound quality, so sound shouldn't be an issue. it also features improved voice integration, since its able to work with alexa, siri, and google assistant devices. and unlike previous speakers, the bose connect app allows the micro to pair up with any compatible bose speaker, and not limit it to the same speaker. with 5-star ratings from 81% of amazon users, plenty of people are happy with it. cj matthews praises the bass and durability saying: "this has huge bass, especially for a bose product. i was totally blown away when i turned this little bad boy up. i love that it is waterproof and it definitely feels rugged. i will not be hesitant to take this biking or out in the woods and i am already turning this on when i wake up in the morning and just bringing into the shower so i don't have to stop listening to my audiobook or music." best for 360-degree audio image: bose the good excellent 360 audio • water resistant • voice assistant ready the bad average battery life the bottom line with rich 360-sound and a durable design, the soundlink revolve lives up to the bose name. 10. bose soundlink revolve whether it's at home or at the beach, the bose soundlink revolve will deliver deep audio wherever you need it. battery life: 12 hours water resistant: yes wireless connection: bluetooth speaker: dual channel $159 from amazon the soundlink revolve by bose is a bigger version of the small speaker mentioned above. bose does a good job of integrating the same features across all bluetooth speakers available. so once you know what you get with one, its simply a question of how big you want to go. that said, with 360-degree sound, the soundlink revolve definitely steps it up from the micro's sound quality. the quality of the revolve is reflected in the 5-star ratings by 76% of amazon users. just take paula's word for it: "this speaker is amazing!! bought it for listening to pandora at the lake and don’t regret spending the money at all. until you hear it, you’d never believe such remarkable sound could come out of a little speaker. crisp, sharp tones, hold a charge good enough to listen all day long. well worth the price." best speaker for the home image: bose the good excellent audio performance • can join whole home audio network • selection of music apps and services • smart home compatible the bad not portable • not many music services past big names like itunes and spotify the bottom line whether you're building a whole home network or just want a powerful speaker for the kitchen, the soundtouch 20 is excellent. 11. bose soundtouch 20 from whole home compatibility to rich sound, this option from bose is great for filling a room. battery life: not portable speaker: dual channel wireless connections: bluetooth, wi-fi water resistant: no $349 from amazon one area that bose is able to set itself apart from other brands is home audio. currently, bose is a reliable name when it comes to whole home audio thanks to the soundtouch line, and the soundtouch 20 is an excellent place to start. unlike the other bluetooth speakers on this list, the soundtouch 20 is not intended as a portable speaker. but that's not what this speaker is meant for. it can connect to wifi, allowing direct access to services like pandora and spotify without a bluetooth connection. there's also integration with echo devices, allowing for multi-room control from one speaker. and if you choose to grow the system, it can work in tandem with other soundtouch speakers. with 56% of users giving it five stars on amazon, the soundtouch 20 is definitely a speaker that delivers. alice says as much in this review: "so happy that i finally bought this little baby. i live in a large nyc apartment and i want to be able to listen to my music throughout the apartments. the sound quality of this little thing surprised me. i turn it on whenever i am home and can’t get enough of it. great little machine!" topics: bluetooth speakers, mashable deals, sony, speakers, tech, ultimate ears related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound heads up: all products featured here are selected by mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. if you buy something, mashable may earn an affiliate commission. related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.