we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk techconsumer techkitchen & home like follow why instant pots are the best: here's everything you need to know waiting hours for dinner sucks. having no counter space sucks. only knowing how to make toast sucks. thank goodness for the instant pot. share tweet share share most size options 7-in-1 instant pot duo nova the same best-selling duo that everyone loved, now with a steam release valve that you can't forget to close. $99.99 from amazon best for control freaks 10-in-1 instant pot ultra your best option for a higher-end instant pot, the "ultra" button lets you control all parts of the cooking process. $149.95 from amazon best for air frying 11-in-1 instant pot duo crisp instant pot finally answers the ninja foodi competition with a solid air frying pressure cooker and 100% removable lids. $149.99 from amazon editors independently select all products and services featured here. if you buy something through our links, we may receive a commission. by leah stodart2020-03-09 20:27:13 utc best deals on instant pots: instant pot gem 8-in-1 programmable multicooker (6-quart) — $59 (save $20) instant pot duo60 — $64.99 (save $14.01) the pioneer woman instant pot duo60 6-quart — $89.99 instant pot duo80 8-quart — $97.96 (save $52.03) instant pot duo mini 3-quart 7-in-1 multi-use — $59.99 (save $20) instant pot (noun): the intelligent pressure cooker that can replace numerous kitchen appliances while cooking in a fraction of the time, and is quite possibly the most important technological advancement in recent history. spacex is a close second. this little cooker creates a special kind of chaos over black friday, with the instant pot duo being one of the top 20 best-selling items on black friday 2018 and 2019. (our prediction for 2020? the duo nova is going to steal the spotlight.) what does an instant pot do? translation: why can't i just get a regular slow cooker? instant pots use 70 percent less energy than the average pressure cooker, but somehow cook food, as their title states, instantly — well, 2-10 times faster, but it's the closest to instant you're gonna get. but they're also slow cookers. crazy, right? this means that dishes that traditionally need all night to cook can be ready in 20 minutes, which makes the torture of impatiently waiting to eat far less painful, and saves you from the "screw it, let's get takeout" mindset after a long day. all instant pots can pressure cook, slow cook, sauté, cook rice, steam, and warm, and as you climb the ladder of different models, buttons for things like cake making, roasting, and sous vide appear. when one appliance can do so many things, it also nixes the need to purchase and find storage for a separate kitchen devices, like a slow cooker or egg cooker. see also: instant pot vs. ninja foodi: how to compare these trendy cooking devices don't believe us? ask people who already have one: almost every model is an amazon's choice product with near perfect ratings, so it's not hard to see why everyone and their mother wants to get their hands on one. what is hard, however, is choosing the right instant pot for you. with multiple series, cooking functions, quart sizes, but virtually identical appearances, it's easy to go into "wtf" mode. never fear: mashable deals is here, and we're so creepily obsessed with the instant pot that we could answer instant pot trivia questions in our sleep. instant pots rock because models ladder up in skill and price: each model gains a new cooking method, so you aren't paying for functions you won't use. most instant pots on the market (even the new ones from late 2019) are part of the third generation. the most significant marker of this class is ip's most advanced microprocessor technology, which provides readings of pressure and temperature from built-in monitors, making previously complex (annoying) cooking tasks possible through a variety of smart programs. the fourth generation is called the connected cooker and applies to any instant pots with smartphone app compatibility. even that's a bit ahead of its time, as there is currently only one wifi-enabled instant pot. this collection of programs can be tweaked and tailored to perform super specific tasks that you may have struggled with pre-instant pot (e.g., the perfect way to cook rice). these programs get down to the nitty gritty of heat intensity, pressure, and cooking duration to achieve consistent results in the kitchen. some of the more advanced models even offer personalized programming and will remember your settings for the next time. if you want to dive deep into the land of instant pot recipe inspiration, check out the #instantpot hashtag on instagram or peruse more instant pot recipes here. and, if you're that person who can never get enough of this internet sensation, don't miss this story on how robert wang started the instant pot empire after getting laid off from his job. before we dive in to which models are the best, here are some general rules that apply across the board: the number in each instant pot's title, e.g. "6-in-1" describes the number of kitchen appliances it claims to replace. aside from the appliance-replacing functions, each model has built-in smart programs that get more specific: these 12 programs are bean/chili, meat/stew, soup/broth, sauté, poultry, steam, congee, multigrain, rice, pressure cook, warm, and slow cook. some models have more than this, but every model has at least these. they're the things listed on the buttons. watch out for that steam release valve. this is something that you don't really learn until you pressure cook for the first time and become super scared when hot steam bursts out of the lid. we suggest using a spatula or wooden spoon to release this, or opt for a model that has the new automatic sealing lid and steam release button. the 6-quart is the most-purchased size and is ideal for families of five or less, and every model comes in this size. the 3-quart is obviously best for smaller families or dishes like dips or soups, and the 8-quart is best for roasts or prepping a few days' worth of meals for large families. only one model is available in the 10-quart size, and it's probably overkill unless you're straight up replacing an oven or stove with it (say, if you're renovating your kitchen and won't have access to your large appliances for months). be sure to take your counter and storage space into account before taking the plunge. all prices listed will be the lowest price for each model, likely the smallest size. as quart size increases, prices of each model will also increase. instant pots are on sale constantly. the price we'll list is the full price, but if you're lucky (you probably will be), you'll click on a model to see that the price has dropped for the day. so, how many different instant pots are there? good question. if you're counting all of instant pot's devices including appliances outside pressure cookers, there are a lot. if you're only counting pressure cookers, it's still pretty confusing — especially after instant pot added multiple new models in late 2019. we'll outline all the differences below and walk you through the various models. make sure to hit the grey arrow to expand each card and read more. best for newbies image: instant pot the good most affordable of the line • great deal for number of features • learning the ropes is so easy the bad no yogurt option • no low pressure setting the bottom line if you don't care about making yogurt, the lux is handy, straightforward option for the lowest price. 6-in-1 instant pot lux people who will only use their instant pot occasionally can save by opting for the lux, which doesn't make yogurt. functions: pressure cooking, slow cooking, rice cooking, steaming, warming, sautéing sizes: 3 quart, 6 quart, 8 quart new lid with safe steam valve features: no $59.95 from amazon let's kick things off with the basics: the instant pot lux: 6-in-1 programmable cooker is the simplest of the bunch, though "simple" is a relative term when a cooker combines the functions of six appliances. the lux is a pressure cooker, slow cooker, rice cooker, steamer, warmer, and sauté pan. it's one of the rare models that does not make yogurt, which is the main reason for the price cut. but if you wouldn't be making yogurt anyway, it's nice that instant pot won't make you pay for a function you won't use. as expected from the most affordable option, the lux's appearance sees no fancy stuff, featuring a red and black screen with numerous buttons to adjust the settings. it's not the prettiest of the bunch, but for the price, it gets the job done and more. the lux doesn't have a "low pressure" option, so it's high pressure or the highway. non-sale prices are as follows: get the 3-quart model for $59.95, the 6-quart model for $79, and the 8-quart model for $109.95. budget pick image: instant pot the good yogurt maker • unbeatable combo of features and price the bad "manual" button for pressure cooking is confusing the bottom line a best seller, the duo offers the best combo of features while keeping the price and learning curve down. 7-in-1 instant pot duo it's hard to pass up the no-frills layout and yogurt making of the duo, especially when it's on sale so frequently. functions: pressure cooking, slow cooking, rice cooking, steaming, warming, sautéing, and yogurt making sizes: 3-quart, 6-quart, and 8-quart new lid with safe steam valve features: no $79 from amazon this is the model that caused the black friday stampede. the 7-in-1 duo is a cult favorite and one of instant pot's all-time best sellers — and though its "successor," the instant pot duo nova, comes with an extra safety feature and cooler screen, anyone who prefers a more straightforward approach may prefer the classic duo. the loyalty to the duo lies in its combination of function, simplicity, and price. it's a slight step up from the lux function-wise, as it adds the yogurt-making function to total in seven appliance functions. it also features the same 12 built-in smart features as the lux. aside from the yogurt button, paying $10 or $20 extra also gets you more one-touch controls, including the ability to switch between high and low pressure cooking. the duo and the lux are basically identical on the outside, but the duo adds more customization while still staying in a really affordable zone. non-sale prices are as follows: get the 3-quart model for $79.95, the 6-quart model for $99.95, and the 8-quart model for $139.95. most size options image: instant pot the good comes in four sizes • new lid with a steam release valve that closes automatically • on-screen progress indicator • steam release button keeps fingers away from stream the bad expensive for just a few upgrades from the duo the bottom line the best-selling instant pot, the duo, gets a slick upgrade with an automatic steam valve and a 10-quart option. 7-in-1 instant pot duo nova the same best-selling duo that everyone loved, now with a steam release valve that you can't forget to close. functions: pressure cooking, slow cooking, rice cooking, steaming, warming, sautéing, and yogurt making sizes: 3, 6, 8, and 10-quart new lid with safe steam valve features: yes $99.99 from amazon sticking "nova" on the end of the best-known instant pot is enough to throw people off, but the duo nova is just the new-and-improved version of the duo. it keeps the stuff we loved about the original — like straightforward buttons and seven cooking methods for an affordable price — and made some small convenience upgrades. the best part is that the duo nova can almost always be found on sale for the same price (sometimes cheaper) than the regular duo. psa: the only big difference between the duo and duo nova is that the nova's lid has automatic pressure sealing that closes the valve for you. that darn release valve is an annoyance you don't even understand until you use an instant pot in real life. accidentally leaving it on "venting" instead of "sealing" means you might come back to a meal that should have been cooking for 30 minutes, but was just letting air out the whole time. (there are reddit threads devoted to people complaining about forgetting to do this.) it's minor, but it'll be a lot of people's deciding factor. everything about the led display is a little bit sleeker, too, with more legible icons and a status bar with progress updates on the current stage of pressurizing, cooking, or keeping warm. its actual cooking capabilities are the exact same as the duo, as no new functions were introduced with this model. get the 3-quart for $79.99, the 6-quart for $99.99 (frequently on sale for $69.95), the 8-quart for $119.95, or the 10-quart for $139.95. the 10-quart is a new instant pot size that was introduced in 2019, and it's huge. best for families image: instant pot the good adds three new appliance functions for a small price • cooking progress indicator • bigger, blue lcd screen • sous vide smart program the bad complaints of malfunctioning lid and seal the bottom line the best-selling duo plus offers the variety of recipe possibilities that you want with the none of the bells and whistles you don't. 9-in-1 instant pot duo plus the most advanced model without a dial adds three new functions and sous vide at a decent price. functions: pressure cooking, slow cooking, rice cooking, steaming, warming, sautéing, yogurt making, egg cooking, sterilizing, cake making sizes: 3 quart, 6 quart, 8 quart new lid with safe steam valve features: no $119.95 from amazon the classic, but make it even better: the other #1 best-seller in the fam is the 9-in-1 duo plus. for a decently small price jump, the plus series adds an egg cooker, a bottle sterilizer, and a cake maker to your list of possibilities, plus a sous vide smart program. it's a pretty small price to ask for such an all-encompassing cooker, especially considering the fact that the duo nova launched with a decent price jump over the duo despite not having a single new appliance function. as we continue to climb up the ladder of instant pots, devices with more advanced functions also seem to get shinier and more spaceship-like. the duo plus features a larger, blue lcd screen, digital food status icons, and more self-explanatory buttons for each smart program. it's the model that keeps the classic instant pot interface while providing more detailed buttons than the models below it. non-sale prices are as follows: get the 3-quart for $99.95, 6-quart for $129.95, and 8-quart for $159.95. best for control freaks image: instant pot the good twist-and-click knob for controls • "ultra" button lets you manually choose pressure, temperature, and time • altitude adjustment for homes at an elevation above 2,000 feet • almost never full price the bad some reviews mention that it doesn't seal • learning curve and lack of instructions the bottom line the kickoff of ipd's "smart" models, the ultra lets foodies experiment with settings and then remembers those settings. 10-in-1 instant pot ultra your best option for a higher-end instant pot, the "ultra" button lets you control all parts of the cooking process. functions: pressure cooking, slow cooking, rice cooking, sautéing, steaming, warming, yogurt making, sterilizing, egg cooking, and customizable programming sizes: 3-quart, 6-quart, and 8-quart new lid with safe steam valve features: no $149.95 from amazon anything that's "ultra" just sounds cooler, and the instant pot ultra is definitely that. experienced cook and second-time instant pot buyers like that the ultra allows for more customization and experimenting instead of being locked into the built-in settings. (psa: there is no ultra pro. just the ultra. this is it.) the overhaul to the interface makes it obvious that the ultra is not in the same lane as its no-frills siblings. the sleek dial and a switch from buttons to controls that mimic a touch screen let it blend seamlessly with a kitchen full of modern appliances, but the interface update that you should really care about lies in the bottom right corner of the display: the ultra button. with it, nit-picky foodies can tamper with every part of the cooking process from pressure level, to temperature, to time settings. once you find a combination that renders your desired results, the program can remember those settings for next time. the blue lcd screen on its own looks like it was designed by nasa, but that seems even more appropriate when you consider the altitude adjustment feature. air pressure and boiling point are lower at higher elevations (2,000 feet above sea level is a good baseline) and therefore take longer to pressure cook. while this usually requires a conversion chart and some math, this ultra feature figures it out for you. non-sale prices starting at $119.95 for the mini, $149.95 for the 6-quart, and $179.95 for the 8-quart. best for canning image: instant pot the good new sous vide and canning functions • nicest looking of the bunch • touchscreen and modern controls the bad lacks some basic preset cooking modes • pricey for the quality • only one size option the bottom line the new functions are cool yet premature, and their quality plus a touchscreen don't justify the price over older models. instant pot max its major upgrades include two new appliance functions: sous vide and pressure canning, along with the expected functions of its predecessors. functions: pressure cooking, slow cooking, rice cooking, sautéing, steaming, warming, yogurt making, sterilizing, egg cooking, sous vide, and pressure canning sizes: 6-quart new lid with safe steam valve features: yes $149.99 from amazon the latest to hit the shelves is the highly anticipated instant pot max, which finally debuted in the fall of 2018. its major upgrades include two new appliance functions: sous vide and pressure canning, along with the expected functions of its predecessors (they say it has "unlimited" functions, but it's more like 12-in-1.) the max also uses nutriboost technology, which claims to use a boiling motion to add nutrition and flavor to soups and broths. (we're quite skeptical about that, to be honest.) the presence of these new functions is one thing, but whether they actually work and justify the price boost is another. publishers like cnet weren't overly impressed with the new additions, mentioning that the sous vide isn't accurate enough to be trusted with such a precision-heavy cooking. the canning method's apparent 15 psi is also iffy. one new addition that is appreciated is the automatic pressure release valve. let's focus on something positive for a sec: those aesthetics, though. like the ultra, it features a sleek lcd screen with functions on the screen rather than on buttons along the outside. unlike the ultra, it's the first instant pot with a touchscreen, offering seamless controlling and a futuristic look. it looks expensive, but in a good way — so if you're not happy with the added functions, it'll at least look nice sitting on your counter. right now, it only comes in a 6-quart model for $199.95. best for unpredictable schedules image: instant pot the good away-from-home control with wifi and an app • user-friendly face the bad limited functions for the price • only one size option the bottom line for those who love the smart home market, the wifi series offers maximum away-from-home convenience. instant pot smart wi-fi series enjoy the same classic buttons as the instant pot duo plus the convenience of cooking via your smartphone. functions: pressure cooking, slow cooking, rice cooking, sautéing, steaming, warming, and yogurt making sizes: 6-quart new lid with safe steam valve features: no $126.89 from amazon smart homes are taking over, with nearly every home electronic category having at least one app-enabled model because, well, of course they do. lights, vacuums, and even toothbrushes are among that list — and you thought instant pot would shy away from getting in on the action? as if. an upgraded version from the discontinued bluetooth series, the 7-in-1 instant pot smart wifi cooker was made for tech-savvy people who already control everything else via smartphone. get ready to up your kitchen's brainpower: while the seven functions aren't anything we've never seen before, the main focus here is the connected convenience. with the instant pot app, users can program complex cooking steps into the recipe scripts through their phone or tablet, alter temperature or thickening, browning, or simmering settings, monitor progress, or schedule meals. cooking when you're not even home is now magically possible. did we mention that the app also has over 750 recipes to access? you don't even have to wade through pinterest. plus, for being one of the first app-enabled slow cookers on the market, it has amazing reviews. people really hold that away-from-home control power dear. non-sale prices are as follows: the 6-quart model is currently the only size available, going for $149.99. best for rectangular roasts image: instant pot the good unique rectangular shape for different recipes • extra powerful heating element for roasts and baking • sous vide function better than the max the bad this is not a pressure cooker the bottom line a staple for roast lovers, the auro pro's unique shape and sous vide function makes recipe possibilities even more endless. instant pot aura pro for meals or roasts that need to be flat, the rectangular aura fits what cylindrical models can't. functions: slow cooking, steaming, stewing, sautéing, warming, baking, roasting, yogurt making, multigrain, and sous vide sizes: 6-quart and 8-quart new lid with safe steam valve features: no $139.46 from amazon if you're as into meat roasts as guy fieri or as into casseroles as that one coworker at the office potluck, the 11-in-1 instant pot aura pro will likely be your #1 player. (this is the upgraded version of the discontinued 8-in-1 instant pot gem, which is still available at walmart.) the aura pro offers the some of the same beloved appliance benefits such as slow cooking, rice cooking, roasting, steaming, sautéing, warming, and yogurt making, and sees unique functions such as baking, sous vide, and a multigrain mode. the best part? the sous vide function actually works. according to numerous amazon reviews and full reviews by publishers, water is reliably held at a precise, customizable temperature throughout and, though it doesn't circulate water like a real sous vide machine (and doesn't claim to) it gets the job done and is a great alternative to the shortcomings of the max. while every other model in the lineup is cylindrical, the aura is the rectangular cousin designed for cooking larger chickens, ducks, or other roasts, as well as casseroles and bakes that need to lay flat, grilling racks, and sous vide set ups. it's armed with a 1500w heating element — one of the highest in the multicooker category to provide optimal searing, roasting, and baking, in tandem with the continual monitoring of time and temperature to keep heating consistent. you'll feel like a professional chef for sure. similar to the ultra and the max, the gem remembers your most recent cooking settings, so if you finally get your roasting technique down, you don't have to worry about losing those perfectly tailored settings. there's also a "24-hour delay" option with an automatic "keep warm" function once cooking time is complete. prices and sizes are as follows: for $129.95 and the 8-quart model for $149.95. can you air fry in an instant pot? you sure can — long as you pick the right model. where the ninja foodi and its crisping lid once had a leg up is now the spot that instant pot is seemingly focusing on. instant pot's fall 2019 collection brought the instant pot duo crisp (and the instant vortex, a devoted air fryer oven that's not a pressure cooker). for folks who already have an instant pot and don't want to replace it just to buy the duo crisp, instant pot released a standalone air fryer lid that attaches to regular instant pots and turns them into an air fryer. this lid works on all existing models with the exception of the instant pot smart wifi, duo evo plus, duo sv, or max. if you're still confused about what air frying even is, read up about the best air fryers here. best for air frying image: instant pot the good can pressure cook then air fry meat in the same pot • both lids are detachable • double-layered air fryer basket the bad holds less than advertised capacity • included instruction guide is worthless for air frying • no rice, egg, cake, or yogurt function the bottom line it took a while, but the first true pressure cooking and air frying instant pot crisps well and is wildly versatile. 11-in-1 instant pot duo crisp instant pot finally answers the ninja foodi competition with a solid air frying pressure cooker and 100% removable lids. functions: pressure cooking, slow cooking, steaming, dehydrating, sous vide, sautéing, air frying, roasting, baking, broiling, and warming sizes: 8-quart new lid with safe steam valve features: yes $149.99 from amazon the ninja foodi is shaking, honey. after a rather undercooked release of the instant vortex and vortex plus, the duo crisp came out as instant pot's first true pressure cooker and air fryer combination. and it rocked the kitchen gadget world. the convenience of not having to switch appliances to complete multiple steps in a recipe can't be overstated. a blogger at the salted pepper mentions how easy the duo crisp made a ribs recipe: the pressure cooking lid can be used to speed up the thawing and thorough cooking of frozen meat, and a simple lid swap lets you air fry in the same exact pot. for anyone with limited counter space, minimal storage, or no oven at all, it's a genius hack. intensive meals like roasts, which usually take all day, no longer have to be some big, intimidating saturday meal. the fact that the crisping lid and regular lid are both completely removable is an automatic win over the ninja foodi. the foodi's pressure cooking lid is attached via hinges and flips up when the air fryer lid is on, and if you have cabinets over your countertops, it's a real pain. the duo crisp's pressure cooking lid features the same automatic steam valve lock that the duo nova has. the chaotic interface with a button for every single smart program is gone. though the duo crisp is technically in the duo series, it doesn't have the recognizable black and red screen, rocks an all-silver display, and only has buttons for the 11 core functions. the dry methods (bake, broil, roast, dehydrate, and air fry) that require the air fry lid are clearly separated from the others. best toaster oven replacement image: instant pot the good food can lay flat or rotate • door is removable for cleaning • reminds you when to flip your food the bad feels more like a toaster oven • baking takes too much trial and error the bottom line instant pot's first stab at air frying brings hands-off rotisserie cooking and tons of functions to go way beyond simply crisping. instant vortex plus instant pot expands their product line with an air fryer that can rotate poultry and dehydrate fruit. sizes: 6-quart and 10-quart functions: air fry, roast, broil, bake, reheat, rotate, and dehydrate new lid with safe steam valve features: n/a $107.50 from amazon instant pot is the single most revolutionary cooking brand of the last 20 years and we're willing to die on that hill. the instant pot's speedy cooking and ability to perform multiple appliance functions in one completely changed the slow cooker game — but why stop there? in july 2019, the foodie world was blessed with the instant vortex plus, a 7-in-1 air fryer so versatile it sounds made up. instead of the typical pull-out basket design, the vortex takes on the shape of a toaster oven. the overhead heating element and motorized fan rapidly blow air from every direction, effectively eliminating the need for oil by 95%. three trays inside allow snacks to be spread out for even crispiness and can be air fried, baked, or broiled. but there's another function we haven't seen much of before: a rotisserie basket. swap the trays out for a rotating cage to roast a whole chicken, toss wings, or make golden-brown fries without pausing to flip. not only does this mean less work for you, but the omnipresent heat on all sides can reduce cooking times by 20%. that touchscreen, though. use the led display to select time and temperature, or choose from preset cooking programs to find the right settings for your recipe. when you land on the combo that finally yields those perfect results, the vortex will remember for a fine-tuned meal every time. non-sale prices start at $79.95 for the 6-quart vortex and $119 for the 10-quart vortex plus. honorable mention the slickest rice cooker you ever did see is actually one of the most reliable rice, risotto, and quinoa cookers on the market. it's not a pressure cooker, but many of the 12 grain presets are ones you won't see on a regular instant pot. best for grains image: instant pot the good rice doesn't stick to the bottom • presets for difficult recipes like risotto • much cheaper than other instant pot models the bad instruction guide is vague the bottom line specified grain settings for testy foods like risotto make the zest a must-have for side dishes. instant pot zest nail the perfect rice or quinoa consistency every time without waiting around to stir. functions: white rice, brown rice, steam, quinoa, oatmeal, mixed grains, barley, couscous, bulgur oatmeal and risotto sizes: 8-cup and 20-cup new lid with safe steam valve features: n/a $29.99 from amazon rice is one of the easiest side dishes to pair with a meal and, coincidentally, one of the easiest dishes to screw up. the instant pot zest could save you from a lot of overcorrections to sticky rice, as well as add perfect quinoa, couscous, steamed veggies, and dumplings to your home menu. delicious.com investigated the mystery behind why rice is so hard to cook. according to a few chefs that were interviewed, evaporation is the culprit. too much or too little evaporation happens with lids that don't fit on the pot and instructions for water and heat that aren't one-size-fits-all. the zest's locking lid nixes the sealing problem and the presets take out the preparation guesswork. one reviewer asserts that the zest is easier than instant rice. (easier than instant. rice.) just press the white or brown rice button, close the lid, and come back when it beeps. the 20-cup zest plus is where you can really add some zest to your meals. mixed grains, barley, couscous, bulgur oatmeal and risotto are added to the lineup, plus four smart programs for sauté, steam, slow cook, and keep warm. you can even cook quinoa on the bottom while using the steam basket simultaneously. the fact that the instant pot zest is so successfully hands off is a good thing, because the one mild complaint that users can agree on is that the instruction manual isn't helpful. however, we guess you could assume that the instructions are for an 8-cup or 20-cup batch (whichever model you got) and halve the recipe if you want less. non-sale prices start at $29.99 for the 8-cup zest, $39.99 for the 20-cup zest, or $59.99 for the 20-cup zest plus. topics: food, food preparation, home, instant-pot, kitchen, mashable deals, tech related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound heads up: all products featured here are selected by mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. if you buy something, mashable may earn an affiliate commission. related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.