wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » themes best wordpress themes tutorials wpbeginner offers some of the best wordpress themes tutorials that teaches you how to extend the power of your wordpress theme. how to add custom fonts in wordpress posted on march 12th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to add custom fonts in wordpress? custom fonts allow you to use beautiful combination of different fonts on your website to improve typography and user experience. apart from looking good, custom fonts can also help you improve readability, create a brand image,… read more » how to update a wordpress theme without losing customization posted on october 16th, 2019 by editorial staff one of the best things about wordpress is the easy customization options that you get with wordpress themes and plugins. you can also take these customizations to the next level by adding your own code snippets and css styles to your wordpress theme. the problem… read more » how to easily add icon fonts in your wordpress theme posted on september 25th, 2019 by editorial staff do you want to add icon fonts on your wordpress site? recently one of our readers asked what’s the easiest way to add icon fonts in their wordpress theme? icon fonts allow you to add vector (resizable) icons without slowing down your website. they are… read more » how to create a custom home page in wordpress posted on august 28th, 2019 by editorial staff you may see many websites on the web using a custom homepage for their wordpress. in this tutorial we will show you how you can create a custom homepage by combining the use of custom page template, and wordpress admin panel. the complete social media cheat sheet for wordpress (updated) posted on august 5th, 2019 by editorial staff if you are serious about your website or blog, then you simply can’t ignore social media. the problem is that each of these platforms has different requirements for cover photos, profile image, article cover, etc. this makes it quite overwhelming for new users to get… read more » beginner’s guide to wordpress template hierarchy (cheat sheet) posted on may 13th, 2019 by editorial staff after our infographic on how wordpress works behind the scenes, several users asked us to cover how a wordpress theme works behind the scenes. in this article, we will explain the wordpress template hierarchy for beginners. this cheat sheet is extremely useful when customizing a… read more » how to remove author name from wordpress posts (2 easy ways) posted on march 28th, 2019 by editorial staff do you want to remove the author name from your wordpress blog posts? normally, blog posts are supposed to show author name with other meta-data like date and category. however, some blog owners may not want to display the author name next to their blog… read more » how to easily create a custom wordpress theme (without any code) posted on march 25th, 2019 by editorial staff do you want to create a custom wordpress theme from scratch? in the past, you had to follow the wordpress codex and have a decent coding knowledge to build a custom wordpress theme. but thanks to new wordpress theme generators, now anyone can create a… read more » how to style the wordpress comment form (ultimate guide) posted on october 2nd, 2018 by editorial staff do you want to change the style of wordpress comment form on your website? comments play an important role in building user engagement on a website. a good-looking user-friendly comment form encourages users to participate in discussion. that’s why we have created the ultimate guide… read more » how to add a gdpr comment privacy opt-in checkbox in wordpress posted on may 25th, 2018 by editorial staff do you want to add a comment privacy optin checkbox in wordpress? european union’s new gdpr law requires explicit consent for storing user’s personal information. if you have comments enabled on your website, then you need to add a comment privacy checkbox to comply with… read more » 1 2 3 … 14 » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.