skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » beautiful wordpress bookstore themes for selling books and e-books 2020 beautiful wordpress bookstore themes for selling books and e-books 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars theme collections 44 comments here are the most amazing wordpress bookstore themes to help you sell e-books and hardcover books online. with amazon and other online book stores slowly taking over the publishing world and bookstores everywhere closing left and right, it is safe to say that now is the right time to bring your bookstore online. only a tiny fraction of current local bookstores will survive due to increasing costs, while amazon and others are pushing down their prices to a minimum. amazon has changed the image of bookstores forever, and you should follow this e-commerce madness by creating online bookstores to sell hardcover books or e-books. while many experts believe that the ipad, kindle, and other tablets and e-readers will take over the hardcover book market, there is still a strong belief that physical book copies will always be in people’s hearts. there are those who still love to read regular books because it’s healthier to the eyes and because these books are easier to read and won’t break when dropped. today, we decided to create a versatile list of the best bookstore and e-book selling themes. most of these themes are powered by woocommerce, but there are plenty of other e-commerce platforms available for wordpress. we strongly believe that you will be able to find below the theme you have always wanted to take your business to entirely new levels of success. without further hesitation let’s have a look at the best bookstore wordpress themes you can install now. kalium whether you are an author or simply a bookseller, do yourself a favor and check out the impressive kalium. with this wordpress bookstore theme, you can start on the web sooner rather than later. let’s face it, you avoid the majority of work with kalium. it brings to the table all the necessities for a quick start of a fresh website. it is a multi-functional solution for crafting nearly any page you fancy. also, kalium comes with a drag and drop page building technique which unlocks a whole new horizon of possibilities. especially if you do not know how to code, wpbakery page builder will come very handy. other goodies include revolution slider, acf pro, rtl support, outstanding performance and 100% responsive layout. for your information, kalium also comes in 16 languages, though you can still translate it into other languages. more info / download demo bebo as a wordpress theme for bookstores, libraries, and publisher websites, bebo is deeply customizable and technologically articulate. the theme is convenient and feature-rich for authors, publishers, writers, editors, and everyone in the book, cd, dvd, and e-book industries. it’s a perfect all-in-one outlet for anyone and everyone who needs to market literary works to the world at large in a direct, customer-friendly fashion, forgoing the troublesome apparatus of third-party distribution for a sleek, reliable personal shop right on your website, so you can truly be in control of your sales! moreover, bebo is very customizable and includes seven conceptually distinct and unique homepages, which you can use as-is or fine-tune to your precise expectations and requirements. it also includes the premium wpbakery page builder plugin, as well as the revolution slider, on top of advanced technologies like ajax-filtered searches, ajax loading, and beautiful headers with user-friendly mega menus. bebo is also woocommerce-compatible, with plenty of custom shop styles. let bebo spread your word! more info / download demo aurum aurum is a sleek wordpress bookstore theme designed to facilitate the user’s shopping experience. it is easy to use and install, as the interface is very intuitive. as is the case with many commercial themes, aurum incorporates the acclaimed woocommerce plugin, allowing the creation of an impressive online store. this theme is useful in a variety of situations, and it can enhance the websites of online shops, bookstores, boutiques, tech stores, jewelry and clothing stores, and so on. aurum is designed to work with all major web browsers, including chrome, safari, firefox, opera, and internet explorer 9-11. upon installation, it offers you some pre-built website variants that already look great, though should you want to design your own skin, you can do so with ease. currently, this theme has four demo variations, with more to come in the future. some themes might have issues with cross-platform compatibility, but not aurum. it supports touchscreen functionality, doesn’t freeze or lose resolution when you resize, and is accessible on both desktop and mobile devices. in addition, the support system of this bookstore theme truly stands out due to the dedicated and eager staff. regardless of the nature of your question, you should not hesitate to ask. also consider the expansive theme documentation, which can really inform you of what’s going on. aurum is further able to support plugins in multiple languages, making your content and products more accessible to other demographics. it includes rtl support for languages such as hebrew and arabic. more info / download demo chapterone with the six ready-made demos, chapterone is a striking wordpress bookstore theme for your fresh new project. and if you are redesigning your existing website, by all means, make it happen with the eye-catchy and lovely chapterone. the web design is very appealing to the eyes, making sure it puts on display all your books and publications in the best possible light. chapterone is also responsive and mobile-ready, so the performance stays of the same amazing quality across all devices. a great deal of other amenities awaits every chapterone user, too, to ensure speedy and spectacular creation of a bookstore website. from index and internal page layouts to shortcodes, custom backgrounds, header styles, smooth scrolling and social sharing, it is all there. make the books you will sell online shine and come in the right hands. more info / download demo scientia scientia is a flexible library and bookstore wordpress theme that anyone can profit from. and by anyone, i truly do mean anyone. in other words, you do not need to have any experience with building pages and still make it happen. with the use of scientia, you need to undergo very little work to bring into fruition a top-notch end product that will move mountains. bear in mind, if you stick to the out of the box look, you can have it all set within minutes. scientia comes with wpbakery page builder, slider revolution, online booking system, donations, events calendar and all sorts of other special perks. you can customize it all, including header and footer sections. introduce social sharing, start a compelling blog and enjoy the steady growth of your new bookstore website. more info / download demo printpress when you would like to push books online, printpress is the wordpress bookstore theme to look into. instead of doing all the hard work from the ground up, stick to a resourceful theme and enjoy smooth page execution. sometimes, you just want to take a smart and strategic shortcut that realizes a dream website in a little breeze. and that shortcut is the amazing and impressive printpress. it takes care of all and everything, so you can just mix and match what’s at your service and call it a day. other features that will benefit your greatly are custom shortcodes, animations, form builder, mega menu, color management and attractive portfolio layouts. your printpress-based bookstore page will also operate without a hitch on all devices, web browsers and retina screens. get the traction going right away and boost your business through the roof. more info / download demo goodstore goodstore is a dynamic and fully responsive bookstore wordpress theme with the finest features and options fit for an e-commerce site. it supports woocommerce integration, which enables you to set up a functional online store. and with revolution slider, you can create attention-grabbing slideshows and presentations. in addition, this theme comes with ads management, eight positions by default, ad placement between posts, and advanced layout options. goodstore provides a strong and responsive framework for your e-commerce site. while this theme doesn’t have books in it, it can sell any tangible goods, such as books and other printed materials. more info / download demo digiseller this charming and versatile wordpress bookstroe theme can give you a competitive edge, thanks to its practical features. regardless of your technical expertise, you will be able to create a successful bookstore website, with digiseller. there’s no need to hire a web development company as long as you can easily import demo content via the “easy install” button. it will also install sample data, preparing the page for use. thanks to this feature, you can swiftly create a profitable store. to participate in online commerce, you only need to list your items and specify the payment gateway details. there is no sales number limit, so feel free to get rich. of course, a quality bookstore website must be well-organized. thankfully, you can set up many categories and subcategories, making it easier for clients to browse your selections. it’s also possible to commercialize any other type of digital item, including video games or music files. if the checkout process is long and extensive, customers can easily lose interest. digiseller has reduced the number of checkout steps, helping to streamline the experience of the users. in addition, both mobile and desktop device users will get to access your bookstore website with ease. more info / download demo mybook if you want to create an excellent bookstore website, be sure to check out mybook. it is a reliable and professional wordpress theme that promises to enhance every aspect of your page. mybook can accommodate all users regardless of their device preference. it can showcase your selections on tablets, laptops, smartphones, and desktop pcs. as you upload covers or any other kind of image, it will automatically resize to fit the designated frame; manual adjustments are not required. with this theme, your bookstore site can and will offer exciting design elements such as blocks. this makes it easier to personalize the page, given that every block includes sample data. if you’ve made an error or if you do not like the direction in which your site is going, you have the option to reset every block. to tease upcoming bookstore offers and build hype regarding future releases, the user can set up an informative newsletter. this theme lets you choose your provider: aweber, mailchimp, feedblitz, or feedburner. for online commerce, the innovative woocommerce plugin facilitates the creation of amazing online stores with tax, shipping, and variable product options. all features of mybook will enhance your bookstore site and increase your sales numbers. more info / download demo kable what you will notice is that kable might not be 100% book-related out of the box, but that does not mean you cannot use it to build your own online bookstore – you sure can! it is the versatility and extreme adaptability of kable that allow you to turn it into any woocommerce-powered website that you want. and the process is super simple — ideal even — for someone who has never before built a web store. a very user- and beginner-friendly tool if you will. there is only one rule: approach building a page with an open mind. kable has multiple header and top bar styles, slider revolution, drag and drop page builder, boxed and full-width mode, nifty parallax effects and loads of custom-made ecommerce features. to sum it up, if you would like to sell books online, avoid building a store from scratch and go with kable. more info / download demo auteur auteur is an all-in-one wordpress theme for authors, reviewers and even bookstores. in the pack comes four gorgeous demos, all of which are original, creative and 100% mobile-ready. it is no secret that auteur practices all the current trends and regulations of the modern web. with this in mind, a website based on auteur will operate all the time and without flaws, regardless of the device and platforms they use. on top of that, auteur is also fast-loading and seo-friendly. with auteur, you are all set up to get things moving forward like a pro from the get-go. extra auteur goodness involves 10 blog and three shop layouts, wpbakery drag-and-drop page builder, mind-blowing slideshows, over 30 pre-made shortcodes, contact form 7 and mega menu. for any additional assistance, you can always hit up auteur’s support team or go through the extensive documentation. more info / download demo publisher publisher is a professional and attractive theme for websites that commercialize digital products. it’s definitely a comprehensive and versatile wordpress bookstore theme. with it, you can not only display your products or books; you can also sell them. the tevolution and templatic digital downloads plugins are free of charge with every purchase of this theme. your customers may purchase items in several ways: by clicking a link that takes them to amazon or by setting up an e-junkie cart. you also get the woocommerce plugin to commercialize your physical products. the templatic digital downloads plugin, specifically, is available as a standalone download. for greater practicality and aesthetic appeal, you can count on the widgets on the homepage. you can establish a personalized register page as well due to the publisher back-end. only the necessary fields may be included. to build up community trust, this theme also has a comment and review system. to ensure that nothing harmful gets through, you can moderate comments and reviews before they are published on the website. thanks to publisher’s wpml, it’s possible to establish a web page in multiple languages, where each customer can shift to another language at will. the color palettes are limitless, creating a multitude of possible schemes that you can easily change with the click of a button. applying them only takes a few seconds. another feature is a function for blog creation. more info / download demo if you find that some themes are missing from this list, please feel free to leave your comment below with a detailed description about this theme, and i will make sure that it gets listed here. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. bookstoreebookecommercewoocommerce share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts best membership wordpress themes to create a paid membership website membership sites are one of the best forms of online businesses but they are hard… 24 beautiful flower website templates for spring mood 2020 to find flower templates of the high quality can be a real challenge. even if… 18 cutest animal & pet wordpress themes 2020 if you own a pet shop, veterinary or any other sort of animal-related business and… best videographer and photographer wordpress themes 2020 we’ve got an entire dozen of the very best videographer and photographer wordpress themes for photography and videography portfolios. 18 best free bbpress themes for business, online community, blogs 2020 as a business or professional individual learns to adapt web presence to their marketing strategies,… best fashion ecommerce themes for wordpress 2020 as of 2020, wordpress powers over 30% of the websites in the internet. woocommerce is… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 30 responsive real estate wordpress themes for agencies, realtors, property listings & directories 2020 next post: 31 awesome technology news magazine wordpress themes 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×