about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ best lentil soup 3,702 comments jump to recipe this soup recipe was a long time coming! over the years, i made some lackluster lentil soups that never saw the light of day on this website. no vegetarian food blog would be complete without a proper lentil soup, though, so i perfected one of my own. here it is. my lentil soup is made with mostly pantry ingredients but includes hearty greens and a squeeze of lemon for bright, fresh flavor. it’s seasoned with a few of my favorite spices and plenty of freshly ground black pepper. honestly, it’s the best lentil soup i’ve ever had. the original title of this recipe was “spiced vegan lentil soup,” which is accurate, but a mouthful. with over 500 five-star reviews, i think it’s safe to call this the best lentil soup. period. whether you’re looking to lighten up your meals or warm up with a steaming bowl of soup, this healthy lentil soup recipe is for you! it’s one of my all-time favorites and i hope it becomes a staple in your kitchen as well. how to make the best lentil soup five reasons to love this recipe: the recipe calls for seasonal vegetables and affordable pantry ingredients, but tastes gourmet. this lentil soup has an amazing hearty texture that’s lightly creamy (yet there is no cream). the trick is to blend up a portion of the soup once the lentils are tender, and then pour it back into the pot. it’s like magic. this nutritious, well-balanced soup counts as a meal if you enjoy a generous portion. lentils are rich in protein, fiber, iron and folate. lentil soup packs well for lunch in a leak-proof container, and it tastes even better the next day. this soup freezes and defrosts well. make soup now and enjoy it later! watch how to make lentil soup please let me know how this lentil soup turns out for you in the comments. i’m always so eager to hear from you. if you love this soup, check out my hearty vegetarian chili, favorite black bean soup and pinto posole. you can check out all my soup and stew recipes here. don’t miss my lentil minestrone recipe in my cookbook—if you’re a fan of this soup, you’re going to love it. print best lentil soup author: cookie and kate prep time: 10 mins cook time: 45 mins total time: 55 minutes yield: 4 servings 1x category: soup method: stovetop cuisine: mediterranean ★★★★★ 4.9 from 1438 reviews this simple vegan lentil soup recipe comes together quickly with mostly pantry ingredients. be sure to have your ingredients prepped and ready before you start cooking! recipe yields four large bowls of soup, or six more modest servings. scale 1x2x3x ingredients ¼ cup extra virgin olive oil 1 medium yellow or white onion, chopped 2 carrots, peeled and chopped 4 garlic cloves, pressed or minced 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon curry powder ½ teaspoon dried thyme 1 large can (28 ounces) diced tomatoes, lightly drained 1 cup brown or green lentils, picked over and rinsed 4 cups vegetable broth 2 cups water 1 teaspoon salt, more to taste pinch of red pepper flakes freshly ground black pepper, to taste 1 cup chopped fresh collard greens or kale, tough ribs removed 1 to 2 tablespoons lemon juice (½ to 1 medium lemon), to taste instructions warm the olive oil in a large dutch oven or pot over medium heat. one-fourth cup olive oil may seem like a lot, but it adds a lovely richness and heartiness to this nutritious soup. once the oil is shimmering, add the chopped onion and carrot and cook, stirring often, until the onion has softened and is turning translucent, about 5 minutes. add the garlic, cumin, curry powder and thyme. cook until fragrant while stirring constantly, about 30 seconds. pour in the drained diced tomatoes and cook for a few more minutes, stirring often, in order to enhance their flavor. pour in the lentils, broth and the water. add 1 teaspoon salt and a pinch of red pepper flakes. season generously with freshly ground black pepper. raise heat and bring the mixture to a boil, then partially cover the pot and reduce the heat to maintain a gentle simmer. cook for 25 to 30 minutes, or until the lentils are tender but still hold their shape. transfer 2 cups of the soup to a blender. securely fasten the lid, protect your hand from steam with a tea towel placed over the lid, and purée the soup until smooth. pour the puréed soup back into the pot. (or, use an immersion blender to blend a portion of the soup.) add the chopped greens and cook for 5 more minutes, or until the greens have softened to your liking. remove the pot from the heat and stir in 1 tablespoon of lemon juice. taste and season with more salt, pepper and/or lemon juice until the flavors really sing. for spicier soup, add another pinch or two of red pepper flakes. serve while hot. leftovers will keep well for about 4 days in the refrigerator, or can be frozen for several months (just defrost before serving). notes soup recipe roughly based on america’s test kitchen’s lentil soup in the complete vegetarian cookbook, with reference to the first mess’ favourite lentil soup. recommended equipment: (affiliate links) i love my vitamix blender and le creuset 5.5-quart dutch oven. for more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials. ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes curried red lentil soup with dried cherries and cilantro west african peanut soup thai red curry with vegetables share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories budget friendly, dairy free, easy weeknight dinners, egg free, fall, favorites, gluten free, lebanese, main dishes, mediterranean, nut free, pack for lunch, pantry friendly, recipes, soups and stews, soy free, vegan, winter ▸ ingredients carrots, collard greens, curry, kale, lemon, lentils ↢ newer roasted cauliflower and farro salad with feta and avocado older ↣ hearty sweet potato, arugula & wild rice salad with ginger dressing by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) eva-maria cornejo march 16, 2020 i blend the veggies with the diced tomatoes so that my kids will eat it. it tastes delicious! ★★★★★ reply maria quinn march 17, 2020 this soup was delicious. i replaced the veg stock with chicken stock as i was out of veg. loved the hot bite of it…very nice indeed. i need another one of your recipes to try now please :-) ★★★★★ reply kate march 18, 2020 hi maria! i have a ton of great recipes on the blog. you can search by category, ingredient, etc. :) let me know what you think of the next one! reply molly march 17, 2020 just made this today while hunkered down in my chicago apt. it’s fantastic and so comforting. i doubled it so it will get us through the week! thank you for your thoughtful vegan/vegetarian recipes :) reply sandrine march 18, 2020 delicious! without hesitation, the best lentil soup i ever had! thank you kate for this amazing recipe! ★★★★★ reply jill davis march 19, 2020 perfection!!! ★★★★★ reply tina amro march 19, 2020 we loved this recipe. i did a few things different. i think it’s okay to put your own spin on soups and this recipe is very flexible! i added celery. i’m not vegetarian so i used chicken bouillon. i used an extra cup of lentil, and 2 cups of water. i also used loomi! my husband is middle eastern so i’ve had the privilege of learning about their special spices and herbs. loomi replaces the lemon by boiling/simmering the loomi ball with the soup. ★★★★★ reply tina amro march 19, 2020 i also used fresh spinach because that is what i had on hand. ★★★★★ reply jesssica march 20, 2020 my flat loved it! will make again ★★★★★ reply kate march 20, 2020 great to hear, jessica! reply margaret march 20, 2020 love this! it is so easy and tasty! i might try it with cabbage also although it was delicious with greens. ★★★★★ reply laurie g jacobvitz march 20, 2020 this has become our favorite soup. my husband made the following changes to the recipe: 2 teaspoons curry powder 1 teaspoon dried thyme do not drain the tomatoes 1 1/4 cup lentils 2 1/2 cups water 2 teaspoons salt 2 pinches of res pepper flakes ★★★★★ reply marie march 20, 2020 this recipe is simply delicious. i made a pot today and shared with my neighbor. my husband, my neighbor, my daughter -everyone loved it. i feel good because i know it is simply good food… reply ori fifield march 21, 2020 this is the best lentil soup i have had / made, ever. my omnivore, is-usually-the-one-who-cooks bf loved it, too. we’re making it again today and going to split it at the point of adding greens and add some left over meat to his. i feel like the spice / herb mixture, this recipe is very forgiving to whatever you have in your kitchen – varying kinds of stock or bullion, some celery if you’re running low on onion, using up the baby spinach you have for something else instead of kale, etc. we usually top w/ a little cheese and serve w/ fresh, local bread and butter. ★★★★★ reply kirsten j mcspadden march 21, 2020 this is absolutely delicious, a new family favorite! ★★★★★ reply kate march 24, 2020 great to hear, kirsten! reply janice lee march 22, 2020 made it twice already!!! it was so delicious and easy – even for me! i forgot the garlic the first time and the lemon the 2nd time but it was still delicious!!! my family loves it!!! ★★★★★ reply kate march 24, 2020 wonderful, janice! reply angela march 22, 2020 great recipe! easy and the best tasting lentil soup i have had in a long time. spices give it so much flavor and the lemon juice really makes it perfect. i did not have vegetable stock so i used additional water and a small can of tomato sauce. i also added red bell pepper and a little coriander. it is delish! (blending the 2 cups of soup transforms it – 1st lentil soup i have made with perfect consistency) ★★★★★ reply kate march 24, 2020 thank you for sharing how you were able to work with this one with what you had on hand, angela! i appreciate your comment and review. reply fil march 24, 2020 just wondering if i could red lentils…. all i have in this lockdown:( reply kate march 25, 2020 hi fil! we’re in the same boat. yes, you could use red lentils. they will not retain their shape as well as regular, but i think your soup will be good. they will cook faster than the 25 to 30 minutes specified in step 4—just cook until the lentils are tender, and proceed to step 5. please report back if you give it a try. reply pauline march 24, 2020 this is indeed the best lentil recipe! the whole family is happy, even my 5y.o daughter. ★★★★★ reply gina march 25, 2020 delicious and hearty! play with the recipe a bit to give it your personal touch… my family enjoyed it with celery, spinach, and more curry. ★★★★★ reply christine albanese march 26, 2020 i’d like to make this tonight but only have red lentils… will that work anyway? reply kate march 27, 2020 hi christine, i don’t love red lentils in this one. but, you can use that if that is all you have. be sure to follow this guide on cooking time etc: https://cookieandkate.com/perfect-lentils-recipe/. for red, they take a lot less time. reply leanda march 27, 2020 hearty. tasty. wholesome goodness. thank you kate, this was soul-satisfyingly good! ★★★★★ reply sarah march 27, 2020 did you use dry or canned lentils?? reply kate march 27, 2020 hi sarah! dried lentils reply « older comments hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}