we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk culture like follow psa for side sleepers: your pillow is probably too flat. these are better. a pillow's job is to cradle your head in the same position as when you're standing. sleeping laterally puts pressure on your shoulders and neck, making loft and firmness vital for a side sleeper's posture. so which pillow should you buy? these are our top picks. share tweet share share best curved pillow eli and elm side sleeper pillow instead of pulling a rectangular pillow around your neck, a u-shape provides support with a nook for your shoulders. $99.99 from eli and elm most innovative material purple harmony say hello to the bouncy hexagonal material that you never knew you needed and a shape that won't flatten. $159 from purple best for high loft layla kapok pillow once you experience how this kapok pillow molds to your pressure points, you'll never go back to plain memory foam. $99 from layla sleep editors independently select all products and services featured here. if you buy something through our links, we may receive a commission. by leah stodart2020-03-25 09:00:00 utc pillows are not one-size-fits-all. anyone who's ever purchased a $3 pillow from the bin at target on the basis that it was $3 probably found that out the hard way. sorry about your neck, pal. for side sleepers, "i think i slept on my neck wrong" is a very real thing that could be causing neck pain in the morning, but not in the awkward, twisted, contortionist way that everyone pictures. in reality, the real offender is probably a flat pillow. see also: this is the best way to sleep sleeping in the lateral position takes the pressure off the mattress and puts your body weight on a single shoulder. because your shoulder is also holding you higher off the mattress, there's now a gap between your neck and the mattress. while a flat pillow is ideal for preventing a stomach sleeper's spine from curving upward, too little loft causes a side sleeper's head to sink below the plane of the neck — causing a gnarly kink that will definitely hurt in the morning. how high should a pillow be for side sleepers? a loft of at least four inches is a side sleeper's best bet in maintaining neutral spine alignment. (some extra-lofty pillows measure as tall as eight inches.) that elevation relieves pressure on the shoulders and keeps your head at a nice upward angle to prevent neck strain and maintain a healthy posture. firmness matters, too. regardless of whether the stuffing is down, down alternative, gel, polyester, memory foam, or some unique combo of a few, your pillow needs to be firm enough to keep its shape throughout the night — and buoyant enough to keep your 10-pound head afloat instead of sagging down in the middle. sturdy fill also has a way of puffing up around the area being pressed down, keeping your head still and up on its side. what else should side sleepers look for in a pillow? no one is expecting you to switch pillows every time you change sleeping positions. but if you know you're a diehard side sleeper for a decent portion of your eight hours, or you're a pregnant woman who must now navigate doctor's orders to sleep on your side, shopping with these features in mind could decrease your middle-of-the-night fluff and flip sessions. once you find a good loft and firmness, you can start shopping based on personal preference: for people who hate the spongey feel of a slab of memory foam: the world of pillows has gotten strangely high tech in the past five years, which is great for people who have hated all of the traditional foam pillows they've tried. many modern ones are instead filled with shredded foam, which offers the same bouncy support while being able to spread out for a more fluffy, down feel. (also less lumpy than cheap pillows that are stuffed with balls of cotton.) most of these pillows are also adjustable, meaning you can literally reach inside and take foam out to adjust to any finicky preferences. just make sure you have a vacuum handy. for people who can't sleep if they're hot: too sweaty to relax? a pillow with cooling gel or a copper-infused cover will keep heat away from your head for that cool, breezy sleep we all covet. for people with broad shoulders: the wider your shoulders, the more space you'll need to fill between the mattress and your neck. a loft of at least six inches should do the trick. for sleepers who have neck pain: if you can't take any chances on your neck not being fully supported, a non-rectangle shaped pillow could be more reliable. a u-shaped pillow allows you to slide your shoulders right into the curve, and a contoured pillow offers a higher loft under your neck to ensure minimal straining as your head lays back. the prices listed are the starting prices for each pillow, but know that most of these will increase if you buy a bigger pillow (say, a king instead of a queen). here are the best pillows for side sleepers right now: most innovative material image: mashable photo composite the good comes in two heights • non-traditional material makes your head feel like it's floating • polyester fibers ensure it's not too spongey • impeccable airflow the bad loft might be too tall for combo sleepers • no differentiating between queen/king the bottom line a blend of the gel-like og purple pillow and the fluffy plush pillow, the harmony has a non-traditional feel that will never lose its shape. 1. purple harmony say hello to the bouncy hexagonal material that you never knew you needed and a shape that won't flatten. trial period: 100 nights loft: 6.5 or 7.5 inches sizes: one (standard) adjustable fill: no $159 from purple if you've hated every pillow you've ever tried, the purple harmony might just satisfy your finicky (and rightfully so) sleeping preferences. it's not down, not down alternative, and it's not memory foam. meet purple tech: purple's proprietary hyper-elastic polymer that will have your head feeling weightless. (you can actually see the pattern through the pillow's spandex cover.) the gel-ish material adds a really unique, springy squish without being too jello-y. what else can you expect when a rocket scientist and comfort tech engineer get together? but there's a lot more going on here: woven into the pillow's cover is a hexagonal grid design that provides extra support that adapts to your head and neck when you move — an obvious plus for side sleepers who flip positions frequently. hot sleepers who need breathability will dig the talalay latex core, which adds extra aeration and bounce. fluffy polyester fibers called "smart plush" surround the purple tech to give it a feathery feel without ever needing to be fluffed. the meticulously-crafted combination of materials is supposed to distribute your weight to give your shoulder a break, as well as cradle pressure points in your neck. best curved pillow image: mashable photo composite the good can unzip to adjust distribution of fill • organic cotton • no reviews less than four stars the bad only comes in one size • taking filling out can get messy the bottom line the curved edge of this pillow was designed specifically to cradle the head and chin and lock in that neutral spine alignment. 2. eli and elm side sleeper pillow instead of pulling a rectangular pillow around your neck, a u-shape provides support with a nook for your shoulders. trial period: 45 days loft: 5 inches sizes: standard adjustable fill: yes $99.99 from eli and elm loft alone may not be the answer to your neck pain. if you find yourself trying to pull traditional rectangular pillows down around your neck, the curved eli and elm side sleeper pillow was designed specifically fit around the shoulders and chin of a side sleeper. a boomerang-shaped pillow has an indent where you can put your shoulders, allowing your head and neck to be completely cradled in the middle. the notch falls in just the right place to keep your chin propped, and it's firm enough to keep your nose from being suffocated by fluff. the loft of this pillow is a little different than your average pillow, too. the left and right sides of the "u" shape have a higher loft while the middle loft is slightly lower. this spread aims to keep your head from rolling across the pillow, reinforcing the neutral alignment of your head and neck with your spine. don't worry, it's not a lumpy transition. however, if you find that any place is too lofty or not lofty enough for your liking, the cover fabric can be unzipped to remove or fix the fill. even if you don't do any rearranging, you'll want to squeeze the noodle latex foam just for the hell of it. this material was designed by eli and elm just for this pillow and features a really nice, responsive bounce with some cooling gel mixed in. best for high loft image: mashable photo composite the good copper-infused cover absorbs heat • kapok is still plush but airier than cotton • shredded memory foam has faster response than flat foam • overstuffed in a good way the bad quilted pattern could be annoying under a pillowcase the bottom line it's too tall for stomach sleepers, but people who need max support will love how kapok conforms to their neck shape. 3. layla kapok pillow once you experience how this kapok pillow molds to your pressure points, you'll never go back to plain memory foam. trial period: 120 nights loft: 8 inches sizes: queen, king adjustable fill: yes $99 from layla sleep the recommended loft for a good side sleeper pillow is at least four inches, but that doesn't cut it for people who need max elevation to prevent neck pain. the layla kapok pillow has a loft of eight inches, stuffed to the brim by a neat combo of filling that's great for side sleepers. pillows that are flat slabs of pure memory foam don't provide the height or cushy support that your head needs to stay aligned with your body — not to mention that they're just kind of uncomfortable. shredded memory foam, like what fills the layla, has more freedom to move and can still compress like memory foam without being stiff. onto the real pressing question: wtf is kapok? sustainably derived from the seed pods of tropical kapok trees, think of kapok as a silkier, airier cotton. if you're looking for a down alternative alternative, kapok provides a similar plush feeling with a little more buoyancy. together with the shredded foam, the layla pillow offers a denser feel than memory foam and a balanced shape that keeps your head from sinking into the middle. the kapok isn't the only thing keeping this pillow cool. despite resembling a cozy quilt, the copper-infused cover will be a godsend for anyone who gets sweaty during sleep. cutec is a performance fabric made with cotton-infused yarn that pulls heat away from your face, and according to layla's site, can also help reduce odor and remove and replenish dead skin cells. budget pick image: mashable photo composite the good whole pillow is completely washer and dryer safe • bamboo cover doesn't need a pillow case • perfect balance of fluffy microfiber and foam the bad filling gets lumpy if you adjust it too much the bottom line this affordable shredded memory foam pillow provides a dreamy medium-firm feel and is machine washable. 4. original coop home goods pillow your head will stay afloat all night on this sweet balance of foam and fluff, blended inside a bamboo cover. trial period: 100 nights loft: 8 inches sizes: queen, king adjustable fill: yes $59.99 from coop home goods overwhelmed by how high-tech and trendy the pillow market is now? the original coop home goods pillow has been cult favorite of side sleepers before "hyper-elastic polymer" was even a thing. inside this beloved pillow lie fluffy pieces of microfiber chunks of cross-cut memory foam. the result is a cloud-like experience that molds around your body's shape for support in any position. like most pillows with shredded fill, this pillow can be unzipped to take fill out or push the bigger chunks to the middle for extra support around your head. it may not be the firmest pillow out there, but it's a glorious balance of foam and fluff — and coop home goods guarantees that it won't go flat. but we'd buy this pillow solely for the fact that it is 100% washer and dryer safe, baby. no pillow case is needed — but when coop's bamboo-derived lulltra fabric is this soft, you wouldn't want a case, anyway. on laundry day, the entire pillow can be tossed in the washing machine. if a spill happens, the liner and cover can be unzipped and washed separately. it's also hypoallergenic and super breathable. best for combo sleepers image: mashable photo composite the good very breathable • outer layer holds your head in place without feeling spongey • dual-pillow design works for any position • both layers are washer and dryer safe the bad still not as adjustable as shredded memory foam the bottom line the original casper pillow is technically two pillows in one, offering firmness and plush for support in any position. 5. casper original pillow a dreamy down alternative pick, casper's pillow-in-a-pillow design is the best of both worlds for side, back, and stomach sleepers. trial period: 100 nights loft: 7 inches sizes: standard, king adjustable fill: yes $65 from casper side sleepers who dabble with back and stomach sleeping need a pillow with varying plush levels. though that's technically achievable with shredded fill that can be taken out by the handful, it's too messy of a project in the middle of the night. the original casper pillow provides an easy switch between loft and fluff with a unique pillow-inside-a-pillow design. the middle insert is a nice, compact core, supporting your head with over one billion tightly-packed fibers. but don't confuse the outer layer as a pillowcase. it's basically a whole pillow of its own, filled with longer, silkier fibers that are very fluff-able and offer a down-alternative feel. instead of the spongey memory foam, the more movable outer layer kind of puffs up around your head to hold that posture. both layers have great airflow, and you can literally feel the air moving through the fabric when you press down. they're also both machine washable — just take the inner pillow out, zip the outer pillow back up, and wash them separately. the two-inch gusset around the seam is more than just an extra piece of fabric for design purposes — it actually helps the pillow stay upright and maintain a consistent loft. casper calls it "the backbone" of the pillow. best cooling high-loft pillow image: mashable photo composite the good cooling gel layer on both sides of the pillow • super high loft for a gel pillow • tempur material is highly moldable and customizable the bad has a chemical-y smell at first the bottom line you'll no longer have to flip to the cool side of the pillow with tempur-pedic's dual gel layers and high loft. 6. tempur-cloud breeze experience tempur-pedic's famous nasa-designed foam and cooling pads with a loft higher than most gel pillows. trial period: 90 nights loft height: 6.4 inches sizes: queen, king adjustable fill: no $169 from tempur-pedic side sleepers who are also hot sleepers know the struggle of waking up to flip the pillow multiple times per night (sometimes to fluff, sometimes to find the cold side. usually both). the lofty and dual cooling tempur-cloud breeze solves both of those problems. how is the tempur-cloud breeze different than the rest of tempur-pedic's pillow line? you'll immediately notice a blue rectangle sitting inside the traditional rectangular shape of the pillow. that, my sweaty friends, is nearly edge-to-edge gel coverage that'll keep your head cool even near the corners of the pillow. tempur's breeze gel uses an open-pocket design to draw heat away from your body without retaining it, and also has a gooey-er, more adaptive feel than common memory foam. chronic pillow flippers will appreciate that the tempur-cloud's gel layer is on both sides of the pillow. between the gel layers lies "tempur material," a proprietary type of foam that was designed with nasa engineers and offers highly-personalized comfort. this is all encased in an ultra-breathable 100% cotton cover, which is removable and machine washable. the bear pillow, which features a similar meshy-gel material, is often a direct competitor to the tempur-cloud breeze. if you need a deciding factor between the two, just know that the tempur's loft is about 1.5 inches thicker than that of the bear. best down pillow image: mashable photo composite the good three firmness options • dual-core design keeps middle supportive • 400 thread count cotton is mesmerizingly soft the bad may not be firm enough for serious neck pain the bottom line down pillows are rarely firm enough for side sleepers, but brooklinen's dual-core design provides ample support and a luxurious feel. 7. brooklinen down plush pillow another internet favorite, brooklinen's 400 thread count down pillow provides a dual-core design for focused head support. trial period: 60 nights loft height: 3 to 5 inches sizes: standard, king adjustable fill: no $69 from brooklinen down pillows get a bad rap for being too impressionable for the support side sleepers need. but when done right (and stuffed enough) down pillows can get quite lofty, and side sleepers can still get that fancy hotel bed experience that down offers. brooklinen's down plush pillow works for side sleepers because of its dual-core design: soft fluffy feathers on the outside leave the option for flipping to your back or stomach while thicker, more tightly stacked feathers fill the center to keep your head positioned. (feathers with no real method of stuffing tend to spread out under where your head is weighing down, which is a main reason why side sleepers tend to steer clear of down pillows.) brooklinen's pillow is packed with down-certified canadian goose. the real luxurious aspect comes from the cover. it's 100% cotton with a thread count of 400. the general idea is that the finer the threads that are woven together, the softer and less prone to wrinkles those linens are. double-stitched edges also help to prevent the little rips and tatters that show up over time. the mid-plush option is versatile and should be more than sturdy enough for side sleepers. but if you're worried, the firm option bumps you to a loft of five inches. best contoured pillow image: mashable photo composite the good customizable to height and shoulder width • extra-firm material is an extra weapon against strain • hill-like curves fill the gap between shoulder and neck the bad extra firm feel takes some getting used to the bottom line tempur-pedic's orthopedic neck pillow aims to correct spinal alignment with extra-firm curvature under your neck and head. 8. tempur-neck pillow reinforce that spinal alignment with the ultra-firm tempur-neck, which uses uneven lofts to fill gaps and keep your head in place. trial period: 90 nights loft: 3, 4, or 4.5 inches sizes: small, medium, large adjustable fill: no $89 from tempur-pedic maybe you have chronic neck pain. maybe you've been sleeping on your side with a shitty pillow for far too long. either way, an ultra-lofty, ultra-firm pillow may not cut it for necks that need extra attention, and that's where a contoured pillow comes in. these are purposefully uneven, sporting a higher loft in the front that rolls into a lower loft in the middle, then back up into a medium-high loft to keep your head from scooting too far back. petite folks or people with less-broad shoulders may find it comfier to flip the pillow around and rest on the shorter of the two edges instead. to the surprise of absolutely no one, tempur-pedic makes one of the leading contoured pillows. the tempur-neck is an orthopedic pillow that features tempur-pedic's iconic extra-firm memory foam and supports the natural curves of your shoulders and neck. when we say extra firm, we mean firm. it's still really comfy, but if you're used to fluff, the decrease in malleability will take some getting used to. however, your interest in this pillow probably means you want to ensure that your head isn't flopping around, and you can be confident that your head will not be sinking into this bad boy. sizes are measured in loft height rather than dimensions that match your mattress size. side sleepers should consider choosing the medium (4 inches) or the large (4.5 inches). best body pillow image: mashable photo composite the good tencel cover promotes breathability and wicks sweat • prevents the need for an extra leg pillow • gel dough is responsive and cooling at the same time the bad has a weird smell at first the bottom line for side sleepers who need more than neck support, this gel dough pillow relieves pressure on the hips and pelvis. 9. z l-shaped gel dough pillow sticking this l-shaped cooling pillow between your legs takes pressure off your hips and offers a whole new level of comfort. trial period: n/a loft height: 5 inches size: standard adjustable fill: no $115.99 from malouf when notorious side sleepers sleep almost exclusively on one side, the shoulder and hip can only take so much pressure before pain kicks in. l-shaped pillows offer something to lean on to give that shoulder a break, somewhere to flop that top arm, as well as an extended piece of pillow to hold in between the legs. the ol' "pillow between the knees" trick is game-changing for a few reasons. not only does it just feel comfy, but it mitigates some of the awkward twisting that goes on when laying laterally. holding that pillow keeps your knees on top of each other (instead of stretching a leg out), ensuring that your hips, pelvis, and upper back are aligned and preventing irritation of the sciatic nerve. a few reviewers on amazon are convinced that they'll never go back to a regular-shaped pillow again. the slight elevation between your legs also facilitates blood flow through the vena cava — a major vein that carries blood back and forth from your heart. a pillow that spans your whole torso can get hot pretty quickly unless the pillow is made with cooling materials. this pillow by z is filled with "gel dough," and yes, it's just as comfortable as it sounds. think the cradling, moldable feel of memory foam, but infused with advanced polyurethane gel pockets that dissipate heat to regulate your body temperature. the soft tencel cover is sweat-wicking and removable for washing. topics: culture, hit snooze, mashable deals, pillows, sleep, work/life related roundups culture how to choose the boxed mattress that's right for you culture best indoor plants for people who suck at taking care of plants culture the best stainless steel cookware sets that you can get on amazon culture 7 (mostly) online guitar courses that are actually worth your time culture 7 of the most comfortable travel shoes for women related reviews culture brooklinen sheets review: a nice stepping stone into luxury bedding culture what reviewers and bloggers have to say about the philips turbostar digital air fryer culture okcupid review 2019: a hip dating site that's way less lame than the competition culture elitesingles review: a career-oriented dating site with hit or miss results heads up: all products featured here are selected by mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. if you buy something, mashable may earn an affiliate commission. related roundups culture how to choose the boxed mattress that's right for you culture best indoor plants for people who suck at taking care of plants culture the best stainless steel cookware sets that you can get on amazon culture 7 (mostly) online guitar courses that are actually worth your time culture 7 of the most comfortable travel shoes for women related reviews culture brooklinen sheets review: a nice stepping stone into luxury bedding culture what reviewers and bloggers have to say about the philips turbostar digital air fryer culture okcupid review 2019: a hip dating site that's way less lame than the competition culture elitesingles review: a career-oriented dating site with hit or miss results masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.