we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk culturesex & relationshipsdating like follow the best dating sites to find a connection by this weekend whether you're looking for something serious or someone who only texts after midnight, there's a dating site full of people looking for the same thing. share tweet share share best overall match the og dating site reigns supreme with a tried-and-true algorithm and more users than the population of nyc. see details best hookup site adultfriendfinder live videos and more monthly visitors than eharmony makes aff great for finding a down-for-anything fling. see details best for career-oriented people elite singles you can speak your love language *and* money language here, but it might be too hit-or-miss for the price. see details editors independently select all products and services featured here. if you buy something through our links, we may receive a commission. by mashable deals2020-01-28 22:14:26 utc roast tinder bios where users list their height all you want, but a good portion of us are goddamn thankful for online dating. some grandparents and much of fake spiritual twitter still insist that online dating takes away from that raw conversation that can only be had in person, but if you think about it, online dating fosters many more interactions with people that you probably wouldn't have come across otherwise. plus, it's a helpful step to mitigate the pressure of meeting someone new, especially for introverts. the truth is, not everyone can serendipitously run into the love of their life at the gym. that antiquated mindset continues to be shown up by scholarly research. in fact, two stanford sociologists found that online dating is officially the most popular way for u.s. couples to connect. the 2017 survey found that 39% of heterosexual couples and 60% of same-sex couples originally met online, beating the numbers of older, traditional methods like meeting through friends or at work or school. see also: how to make your dating profile stand out julie spira, dating expert and ceo of cyberdatingexpert.com, says it wasn't always so easy to meet people online. she would know: she's been helping clients find love online since 1994. "people didn’t have mobile phones and laptops, and the process was people would go home, log on slowly, see who had written to them and write back," she says. "the courtship process was a lot slower, so it took quite a while to get from the first interaction to actually going on a date. plus in those days, there was a stigma associated with online dating. you did not tell people you met your spouse, or partner, or even a date online." the rhetoric has clearly come a long way since then, and the digital dating landscape has evolved with people's changing needs. women were tired of men blowing up their messages with creepy first-liners, so bumble came along. gay men who find grindr's "three feet away" notice (and dick pics) too overwhelming can head to chappy for a less sexual approach to the modern swiping app. coffee meets bagel is the much-needed happy medium between fast-paced millennial apps and eharmony's pressure to settle down. "tindering" is now a verb, but it's far from your only option. we haven't quite reached ai-based or gene matchmaking just yet, but a lot of new features to facilitate more meaningful matches (or quicker hookups) have sprung up even in the past five years. if you're fed up with the dating site or app you use now or just don't know where to start, check out our top picks for the dating sites most worth your time: best overall image: pexels the good largest user base of all • new safety features for emergency communication • lets you choose dealbreakers • clean, user-friendly layout the bad sifting through profiles takes work • you get notifications for everything • prices change constantly (but it's always expensive) the bottom line somewhere between tinder and eharmony lies match, now with a modern design and enhanced safety features. 1. match the og dating site reigns supreme with a tried-and-true algorithm and more users than the population of nyc. free version: yes three months: $25.99/month six months: $22.99/month one year: $19.99/month see details you've probably known what match.com was since you were little. launched in 1995, its decades in the business help it bring a ton of insight to the table for singles looking for all kinds of connections. and with its more recent push into mobile come a few new features that have helped make the ancient site more relevant, including its very own version of stories, popularized by snapchat and, uh ... adopted by everyone else. match users can shoot little videos of their day or add voiceovers to photos and post them to their profiles for other users to check out. "match is the family brand," spira says. "it's the one where someone could see their grandmother on, and someone could see their grandson on. it has the largest critical mass, and they have done a fabulous job of keeping up with the technology." it's technically free to build a profile and browse for matches, but users who want to engage in direct messaging with their matches will have to upgrade to a paid membership, which costs on average about $20 per month. match users can browse on desktop and on mobile through its app. the site also has a missed connections feature which, like the app happn, tells users who they've crossed paths with recently. more than 25,000 new users join each day, apparently, adding up to a mind-blowing nine million total users. that's more people than the population of new york city. best swiping app image: pexels the good limited scrolling rather than endless swiping • unique profile criteria like political affiliation and stance on marijuana • rapidly-growing user base, especially in cities • high statistics for second dates the bad filtering by height no longer a free feature • have to pay for unlimited matches the bottom line the wide appeal of hinge is due to its thoughtful combo of tinder's instant gratification and match's relationship focus. 2. hinge this modern go-to app for millennials to find a date is chiller than match but less "wanna bang?" than tinder. free version: yes one month of paid: $12.99/month three months of paid: $6.99/month six months of paid: $4.99/month see details having a profile on tinder probably means you have one on hinge and bumble, too. the big three millennial, rapid-fire apps may seem interchangeable, but hinge has an arsenal of unique profile criteria and a data-based algorithm that set it apart from competitors who simply throw everyone in a 10-mile radius in your direction. despite the fact that we're actively seeking out new dating apps and feel a rush every time a cute contender swipes right back, no one wants to be on these. unless you're in it for the booty calls, the whole point of online dating is to find your person so you can stop looking for your person. that's the whole idea behind hinge's 2019 rebrand to "the dating app designed to be deleted." tbh, it's a really smart combo of witty and optimistic that should deliver users some hope. if you don't trust slogans, hinge's real-world statistics speak for themselves: beta trials of a feature called "we met" asked hinge users how the first date went. some 90% said the first date was great and 72% said they'd be down for a second date. there's a common understanding among users that hinge isn't just for sex, but there's no pressure to rush into a relationship either. instead of extensive cheesy questionnaires and spam emails about the 50 winks you were sent, hinge uses personal prompts to find you anywhere from five to 15 matches per day. prompts range from "the most spontaneous thing i've ever done" to "two truths and a lie." seems like a good recipe for a connection, right? you can also explore a potential match's height, college (if they went), political affiliation, stance on weed, and more, which are displayed as profile constants like age or gender. by covering so many bases before even messaging someone, hinge lowers your chance of meeting someone you'd hate. best for liberals image: pexels the good queer-friendly and inclusive • lots of users • expands compatibility to those with similar social justice views • minimalistic, modern redesign the bad the best features aren't free the bottom line okcupid will offer you matches that feel really multi-faceted — and the site looks great, too. 3. okcupid millennials who follow current events will enjoy okcupid's tumblr-esque design and a focus on social issues. free version: yes one month: $9.95/month three months: $7.95/month six months: $4.95/month see details is your worst nightmare going on a date with a hottie just to find out they don't care about women's issues? okcupid is here to weed them out. users can offer a ton of information about themselves through the site's match questions. examples include: "would you date someone who keeps a gun in the house?" or "should the government require children be vaccinated for preventable diseases?" the answers to these questions help okcupid determine which members might be a good match for one another. of note: per okcupid's own stats, liberal women in particular have luck on the site. and in 2017, the site offered users the chance to answer 50 "current events" questions that illuminate a user's politics. "okcupid has been a favorite of mine for years," spira says. "i always liked okcupid because they have a great critical mass and they have the thought-provoking questions that really allow you to think about how you feel about some of these issues, whether it’s politics or gun control, and how do you feel about your date’s answers. people spend a lot of time on site just perusing the questions that other people answer, and i like that." best for those looking to get hitched image: pexels the good high success rate speaks for itself • questionnaire makes you think about what you need to work on the bad not lgbtq friendly • ridiculously pricey the bottom line if you're laser-focused on hetero matrimony, this is the deep dive you've been waiting for. 4. eharmony casual or liberal daters might feel smothered here, but straight people who are tired of the chase will love the focus on settling down. free version: yes three months: $54.95/month six months: $36.95/month one year: $22.95/month see details ever see a commercial for eharmony and wonder if a site that cheesy actually works? apparently, it does. a spokesperson for the site says it's been used by 54 million people, and is apparently responsible for 4 percent of u.s. marriages. "that doesn’t mean you’re going to walk down the aisle, but it certainly means that you’re looking for a very serious relationship that may or may not lead to marriage. it may lead to living together or at least being in an exclusive, committed relationship." eharmony uses a comprehensive questionnaire with a 29 dimensions to match you with people based on your long-term compatibility. you'll give yourself a rating on prompts like "i'm an honest partner," with sliding scale responses. on paper, asking deep questions like these right off the bat makes total sense when pairing two people together — but they're so basic. as much as you'd like to lie to feel better about yourself, you know deep down that's not the way to a healthy relationship. admitting that you're not as mature in a certain area is key to eharmony matching you with someone who complements you. eharmony promises to pay for three months if you're not satisfied after three months, so they're clearly pretty confident that all of those questions work. profiles also look really nice, like a fancy résumé designed by a graphic designer. you even have the option to put your favorite tv shows, music, sports, and more on your profile. offering men seeking men or women seeking women options should be a no-brainer — but eharmony's founders are pretty conservative. neil warren, the octogenarian cofounder and ceo, insists that the whole ordeal wasn't an anti-gay thing at all. "we didn't want to pretend to be experts on gay and lesbian couples," said warren in a 2016 cnn article. "we're not anti-gay at all ...it's a different match." but come on, dude — you guys have been studying and perfecting the matchmaking process for nearly 20 years, but you don't understand same sex or queer relationship dynamics? to settle a 2005 discrimination lawsuit brought against eharmony by same-sex couples, the site launched a gay and lesbian-specific site called compatible partners in 2009. best hookup site image: pexels the good massive user base • lgbtq friendly • tons of features for max satisfaction • chemistry questionnaires are actually decent the bad outdated and unattractive layout • entire site looks like a virus-ridden porn ad • best features get pricey the bottom line if you can get past the fact that it looks like an ad for a deserted strip club, you'll get the satisfaction you were looking for and more. 5. adultfriendfinder live videos and more monthly visitors than eharmony makes aff great for finding a down-for-anything fling. free version: yes dating app compatibility: technically yes, but it's complicated — just stick to the desktop version one month: $30/month three months: $20/month one year: $15/month see details adultfriendfinder is our pick for the best hookup site, and that's because it's literally impossible to walk away unsatisfied. though a lot of young people use tinder to find casual sex, aff is more... mature — like a pornhub that you can actually interact with. regardless of whether you're looking for an in-person hookup or to blow off some steam via sexting or raunchy videos, aff has everything that your dirty mind can think of and more. almost nothing is blurred out (no, really, there are lots of unsolicited dick pics), but if you don't mind that the entire thing looks like a sketchy "there are hot singles in your area" ad, you'll be in heaven. (seriously, it's one of the raunchiest hookup dating sites on the market.) a word about adultfriendfinder's app capabilities: while they technically do exist, finding them in the apple store or on google play can prove challenging. we'd recommend just sticking with the desktop version. with over 25 million monthly users (that's more than eharmony) as well as live video options, chat rooms, groups for ultra specific kinks, and more, you can probably assume how wild this site can get. but there's such a large and diverse group of potential matches, you're very likely to find other like-minded people, which does wonders when all you want to do is connect with someone who's on the same page as you. the part that you wouldn't expect is the fact that they do offer tons of compatibility questions and matchmaking services, because they're that intent on finding you a good lay. another bonus is that adultfriendfinder is like the dating site version of new york city (aka it never sleeps). you'll find people who work the regular 9-5, people who work the night shift, and people in other time zones, so it's nearly impossible to log on and not have people to talk to. adultfriendfinder is like the booty call that's always awake when you text them. best for outgoing girls and shy guys image: bumble the good no unsolicited creepy messages from dudes • eliminates "dead" matches • bumble boost lets you rematch with an expired match the bad 24 hours to respond isn't enough • filtering by zodiac sign could be problematic the bottom line with women making moves and matches expiring after a day, bumble gets things moving by making you consider matches more seriously. 6. bumble women are required to make the first move, so it's great for ladies tired of being bombarded by creepy dudes. free version: yes one week: $8.99/week one month: $24.99/month three months: $16.66/month six months: $13.33/month see details meet the dating app version of the sadie hawkins dance, created by ex-tinder employees (ooh, drama). in an attempt to correct one of the common complaints of dating apps — that women get spammed with tons of creepy messages — women are required to message first with bumble. it pushes some women out of their comfort zone, but like tinder, you'll at least know that someone also swiped right on you before making a move. it also takes the pressure off of dudes who feel like they need to start the conversation every time. (we knew you were gonna ask, so yes, with same-sex matches either party can start things off.) matches expire after 24 hours so you can't agonize over that opening line for too long, and your match list won't be filled with people you forgot you matched with 57 weeks ago. this is clearly not the ideal setup for someone who wants to sit back and wait for the algorithm to have five hotties waiting each time the app is opened. you'll see pictures and short bios of potential matches in your area and can swipe depending on whether you're interested. it's a pretty close mock of tinder, except for the fact that bumble relieves the anxiety of accidentally swiping left on a hottie by letting you backtrack. bumble also offers a bff feature to find strictly platonic friends and a linkedin-ish networking feature called bizz in attempts to remind everyone that it's not just a hookup app. filtering by zodiac sign is also a thing as of 2019. the internet is divided over whether this will actually help you find people you'd get along with, as the feature only incorporates sun signs and anyone with basic astrology knowledge knows that sun signs aren't a tell-all. however, if someone just went through a messy breakup with a virgo, they have the right to not want to mess with a virgo for a while. best for career-oriented people image: pexels the good recent update makes questionnaire more fun • more mature user base than most dating sites • low chance of getting catfished the bad way too pricey • restricted to a few matches per day • distance filter starts at 50 miles • might get suggestions that don't match your filters the bottom line calling on a more established crowd, elitesingles offers a mature space for ambitious individuals to connect. 7. elite singles you can speak your love language *and* money language here, but it might be too hit-or-miss for the price. free version: yes three months: $69.95/month six months: $53.95/month one year: $39.95/month see details a difference in work ethic and professional schedules can really throw a wrench into even the most head-over-heels relationships. for those unwilling to budge when it comes to their partner's educational values and career goals, elitesingles attempts to offer more specificity where eharmony and match leave off. elitesingles loves to brag that 82% of their members are college grads, and with most of its members between 33-50 years old, we can pretty surely say you won't have to worry about accidentally coming across a fresh college graduate. college kids probably wouldn't be down to pay $30 to $70 a month on a dating site anyway, and that high subscription price is just another giveaway that elitesingles is targeted toward more established folks with a disposable income. rather than being thrown into an endless pool of profiles, elitesingles attempts to match you through the five factor personality test. via 29 algorithms, the site will try to find singles to complement your attachment style, selfishness, and more stuff that you should try to be honest about. the boring parts are broken up by chill questions like "do you like sleeping with the window open?" and "which of these foods would you like the best?" it takes forever and a lot of the questions are fake deep, but how else do you expect to be successful on a dating site? plus, you can take comfort in the fact that you won’t be dealing with fake or scam accounts, as elitesingles manually verifies all accounts with an upscale fraud detection system. however, though you can technically filter potential matches by profession (for example, a teacher looking to date another teacher), it’s difficult for any dating site to track down every single person lying about their job or how much money they make. best for people nervous about meeting irl image: pexels the good little to no effort required after making a profile • you won't get messages from people you haven't liked back • less judgement over the perfect profile picture the bad smaller cities might see the same users again and again • kind of expensive for the bland features it offers the bottom line this small user base allows cmb to find a handful of highly-compatible matches while you get on with your day. 8. coffee meets bagel skip the pressure of *constant* inbox notifications with cmb's smaller user base and authentic curated matches. free version: yes one month: $34.99/month three months: $24.99/month six months: $19.99/month one year: $14.99/month see details grabbing coffee is the low-pressure date idea that lets you skip trying to choose a dressy-but-not-too-dressy outfit for a concert or a restaurant. coffee meets bagel is aiming to bring that easy-going atmosphere to the world of dating apps. millions and millions of active users is usually a plus. it is nice to know that your options are virtually limitless, but things go from flattering to chaotic real fast when people hit you up 30 seconds after matching. this happens on eharmony and tinder alike — people want that connection, and they want it now. cmb's slow and steady approach is great for singles who are rusty, a bit more introverted, or who simply don't feel like scrolling every time they have a free minute. every day, cmb offers seven of its best matches (bagels) for you, chosen by your answers to prompts, who you said yes or no to in yesterday's batch, and who has already expressed interest with you, too. once there's a connection, the app sends you to a private chat room with icebreaker questions to get things started. not being bombarded with available hotties 24/7 gives you more time to contemplate whether you genuinely want to get to know or if you're just messaging them because you're bored. cmb's 2018 redesign also rearranged profiles to put less emphasis on selfies and a witty one-liner and more on personality and bios. best for gay men who hate grindr image: pexels the good backed by bumble ceo • users must verify identity on facebook • has a "friend mode" • safer space than grindr the bad less than half of grindr's user base • no real compatibility algorithm the bottom line grindr's aggressive atmosphere has some men turning to chappy, a respectful space where you can indicate intentions. 9. chappy while grindr's whole thing is hookup culture, chappy is for people who want something more real and verifies users through facebook. free version: yes see details gay dating apps are notorious for being intimidatingly horny. there's no doubt that grindr has permanently molded the culture during its decade as the number one gay dating app, but it also carved out an empty spot for a more relaxed space where gay men can seek a relationship that doesn't prioritize sex as the only goal. bumble's parent company filled that hole when it released chappy in 2017. grindr is known for uninvited dick pics and cringe-worthy opening lines that users would never say in real life. chappy provides a safe space for users who aren't quite ready to be thrown to the wolves. the site's whole ethos is built around "the chappy pledge," which asks users to vow to be respectful and to not shame or demean others based on looks. it also requires users to verify their identity through facebook to avoid catfishing. in june 2019, the app launched a "friend mode" in partnership with the trevor project, the leading nonprofit in preventing suicide and providing supportive communities for lgbtq youth. on top of its romantic relationships, chappy wants to cultivate supportive, platonic friendships within its user base — and simply make finding a gay gym buddy easier. to ensure that no one's intentions are getting mixed up, there's a sliding bar at the top of the app where you can indicate whether you're looking for mr. right (a long-term relationship) or mr. right now (a hookup asap). aside from that, the functionality essentially mimics tinder swiping through nearby people who are usually showing their face rather than their abs. there's no real algorithm to up the chances of compatibility even if you opt for mr. right, but at least it helps avoid the "what are we?" talk. these dating sites aren't necessarily reliable, but they do exist those listed above might have the crowds and fancy updates, but some people just find them more overwhelming than helpful. if you've tried one of the more popular sites and are itching to switch it up, these alternatives might bring something new to the table. best (mostly) free site image: pixabay the good huge number of users • google home integration • you can do a lot without paying the bad not bisexual friendly • sketchy history with data breaches • number of active users has dwindled due to competition • hella outdated layout the bottom line a long-time contender, pof has grown a huge user base without raising prices — but the cheapness shows. 10. plenty of fish it's rare to find a full site where most features are free, but the lack of safety features or a modern design is its downfall. free version: yes two months: $19.35/month four months: $12.75/month eight months: $9.99/month see details if we're being blunt, plenty of fish is probably one of the least memorable dating sites you'll see. it's plain, doesn't use a remarkable algorithm, and communication is done through regular messaging. but there's a reason the site boasts 4 million daily active users who send 1 billion messages per month (or so they say): it's easy, extremely straightforward, and pretty much completely free. some of those users may have dropped off in recent years due to pof's issues with privacy. in dec. 2019, the app was caught leaking users' personal info like photos and postal codes even after those profiles had been set to private. there have also been a handful of robberies and assaults reportedly linked to plenty of fish users meeting up with owners of fake profiles. such a lack of safety features is an especially worrisome crack in the pipes for users who had purposefully set their profiles to private after the website banned selfies with filters like snapchat's infamous dog ears. after registering for pof, hopeful daters take a personality test that then helps pof determine what they call "your relationship needs." while many dating sites tend to gloss over some of your criteria in order to find more people you may like, pof gives the "needs" option to at least lay down some dealbreakers. profile building also investigates more fun points like whether you're a cat or a dog person or whether you grew up as the oldest or youngest sibling. you know, the personality quirks that deep questionnaires about honesty just can't extract. claiming to be "the only 100% free dating site" is definitely pof's biggest bait for new users. but like any modern-day realist will tell you, nothing is free. you'll still have to pay for upgrades like tokens, which let users "highlight" their profiles so that they stand out to other users or send a "super yes" to users they're particularly interested in. however, pof does deserve some credit for being a full-service desktop site that doesn't make you pay to message or see who has messaged you. best for international daters image: pexels the good matchmaking based on subconscious swiping behavior • huge variety of people the bad potential to be hit with random fees • profile views might be inflated to make you feel better the bottom line if you're tired of the same tinder users always popping up, zoosk can definitely expand your horizons. 11. zoosk the unique matchmaking that follows your swipe patterns doesn't make up for zoosk's outdated design and dead profiles. free version: yes one month: $29.95/month three months: $19.98/month six months: $12.49/month see details what initially began as a facebook app developed in 2007 has grown into a company with 35 million users in more than 80 countries. rather than asking its users for dating questions, zoosk picks dates for its users based on their on-site activity. if you shoot a message to jane doe, for example, zoosk says it'll use that action to determine which types of profiles to show you going forward. there are a lot of flirty little ways to spark a conversation without having to actually give an opening line, and one special match is sent to you per day that is supposed to be "computationally intensive." when zoosk switched from a social media app to a legit dating site, it was more or less in a league of its own. incorporating "liking" photos and having a similar look to a facebook feed was super attractive to young, single people... in the early 2000s. the problem is that zoosk hasn't changed much since then. it's plain, has outdated graphics, and and there certainly aren't any modern tweaks like okcupid's politics-related ice breakers or match's option to make a video bio. despite ads being everywhere, people started opting for match group's offerings with more premium designs, less messy email notifications, and algorithms that take your personality type into account. zoosk struggled with unprofitability in 2015 and has had a rough go since. zoosk is free to sign up, but you'll need a paid subscription to do basically anything. not only is there a fee on the end of every message, but reddit users complain about random charges to their account and ignored requests to cancel their subscriptions. the company also uses its own form of currency called zoosk coins that are available for purchase. daters can use these for features like adding a "boost" to their own profiles in search or sending another user a "virtual gift." the whole coin system feels less like romance and more like you're playing some sort of pop-up ad game, but they're there. best for swingers image: pexels the good totally dedicated to swingers • iphone and android app • millions of active profiles the bad pricey • layout is outdated and kinda crappy the bottom line 99 flavors cuts the small talk and makes it easy for couples to find new playmates. 12. 99 flavors this swingers site lets couples add more *flavor* to the bedroom by signing up and hunting for matches together. one month: $40/month three months: $27/month one year: $20/month dating app compatibility: impossible to find, just stick to the desktop version $20 from 99 flavors couples spicing things up with the help of another couple is way more common than people think, despite what tinder may lead you to believe. when you advertise as a swinger on such a mainstream app, most of the bites you'll get are people looking for a threesome or people who don't quite understand the "partner swapping" concept. if you're tired of explaining the setup you want, it's time to make the switch to a site devoted to swinging. opt for 99 flavors, where everyone knows what's up and isn't afraid to make the first move. signing up as a couple has its benefits: the other users instantly know who's involved and if it's something they're interested in, both of you can search for partners, and both of you can participate in video chats and sexting. 99 flavor's thing is that it's always couples talking to couples — so there don't have to be any "oh yeah, my girlfriend is also here," type conversations that are almost inevitable on singles' apps. sign-up is quick, with simple questions like sexual orientation. but be warned: once you confirm your email address and choose a subscription plan, you will see genitals everywhere. it's your average ad-ridden splatter of nether region close-ups and x-rated self-timer photos — but hey, some people want that. let's just hope you like it enough to pay $20 a month for it. member profiles can be extremely detailed and there are about 93 million active profiles, so finding a match that's down for whatever won't take long — no matter what time it is. you can use the instant message function, exchange photos and videos, video chat, or save the dirty stuff for a meet-up irl. best for video hookups image: pexels the good chance to dabble with teledildonics • huge number of models and filters • free membership available the bad no pre-recorded videos • token system seems like a hassle the bottom line reliable cams sites are rare, but cams.com nails it with thousands of models, private shows, and more. 13. cams.com bored of porn? chat with real models in hd and test out bluetooth sex toys. dating app compatibility: impossible to find, just stick to the desktop version 100 tokens: $12 250 tokens: $26 500 tokens: $50 1,000 tokens: $99 see details take what you know about cams sites and erase it from memory — cams.com is the only one you'll ever need again. from teledildonics to customization tools to nearly limitless hd video chat, this is the site to visit if you're thinking about switching from porn to live streams. cam sites get a pretty bad rep around these parts. thanks to the myriad of obnoxious clips on pornhub and sites that steal your credit card info for shitty ripoff videos, the search for a reliable cams site may seem bleak. cams.com is looking to change what it means to be a cam girl or cam guy — askmen's review even says that it's becoming the gold standard of cams sites. instead of paying for a monthly membership, you have to buy tokens to do much of anything. it seems like much more of a hassle than paying for a monthly membership, but the token currency allows you to tip models, buy sex toys directly from the site, and pay for private shows. despite the fact that there's (obviously) a screen between you and the other person, cams.com goes above and beyond to ensure that things still get hot and heavy. with 14,000 female, male, and trans models (with new ones added every day), spicing things up from your usual type is a go — plus, there will always be someone online and ready to rumble. the assortment of hd live streams isn't even the best part here, and that's saying something. cams.com cranks the tension up a notch with teledildonics: a fancy word for bluetooth sex toys that make physical pleasure over distance possible. order a toy through lovesense or ohmibod, download the app, and let the model control the vibrations almost as if you were there. it's basically a one-night stand without even leaving the house. best for gay men tired of swiping image: pexels the good blogs are a sort of public forum for users • more personal than grindr the bad serious lack of users • looks more like an ad than a dating site the bottom line looking for a silver fox? gay friend finder is like a less populated but more mature grindr. 14. gay friend finder you won't find a hookup within the hour, but this is a mature alternative for those who feel grindr is too impersonal. free version: yes dating app compatibility: impossible to find, just stick to the desktop version one month of silver: $22.99/month three months of silver: $13.99/month one year of silver: $8.99/month one month of gold: $34.99/month three months of gold: $13.99/month one year of gold: $7.99/month see details grindr's massive user base and focus on finding local hookups make it almost untouchable, but the lack of profile details and impersonal conversations get old fast. just because you're looking for a hookup does not mean that you want to be greeted with a dick pic. gay friend finder is a slightly outdated but much slower-paced alternative for gay men who want to hook up, but still like to see a profile with some personality. in business since 1996, gay friend finder is one of the ogs in connecting local gay men — whether that be singles, couples, or groups. unlike grindr, which has at least five matches for you at any given time of the day, gay friend finder's user base is a bit of a desert. with an active user base of under 50,000 men, don't get your hopes up about an immediate hookup. however, the small circle of men who do have profiles are mature (the majority are 30 or older), and may be more likely to want an ongoing friends-with-benefits thing than a mindless booty call. it's a good thing there aren't many users to fish through, because filtering options are almost non-existent. for a site that's lacking in numbers, community is huge on gay friend finder. relatively in-depth user profiles, a collection of original blogs, and ways to interact other than private messaging give users a chance to bond with other gay men in a way that strictly hookup-oriented sites don't bother with. but don't worry — there's still plenty of heart rate-raising material here. more online dating content: best dating sites and apps for finding a hookup best dating sites for introverts best dating sites for geeks and nerds review: adultfriendfinder is porntastic and inclusive review: match is the site for finding something serious review: okcupid is fun, hip, and less lame than other sites topics: culture, dating, mashable deals, online dating, sex-relationships related roundups culture psa for side sleepers: your pillow is probably too flat. these are better. culture best indoor plants for people who suck at taking care of plants culture the best stainless steel cookware sets that you can get on amazon culture 7 (mostly) online guitar courses that are actually worth your time culture 7 of the most comfortable travel shoes for women related reviews culture what reviewers and bloggers have to say about the philips turbostar digital air fryer culture okcupid review 2019: a hip dating site that's way less lame than the competition lifestyle eharmony review: a long, annoying sign-up process makes for a long, happy marriage lifestyle match is a user-friendly dating site that's serious, but not too serious lifestyle ihookup review: a no-frills hookup app that's a mix of sexy and sketchy heads up: all products featured here are selected by mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. if you buy something, mashable may earn an affiliate commission. related roundups culture psa for side sleepers: your pillow is probably too flat. these are better. culture best indoor plants for people who suck at taking care of plants culture the best stainless steel cookware sets that you can get on amazon culture 7 (mostly) online guitar courses that are actually worth your time culture 7 of the most comfortable travel shoes for women related reviews culture what reviewers and bloggers have to say about the philips turbostar digital air fryer culture okcupid review 2019: a hip dating site that's way less lame than the competition lifestyle eharmony review: a long, annoying sign-up process makes for a long, happy marriage lifestyle match is a user-friendly dating site that's serious, but not too serious lifestyle ihookup review: a no-frills hookup app that's a mix of sexy and sketchy masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.