we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk techconsumer techappsvpn like follow 6 of the best vpns according to reddit redditors did the vetting, we scoured their findings. find out why nordvpn, protonvpn, mullvad, and more are the vpns that reddit users trust the most. share tweet share share best value nordvpn people come to nordvpn for the low prices, but stay for the range of servers and intuitive user interface. see details best vpn to share pia (private internet access) the design sucks, but the download speeds and 10-device allowance make pia great for sharing with a group. see details best for customized usage cyberghost some love it, some hate it — but reddit can't argue with the variety of servers and 45-day guarantee. see details editors independently select all products and services featured here. if you buy something through our links, we may receive a commission. by leah stodart2019-10-22 18:28:48 utc update: october 22, 2019, 12:41 p.m. edt this story has been updated following news that a nordvpn server was breached. update: sept. 19, 2019, 2 p.m. edt this post was originally published in 2018 but was updated to account for a shift in preferences according to reddit users. slow wifi and an exposed google history are an avid internet user's worst nightmares, but the obama-era rules that protect from these are under attack. if you weren't curious about the benefits of a vpn before, you definitely are now. regular people and presidential candidates alike have been obsessing over online privacy (or lack thereof) since june 11, 2018: the date that the fcc officially burned net neutrality to the ground. in april 2019, the house voted to pass the save the net act, which would reinstate the protections of net neutrality. it's an auspicious start, but without a vpn, your privacy is still at risk. see also: do you need a vpn? quite possibly. here's why. as more and more folks become paranoid about the vulnerability of their internet usage, google has become littered with vpn reviews and lists of the best vpns according to experts, tech publishers, and regular consumers alike. but if you wanted a more raw opinion — or thousands of them — from people with absolutely no filter, there's only one place to go: reddit. because who better to ask about the best private networks than tons of people who experiment with them all day, every day. what is a vpn, and why should i get one? a vpn (virtual private network) is an internet security subscription that can change your geolocation, take you off the company-owned server, and basically allow you to make up your own internet rules. vpns provide a way for people to get around internet roadblocks and censors, stream or download without worry, protect themselves from hackers, and keep their internet usage mostly private from third parties. they'll especially come in handy if providers like comcast do decide to stop playing nice with netflix, or if you're in a country where american netflix is blocked. no dns leaking is one of the main criteria reddit users use to decide whether they trust a vpn. think of a dns (domain name service) as the internet's phonebook: it's the service that transfers host names for humans to use (like mashable.com) to ip addresses for computers to use. a leaked dns essentially blabs your browsing history to whomever's watching on the other end — thus totally defeating the purpose of a vpn. reddit users also treasure a vpn's ability to support protocols like openvpn and wireguard. these are open-source software that use vpn techniques to create faster connections and switch encryption methods. reddit users also prefer vpns that support these protocols because they allow you to leave a vpn running on your mobile device without draining battery. reddit's decisions change every day, and measuring vpn popularity solely by the number of upvotes isn't exactly accurate or up to date. (does a downvote on a negative comment mean that the down-voter also thinks the service is shitty, or do they disagree with the comment itself?) instead, we pulled a few "best vpns on reddit" lists from vpnpro.com, vpnmentor.com, vpnranks, and more, and compared the most-talked-about vpns on those with own analysis of actual comments from redditors. if a vpn was listed on one of these websites but has been consistently shit-talked for the past year, it didn't make the cut. here are six of the best vpns, according to reddit: best free vpn image: protonvpn the good price based on features, not subscription length • dns protection and no logging • no data usage cap on free version the bad have to pay via third party like paypal the bottom line if you only need a vpn for one device, protonvpn's free service offers effective security and has no usage limit. 1. protonvpn free vpns can be iffy, but people on reddit are impressed with protonvpn's dns leak protection and unlimited data. free version: yes basic version: $4/month plus version: $8/month visionary version: $24/month see details reddit is the first to tell you that most free vpns are risky. they're begging for wonky connections and limited usage, not to mention data breaches — and it's always better to save your ass in the long run than save money up front. but one free vpn is turning heads by not capping data usage: meet protonvpn. unlike most vpns, where a lot of what you're paying for is data allowances, protonvpn doesn't put a limit on bandwidth usage (though you are limited to only one device at a time). just as surprisingly, speed is decent despite only having access to servers in the us, netherlands, and japan. luckily, it's all system-wide — not just in-browser like tor. this was reason enough for reddit user pcmasterrace to start a whole thread on why it's one of the best free vpns. protonvpn does make a point to warn users that the free servers are split up between users, so if things get slow, it's not on them — it's on you for not wanting to pay. reddit user ziw2gpe7x writes: "i have used expressvpn, nordvpn and protonvpn. all three are very fast, to the point that for normal internet use you won’t feel that your are connecting through a vpn. by normal use i mean browsing, seeing yt videos and such. out of these three i’d give the edge to protonvpn which is the one i am currently using. it is so fast that even when i forget to switch it off to play online (i.e. bf v) my experience is exactly the same as when it is off." reddit user mach04 said they switched to protonvpn even while having six months remaining on a paid pia subscription, so that's saying something. if you're still sketched out by a free vpn, protonvpn has two paid subscriptions. upgrades include having access to all countries, more devices, and security features like secure core technology. however, the general consensus seems to be that protonvpn is at its most impressive with the free version, and that you can get better service for your money elsewhere. best for mega privacy image: mullvad the good goes through third-party security audit • supports wireguard and openvpn protocols • owns all of its servers • don't need an email address to sign up the bad servers in all "14 eyes" countries • manually switching servers gets tedious • shitty iphone and android app the bottom line it ain't cute, but mullvad has clearly put all of its focus into user safety and anonymity. 2. mullvad reddit can't find a bad thing to say about mullvad, a no-frills vpn that keeps things hella anonymous. free version: no standard subscription: $5/month see details websites are wising up. one wary reddit user posed the question, "are vpns dead?" after websites like netflix or amazon detected and blocked a few of the older vpns. geolocation, dns leaks, faulty browsers, and too many more factors can render a vpn pretty much pointless, and new vpns have to get creative. just a second of scrolling through that nearly 50-comment thread shows multiple users recommending mullvad to combat these roadblocks. reddit users are constantly linking to vpn comparisons done on thatoneprivacysite.net, which ranks nearly 20 pages of vpns on nine criteria. mullvad is one of the only vpns to score an almost-perfect "good" ranking (labeled by the color green), while most others only land green in two or three categories. a kill switch, no-log policy, and ownership of its own servers make it really stand out. plus, you don't even need an email address to sign up — mullvad only knows you as a randomly-generated account number. reddit user criminales78 writes: "i'm a customer since 2015, i've never been disappointed by them. i use them mainly for privacy reason but i do torrent too and i get full speed (even better when you use wireguard), i really like everything about them. if you really want a fast and privacy oriented vpn, then you found the correct one (and they have refund if something don't work for you)." this entire thread backs the recommendation. in the midst of click bait and vague logging policies, mullvad makes it clear that they genuinely care about you feeling secure. the site keeps an extremely transparent faq, security implementations, and blog, giving the full names of the site's owners as well as titles of the legal entity operating the site. though it's beloved more for its privacy than anything else, reddit users seem to be satisfied with speeds. the option to use wireguard makes torrenting even faster. best value image: nordvpn the good military-grade encryption • easy interface and attractive server map • up to six simultaneous devices • lower-than-average prices the bad no support for split tunneling • burst of popularity has overloaded servers • aggressive advertising and questionable sale prices • reported leak prevention issues the bottom line once the leader of the pack, nordvpn has faced some recent backlash — but it offers the smoothest interface for the best price. 3. nordvpn people come to nordvpn for the low prices, but stay for the range of servers and intuitive user interface. free version: no monthly : $11.95/month one year: $6.99/month two years: $3.99/month three years: $2.99/month see details note: nordvpn has announced that it suffered a breach in march 2018 when a hacker exploited an insecure remote management system at a finnish data center from which the company was renting servers. however, we still think it's a strong contender in the vpn space. click here to learn more. now, we know y'all didn't think nordvpn would be left out. this provider is like the casper mattress of the vpn world with the way that it targets millennials with no shame: podcasts, youtube, and cnn have all been the site of nord's ads, and it's likely the vpn you'd sign up for if you didn't feel like doing any other research. the aggressive marketing has translated to "selling out" according to some users, but there's no denying that it's still one of the most-backed vpns on reddit. nordvpn used to be the whole package for a fraction of the cost. it was hyped for its blistering speeds, allowance for six simultaneous devices, double encryption, and ultra-low costs. but resentment is growing: reddit now seems to be split, with half asserting that nordvpn is still the best and half asserting that nordvpn is trash. former users have brought up issues like dropped connections, blocks from amazon and netflix, leaked ips, and more sketchy stuff. some say the problems can be attributed to overloaded servers due to the influx of new customers from nord's obsessive advertising. but take all of the complaints with a grain of salt. the number of good things about nordvpn still outweigh the bad — it's hard to find a vpn with a smoother interface. moreover, a ton of redditors have come to the conclusion that the hullabaloo over its recent data breach is all a big "misunderstanding." another appealing factor is the easy af setup across all devices: windows, mac, linux, ios, android, fire tv, and more. reddit users like sacredkeep put emphasis on how strong the windows application is compared to competitors like private internet access. best vpn for raw speed image: express vpn the good unlimited bandwidth • low ping for gaming • especially great for china • now allows five simultaneous devices the bad mobile apps aren't very smooth • ridiculously expensive the bottom line regular torrenters will freak over these speeds and mass server selection, but the service doesn't come cheap. 4. expressvpn the steep prices will seem wack to beginners but worth it to gamers and streamers who need steady speed. free version: no monthly : $12.95/month six months: $9.99/month one year: $8.32/month see details if you were disappointed by all of the nord hype, expressvpn may win your heart. the two are forever duking it out for a top spot, as we've found that they're the two most directly compared vpns in thread titles. both are mostly endorsed for their speed, but while nordvpn's servers have slowed due to a surge of new users, expressvpn's speed stays top notch. whether your need for speed is thirsty enough to pay almost double what competitors charge? that's another story. gamers, 4k streamers, and downright impatient people will likely prefer express solely for its dependable speeds. nord can be just as fast, but it's more susceptible to interrupted connections. a few people have also mentioned that expressvpn automatically reconnects after a switch from wifi to data, while nord records manually going into the app. it's been reddit user atechatwork's go-to vpn for traveling: "i've been doing the digital nomad thing for the last 3 years, so i can give you my experience on nord vs express in about 15 different countries. expressvpn wins every time for speed. i've never been able to get the full speed of my internet connection using nord, whereas express was always 100% speed. i also have much better experience with express on 3g/4g, and on airport wifi. and especially in countries like china - express wins again every time." another user, icurate, also hasn't had any problems: "i am about to renew after my first year with them and have had zero issues. speed is consistent and when i switch to a different continent there is minimal lag. i do leak tests sporadically and have not found one. they aren't the cheapest, but in my book they are among the best." the pricey beast also ranks highly for its international army of servers and, according to pcmag, has the most choices for server locations. (this entire thread is basically just people in a ton of different countries confirming that express works for them.) the company makes it a goal to keep customers informed about the servers, is transparent about its inability to match users to ip address activity, and gives regular lengthy updates similar to blog posts. the allowed number of simultaneous devices was upped from three to five in june 2019, amending one of reddit's biggest gripes with express. best vpn to share image: pia vpn the good allows 10 simultaneous connections • strong security and ad blocking • accept many cryptocurrencies including zec the bad the user interface is not great • captcha issues • geohopping barely works the bottom line pia doesn't exactly lead in any categories, but the ease of setup and content downloading make for easy casual use. 5. pia (private internet access) the design sucks, but the download speeds and 10-device allowance make pia great for sharing with a group. monthly: $6.95/month six months: $5.99/month one year: $3.33/month see details the war on shared streaming site passwords trudges on, but the ability to share a vpn can lessen the load. by allowing a whopping 10 simultaneous connections, pia makes it especially easy to split the cost between a couple, a few roommates, or even a whole family. torrenting is also relatively painless, with pia's unlimited bandwidth and decent speeds on kodi and real debrid. you'll need to do that hard downloading for most content, because pia's geohopping for international streaming is shit. private internet access — also known as pia — attempts to give reliability vibes with its home page (children on bikes was an interesting choice), but it may scream "overcompensation" to some. the emphasis on "privacy" in the vpn's name seems to hold up on reddit, as users seem to be satisfied with its dns and ipv6 leak prevention. if pia is your crew's first vpn, you'll be glad to know that pia is easily configurable and doesn't kill your devices to install. reddit user cspjohn writes: "i have been using pia for two years now. actually, i was really skeptic when i first went to the website. it had a stock photo of a family, shady "we are the best" text all around. but hey, i subscribed to give it a try. and it worked wonderful. pia has been an incredibly solid, fast and reliable vpn provider for me through 2 years. never had an issue with them whatsoever." mashable's ray wong (who chose pia as number one for staying anonymous online) writes: "you get your standard secure vpn account, encrypted wi-fi, p2p, ipv6 leak protection, a vpn kill switch, and a whole lot more. private internet access vpn sure as hell isn't a sexy app you want to open all the time (so just set it to automatically open when you log in), but what it lacks in aesthetics it makes up for with a long list of features. it also has a solid backbone, claiming over 3,100 servers in 28 countries worldwide." a glance at pia's out-of-date landing page is enough of a preview as to what the desktop and mobile interfaces look like. it makes up for its lack in aesthetics with reliable features, but some users thought the design was so poor that they had to switch services. whatever you care about, i guess. best for customized usage image: cyberghost the good 45-day money-back guarantee • different servers for different usage • unique features like custom device connection the bad pricey • patchy customer service the bottom line because of its abundance of features but reported issues, this is a good one to try with that 45-day money back guarantee. 6. cyberghost some love it, some hate it — but reddit can't argue with the variety of servers and 45-day guarantee. monthly: $12.99/month one year: $5.99/month two years: $3.69/month three years: $2.75/month see details we like turning to reddit for the lowdown on vpns because reddit users vet those vpns harder than anyone. but that also means that reddit can be overly critical about aspects of a vpn that the rest of the population wouldn't care about. this seems to be the case with cyberghost: one of the longest-standing vpns. the theme we're seeing here is that when it's good, it's really good, but when it's bad, it's really bad. reddit has a love-hate relationship with it, but it was mentioned too often to be left off the list. folks new to vpns may really want to consider cyberghost. instead of all servers getting used for all tasks, it has different servers dedicated to general web surfing, p2p, and more. that way, people who just want an extra layer of privacy on google aren't hogging speed from people who are torrenting. unique features like a special linux app and ipv5 support and dns, ip, and webrtc leak prevention also help users get what they want out of the service. oh yeah, and there's no bandwidth limit and no logging. reddit user wizardly_flepsotard feels like it's a pretty good general purpose pick: "i've had it for about 6 months and works well. they have different servers for streaming, for torrent and for general surf and turf. i had some connection issues and got a reply from support within 6hours. the fact you can have 7 log ins on one account is sweet. i have don't use it for unlocking netflix a lot, but the 5 - 10 times i have used it it has worked no problem on pc." another user, privacycaringweirdo, had the opposite experience: "i supported them on their starts but it was a mistake, they are running vpn traffic through your computer, even if you have premium this is what they does. i always got slow speed, they always had [redacted] support making excuses worst service ever, not speaking of leaking your dns, crashdowns without any warnings so your entire traffic is unprotected. complete bs service" dang, "complete bs service" is pretty harsh. however, some users mentioned that it's a good idea to test out every vpn service with a money-back guarantee just to see how they work, because why not? cyberghost's 45-day one allows newbies to test the waters before wasting money, and more skeptical users can experiment with speeds before getting in too far. editor’s note: ipvanish is owned by j2 global, the parent company of ziff davis, mashable’s publisher. any j2 products featured on mashable are covered independently by our content team. topics: apps, internet privacy, mashable deals, reddit, tech, vpn (virtual private networks) related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound heads up: all products featured here are selected by mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. if you buy something, mashable may earn an affiliate commission. related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.