evernote uses cookies to enable the evernote service and to improve your experience with us. to learn more, check out our cookie policy. by clicking ok or continuing to use our site, you agree that we can place these cookies. ok click "ok" to return to yinxiang.com ok evernote plans basic take great notes premium unclutter your life business bring your team together compare plans find the evernote solution that fits your needs features sync and organize keep your notes handy web clipper a save button for the web templates make better notes, faster pdf & doc search find information anywhere spaces bring your team together search handwriting find text in any note document scanning go paperless with evernote integrations connect your favorite apps help & learning about us about us learn about the company careers opportunities at evernote why evernote save, sync and share it all contact us need help? get in touch download or log in evernote download or log in plans basic premium business compare plans features sync and organize web clipper templates pdf & doc search spaces search handwriting document scanning integrations help & learning about us about us why evernote careers contact us sign up for evernote today capture ideas and inspiration from anywhere and manage tasks with ease. sign up free with google or by clicking below, i agree to the terms of service and privacy policy. your notes. organized. effortless. take notes anywhere. find information faster. share ideas with anyone. meeting notes, web pages, projects, to-do lists—with evernote as your note taking app, nothing falls through the cracks. sign up for free focus on what matters most manage everything from big projects to personal moments. capture ideas and inspiration in notes, voice, and pictures. never lose track of your tasks and deadlines. at work, at home, and everywhere in between evernote’s plans and pricing are designed to fit your needs. remember everything important a single place for your notes, ideas, lists and reminders. evernote basic → stay organized, wherever you are plan, keep records, and manage projects from any device–even offline. evernote premium → collaborate with your team manage projects, deadlines, clients, and meetings with ease. evernote business → compare evernote plans how it works sign up create your free account and choose the plan that fits your needs. add content type notes, add attachments, clip web pages, or record memos. all in one place. find everything organize your notes, your way. use notebooks, tags, or our powerful search to find everything you need quickly. get things done manage projects, take meeting notes, set reminders, and edit documents. start your free trial popular features web clipper multi-device sync search handwriting notebooks & tags document scanning pdf & document search sign up for evernote today capture ideas and inspiration from anywhere and manage tasks with ease. sign up free with google or by clicking below, i agree to the terms of service and privacy policy. product why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features web clipper templates spaces integrations notes sync pdf & doc search search handwriting document scanning notebooks & tags community our community certified consultants beta program developers events forum support help & learning troubleshooting blog company about us careers contact us sign up or log in choose a language: english (us) bahasa indonesia bahasa melayu dansk deutsch english (us) español español (américa latina) français italiano nederlands polski português (brasil) português (portugal) suomi svenska tiếng việt türkçe русский العربية ภาษาไทย 한국어 中文（简体） 中文（繁體） 日本語 facebook twitter medium instagram youtube linkedin © 2020 evernote corporation. all rights reserved. security legal privacy