wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins best wordpress plugins often beginners get confused when trying to pick the best wordpress plugins amongst so many that are available. we frequently get questions like what is the best wordpress plugin for seo, social media, performance, etc. unlike other sites, wpbeginner test and review the best wordpress plugins and offer step by step installation guides to make your life easier. we know that everyone hates top 10 wordpress plugins list, so we have taken a different approach. we do the research, so you don't have to. how to sell gift cards with wordpress and boost your revenue posted on march 25th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to sell gift cards on your website? selling gift cards for your store, service, or digital products is an easy way for businesses to boost revenue and improve cash flow. in this article, we’ll share three different ways that you can use… read more » how to create a contact form with multiple recipients (4 ways) posted on march 23rd, 2020 by editorial staff do you want your contact form to send notifications to different people in your company? perhaps you want all messages to get copied to your assistant, or you want specific messages to be sent to different departments, or maybe you simply want to send users… read more » how to bulk convert classic blocks to gutenberg in wordpress posted on march 11th, 2020 by editorial staff several of our readers have asked how to convert old wordpress post content into the new gutenberg (block) format in wordpress. after you update to any version above wordpress 5.0, your older post and page content will show up inside a classic block in the… read more » how to enable maintenance mode for woocommerce posted on february 26th, 2020 by editorial staff recently some of our readers asked us if it’s possible to put a woocommerce store in maintenance mode without affecting other parts of a website? the good news is that it’s not only possible, but it’s also very easy to do. in this article, we’ll… read more » forget powerpoint, how to create presentations in wordpress posted on january 28th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking to create a powerpoint presentation on your wordpress site, but not sure where to start? what if we told you that you can now use wordpress to design and share presentations and leave powerpoint behind. in this article, we will show you… read more » how to send a custom welcome email to new users in wordpress posted on january 21st, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to send a custom welcome email to new users in wordpress? if you allow user registration on your wordpress site, then each new user receives an email to set up their wordpress password. however, they don’t receive a proper welcome email specific… read more » how to clean up your wordpress media library (2 easy methods) posted on january 6th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to clean up your wordpress media library? wordpress makes several copies of media files that up load, and over time this leads to a ton of files in storage that are not used anywhere on your website. cleaning up your wordpress media… read more » how to create a dropbox upload form in wordpress posted on december 26th, 2019 by editorial staff do you want to create a dropbox upload form in wordpress? a contact form with a file upload option could be hard to manage if you are getting too many attachments. you can connect your form to dropbox and upload those files directly to the… read more » how to track wordpress category and tag analytics (easy way) posted on december 24th, 2019 by editorial staff do you wish to track the wordpress category and tag analytics? by default, most website analytics solutions tell you about your most popular posts and pages, but very few show any information about your archive pages like categories and tags. category and tag pages can… read more » how to redirect users after successful login in wordpress posted on december 18th, 2019 by editorial staff have you ever wanted to redirect users to a specific page after they login to your wordpress site? depending on the user’s role, wordpress would either take them to the dashboard or their profile section in the wordpress admin area. in this guide, we’ll show… read more » 1 2 3 … 69 » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.