we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk techconsumer techkitchen & home like follow cut the cord: 7 of the best cordless vacuums for hassle-free cleaning these cordless vacuum cleaners get the job done with cord-free convenience and power. share tweet share share best overall dyson cyclone v10 absolute vacuum powerful, versatile and lightweight, this is the ultimate cleaning device for households that want the best. $699.99 from amazon best for pet hair dyson v7 animal cordless vacuum specially designed for homes with pets, the dyson v7 animal tackles pet hair like a boss. $399.99 from amazon best for multi-surface cleaning bissell airram 1984 cordless vacuum the bissell airram 1984 boasts high performance and innovative features for cleaning across different surfaces. $199 from amazon editors independently select all products and services featured here. if you buy something through our links, we may receive a commission. by stephanie valera2018-10-03 18:30:34 utc if you’ve been wary of cordless vacuums in the past because of poor suction power and battery life, listen up: the cordless vacuum cleaners of today have come a long, long way. they’re more powerful, more convenient, and run longer than ever before, stacking up pretty well against their corded, clunky upright and canister counterparts. see also: 7 of the best dyson vacuums that will (hopefully) make all your cleaning dreams come true and who can argue with the convenience a cordless vacuum brings into the icky task of cleaning? no plugging and unplugging (and plugging and unplugging again) as you clean different rooms. and no struggling to chase down pet hair or dust bunnies hiding in the trickiest spots of your home. plus, they’re easier to store away into hiding—perfect for tinier living. our favorite stick models are also just fun (yes, really) to use. they’re sleek, lightweight, and comes with useful attachments and tools. some even transform into handheld vacs with one easy click. they’re enough to make cleaning a chore to look forward to—or at least, make it less terrible. here are our top picks for best cordless vacuum cleaners. best overall image: amazon the good powerful suction • quickly converts to a handheld • hygienic bin emptying the bad expensive the bottom line it’s not cheap, but the dyson cyclone v10 absolute is packs unbelievable power, versatility, and convenience. our advice: check for sales. 1. dyson cyclone v10 absolute vacuum powerful, versatile and lightweight, this is the ultimate cleaning device for households that want the best. weight: 5.9 pounds run time: up to 60 minutes bin capacity: 0.2 gallon tools included: torque drive, soft roller, mini soft dusting brush, quick release mini motorized tool, crevice tool, and combination tool $699.99 from amazon at just under six pounds, the cyclone v10 absolute will make all your cleaning dreams come true. that is, if your dreams include the ability to clean carpets, hardwood floors, blinds, ceiling fans, and hard-to-reach crevices with absolute ease. its power can also rival any of its upright or canister counterparts. the v10’s torque driver cleaner head is dyson’s most powerful yet, driving dirt from carpets like it’s nbd. but it’s also gentle on hard floors as it’s engineered with soft woven nylon and anti-static carbon fiber. it runs up to an impressive 60 minutes on the lower setting, so you’ll easily be able to do a full cleaning without the need to recharge. car needs a good cleaning? the cyclone v10 also transforms to a handheld. emptying the bin is also a breeze. its “point and shoot”mechanism lets you hygienically eject dust and debris deep into your bin, in one action—no need to touch the dirt. amazon reviewer matthew mintun writes: “the v10 absolute doesn't disappoint. while it's weird to get used to holding this tiny piece of machinery, it really does an amazing job. i vacuumed with my dyson floor vacuum first and then with the v10, it was incredible how much dog fur it still picked up! i was pretty grossed out to be honest, to think i lived in this atmosphere for this long ‘thinking’ it was clean is nuts! i love all the attachments too, they are all top-notch and well made. i feel like i can tackle my entire house with this bad boy. and it's lightweight! i use it on the lowest setting and it still picks up a ton (and to be clear, when i did my old vs new test, the v10 was on the lowest setting too!) i don't think i'll ever need the high or medium setting. but i did try the highest setting for a few seconds and literally felt like the vacuum was attached to the floor, that's how hard it sucked (in a good way)!” best for pet hair image: amazon the good designed for pet owners • lightweight • great for carpets and hard floors the bad battery life not the best for big cleaning jobs the bottom line say goodbye to pet hair with this lightweight cordless vacuum that lets you easily clean hard-to-reach places. 2. dyson v7 animal cordless vacuum specially designed for homes with pets, the dyson v7 animal tackles pet hair like a boss. weight: 5.28 pounds run time: up to 30 minutes bin capacity: 0.14 gallon tools included: mini motorhead, mini soft dusting brush, crevice tool, combination tool $399.99 from amazon ahh, pets: they’re fun, loyal, and oh-so-furry, which means you need to tackle pet hair cleanup on a regular basis. don’t fret. once again, dyson comes to the rescue with the v7 animal cordless vacuum cleaner, which is engineered specially for homes with pets. its powerful motor makes quick work of hair, dust and pet dander, both on carpets and hard floors. and you can just as quickly dispose of it, thanks to its built-in dirt ejector. but we also love all the tools and attachments that come with the super-sleek device. the combination tool makes it easy to switch between surfaces; the crevice tool helps with precise cleaning around edges and narrow gaps (because we all know pesky pet hair can hide in the trickiest of spots); and the soft dusting brush is gentle on delicate surfaces like screens. best of all is it’s just so easy to use. amazon reviewer desert dave writes: “i really couldn't believe the testimonials i'd read about this vacuum. but, now that i have one, i believe all that they say about it. it is so easy to use. it is lightweight…. i've had it about a month now and use it every day! it does great on carpet and bare floor without having to make any adjustments or change any tool heads. the high suction setting will pick up small rocks and sand without problems. the low suction setting is perfect for carpets and gets them really clean without picking them up, something the high suction setting will do if you're not very careful using it. i've used all the attachments and they are very handy. the fact that it turns into a hand vac makes it perfect for vacuuming the car and upholstered furniture … my wife has been angry with me for years for not being more proactive about vacuuming the house … but, now, i vacuum the whole house every day and enjoy doing so. filling that canister up with cat hair and dust is very satisfying.” best for multi-surface cleaning image: amazon the good great for carpets and floors • easy maneuverability • led lights for effective cleaning the bad no accessory tools included the bottom line this is a great choice if you need an effective, all-around cordless vacuum with a price that won’t make you run for the hills. 3. bissell airram 1984 cordless vacuum the bissell airram 1984 boasts high performance and innovative features for cleaning across different surfaces. weight: 7.75 pounds run time: up to 40 minutes bin capacity: 0.6 liter tools included: none $199 from amazon a vacuum cleaner can be a big investment, so choosing a versatile machine that can work on different surfaces is key. enter, the bissell airram 1984. this workhorse from bissell effectively handles all the usual vacuuming tasks on multiple flooring surfaces, including carpets, area rugs, and hard floors. it features an innovative power foot design and multi-surface brush roll that provide superior carpet cleaning and scratch-free hard floor cleaning. another major perk of this cord-free vacuum is its maneuverability. need to reach under and around furniture? no problem. the airram’s swivel steering and lay flat handle make it easy. and you can also unleash your inner clean freak with its bright, wide-range led lights, which illuminate the hard floors so you can see the dirt and get all the dirt. dust bunnies hiding under the bed are no match for this cleaning beast. amazon reviewer m.l. asselin writes: “the bissell 1984 air ram cordless vacuum is a handy, effective stick vacuum that does a great job picking up pet hair and dirt from both carpeted and hard surfaces. the dirt collection bin lifts out without any trouble and is designed for ease of use: a slider pushes the hair and dirt right out. the lithium ion battery holds its charge splendidly; with light use the charge will hold for weeks. a bright led light illumines your path. the vacuum’s swivel head and the handle’s being able to be lowered but not quite flat makes it easier to get to hard-to-reach places. because of the air ram cordless vacuum’s lightweight, i am even able to use it on carpeted stairs effectively. lightweight, quick to assemble and store, and simple to clean, this vacuum is quickly becoming a frequently used tool in our household. i’m not ready yet to give up my more heavy-duty vacuum cleaner, but the air ram cordless vacuum will likely be my go-to device.” best lightweight image: amazon the good lightweight • affordable • good suction power the bad can’t stand in upright position the bottom line this is an ultra-light and affordable option that offers multi-floor cleaning performance. 4. deik 2-in-1 cordless vacuum cleaner weight: 4.7 pounds run time: up to 25 minutes bin capacity: 0.5 liters tools included: wall mount and mounting accessories $109.99 from amazon weighing in at less than five pounds, you’ll find yourself easily zipping around to the left, to the right, to the center, and anywhere in between with this lightweight cleaning machine. need to reach up high in a crevice in the ceiling? the deik 2-in-1 makes it easy to get those debris and cobwebs on the ceiling fan, without having to give yourself an arm workout. the removable hand vacuum is also great for cleaning up small messes in and around tight spaces. it may not have the brand-name recognition of a dyson or bissell, but this workhorse provides a deep, thorough clean and impressive multi-surface capabilities. you can quickly transition from hard flooring to area rugs and low pile carpeting with the click of a button. it’s convenience that makes cleaning a heck of a lot more enjoyable. many reviewers have been pleasantly surprised about how the deik 2-in-1 stacked up against the big-name brands. amazon reviewer james writes: “this is the best vacuum i have ever owned and i’ve owned a few different brands. i was borrowing my friend’s dyson before i purchased this one… [this] works amazing on both hardwood and carpet (which surprisingly is hard to find in a vacuum). the canister is super easy to empty and see when full. i’m a tad ocd when it comes to cleaning so a good vacuum is a must have for me. i have zero complaints and i just love it! amazon reviewer tw was “skeptical at first but was won over.” they write: “i use this mostly on hardwood, tile, and vinyl, and one room of carpet. three weeks of using this daily here is what i have found. battery life is good enough for 650 square feet of hard surface. recharge time is 4 hours. it is very light weight and extremely maneuverable. it is low profile enough to go under most furniture. suction power is really good. it will actually pull the free floating vinyl in our bathroom up to the point it is harder to vacuum due to the suction. i have two samoyed dogs that shed constantly and this picks up their fur very well off of hard surfaces, area rugs, and carpet on one pass. it disassembles easily and is easy to clean the filters … i liked [this vacuum cleaner] so much i bought a second for the lower level figuring i could not lose at the price considering the competition is as much as 4x the price.” best budget pick image: walmart the good budget-friendly • easy to maneuver • converts to hand vacuum the bad can’t stand in an upright position • not the best on pet hair the bottom line you won’t break the bank with this cordless vacuum that tackles quick clean-ups with ease. 5. dirt devil reach max 3-in-1 cordless vacuum weight: 6.4 pounds run time: up to 20 minutes bin capacity: 0.7 liter tools included: crevice tool, powered cleaning wand, carpet nozzle, and wall mount $99 from walmart you don’t have to pay more than $100 for a cordless vacuum that can bust some serious dust. case in point: this affordable dirt devil reach max 3-in-1 stick vac can power through the messes in your home with powerful suction and lightweight maneuverability. what do we love about this little guy? what about its versatility? the dirt devil reach max is easy to steer under and around furniture and other obstacles for thorough cleaning. it also quickly converts to a cordless hand vacuum for stair, upholstery, and car cleaning. an included crevice tool attaches to tackle tight spaces and hard-to-reach places. while it doesn’t have the longest run time (it runs up to 20 minutes with one charge) and may not work the best for big messes, the premium brush roll on this little guy works great for quick clean-ups on both carpets and hardwood floors. amazon customer kevin curtis says: “fantastic cordless vacuum for the price. this unit works great. holds a charge for at least 15 to 20 minutes running at high speed (it has a medium and high speed switch). it's light enough to hang on a hook. easy to attach the crevice cleaner or stair sweeper. well thought out one button trap door to empty the collection canister. much better than detaching the whole thing and having some stuff inevitably leak or spill as with many other cordless or corded vacuums. this is not an electrolux type of high power, high capacity vacuum, but it does an excellent job for quick touch up, gets into tough to reach spots and results in a cleaner home because we use it more often. no dragging out heavy vacuums and going from plug to plug with them. i'd suggest adding led's to the motorized brush head as a modest improvement, but that's it. well done dirt devil team.” amazon reviewer juanita sorenson writes: “i love this vacuum. it is half the price of a dyson and has lots of power. i have put it in the motor home where it has to pick up stickers, small rocks, dog hair, dried grass, dirt... you get the picture. with 2 speeds it has enough power to pick all of that up. has 2 attachments besides the powered main head. it doesn't have a wall hanger but i just keep it in the closet. i have tried several cordless stick vacuum's at various prices over the years and this one beats them all!” best for allergy sufferers image: amazon the good good suction power • smart tech features • easy to maneuver • filter captures pet dander and dust the bad no extra filters included the bottom line need to bust dust and pet dander to keep house allergen-free? the black+decker powerseries anti-allergen vacuum is your best bet. 6. black+decker powerseries pro cordless 2in1 anti-allergen vacuum weight: 8 pounds run time: up to 60 minutes bin capacity: 1 liter tools included: 3-in-1 accessory too, anti-allergen filter, long brush, nozzle/brush $179.99 from amazon if you or a family member suffer from allergies, you know the importance of keeping the house dust- and dander-free. and you also know that a simple dustbuster just don’t cut it. consider the black+decker powerseries pro cordless anti-allergen vacuum. with a high-performance filter, this 2-in-1 vacuum is optimized to capture 99.99 percent of allergens, such as pet dander and dust particles. the filter is washable and reusable and you can purchase replacement filters to improve vacuum performance (its filtersense technology notifies you when it’s time to replace the filter). but there’s more to this vac than an effective filter. its 60 minutes of run time (with canister in low speed) means you can tackle more messes in the house, and its swivel steering design makes it easy to maneuver in tight spaces. it’s equipped with other smart features, including autosense technology, which automatically adjusts suction from bare floor to thick carpet to optimize run time, and an led light which illuminates cleaning surfaces and ensures you bust the dust more thoroughly. amazon reviewer mack writes: “[this] works great at grabbing up dust and pet fur from our hardwood floors! as an allergy person, this is very important to me. not as heavy and loud as our lightweight electrical vacuum and is easy to clean. i've had this product for awhile and it still works really well—i use it everyday!” midnight122, another amazon customer, says: “black+decker's powerseries pro cordless lithium 2in1 stick vacuum is a great little machine to have around the house. being cordless, yet able to clean up messes with a decent amount of power really makes it handy… you can adjust the power level (which also shortens battery life), which is nice. sometimes you are cleaning up a small mess that does not require much power. but other times, you need the extra suction, for instance pet hair. i find myself using it more on the higher power settings and more for spot cleaning than full cleaning sessions. it's also great for stairs, although, again, i use it on the highest power setting. it's nice and light and easy to operate… there are plenty of attachments to cover just about any job that you have. the container is a good size and will hold a decent amount before having to empty. i often find myself using the removable canister. i just love the ease of use without cords. i really like having this little guy around the house!” best for run time image: amazon the good two batteries extend run time • folds for compact storage • easily transforms to handheld vacuum • switch between carpets and hard floors the bad heavier than most cordless stick vacuums • expensive the bottom line with flexible features and impressive run time, this portable powerhouse will become your go-to for cleaning messes. 7. shark ion f80 multiflex cordless stick vacuum weight: 14.85 pounds run time: up to 80 minutes bin capacity: 0.3 quarts tools included: 3-in-1 accessory too, anti-allergen filter, long brush, nozzle/brush $444.66 from amazon need a cordless vacuum that keeps going, and going, and going? the shark ion f80 is for you. it’s powered by two, removable, rechargeable lithium ion batteries which provide up to total 80 minutes (yep, you read that right) of run time—just switch the battery and keep cleaning. that’s not the only impressive thing about the shark ion f80. its flexible reach technology gives you the ability to bend the wand to easily clean hard-to-reach areas like under furniture, while its duo clean technology, which features two brush rolls, tackles fine dust and large debris on both carpets and hard floors. a touch of a button transforms this workhorse into a handheld vacuum so you can get your vacuuming on above the floor and into hard-to-reach spots or your car. it’s not magic, but it definitely feels like it. and if you’re short on space, the shark got you covered. you can easily fold the vacuum over for compact storage. amazon reviewer s. trasny writes: “this is the most versatile vacuum we’ve ever owned and it’s as powerful as any i’ve ever used. it’s duoclean technology is made for our home and its mix of hardwood, laminate, tile and rugs. changing operation to move from one type of floor to another is a simple push of a button. the suction is powerful, whatever the scenario. adding to the versatility is the shark’s ability to fold (again, a push of a button) and its low profile. using it as a stand up, it will flex to slide beneath most of our furniture. it converts from standup, losing the powerhead and its rollers, for use as a handheld vacuum. included are wand and brush accessories, so that i can clean up close or in far corners. it’s the first battery operated full size vacuum i’ve ever used and i have to say i’m very impressed. the power and length of time available were my only concerns, but the shark provides both in more than sufficient quantities. overall, i can say that i’ve happier with the shark’s performance and ease than i’ve been with any other vacuum, and i’ve owned more than a few. recommended.” topics: mashable deals, tech, vacuums related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound heads up: all products featured here are selected by mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. if you buy something, mashable may earn an affiliate commission. related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.