we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk techconsumer techkitchen & home like follow these 8 vacuum cleaners are the best for dealing with pet hair from canister to cordless, these vacuum cleaners are tough on pet hair and easy on you. share tweet share share best overall dyson ball animal 2 specifically designed for tackling pet hair at a price that won’t break the bank, dyson’s ball animal 2 canister vacuum is an outstanding choice for pet owners. $499.99 from amazon best for your budget shark navigator lift-away professional upright nv356e an extremely affordable option that still gets the job done when it comes to picking up pet hair—and more. $249.99 from amazon best for everyday use eufy robovac 11s this robotic vacuum is the perfect solution for pet owners looking for daily pet hair maintenance with zero effort. $224 from amazon editors independently select all products and services featured here. if you buy something through our links, we may receive a commission. by jennifer labracio2019-03-04 21:24:37 utc watching your dog bound over to lick your face every time you walk in the door or chilling on the couch with your cat purring at your feet are some pretty awesome perks of having a pet. but you know what’s not so awesome? pet hair. all over your house. all the time. see also: 7 of the best dyson vacuums that will (hopefully) make all your cleaning dreams come true if you’re a pet owner, you know that staying on top of pet hair cleanup is no joke. from your couch pillows to your carpets, pet hair gets everywhere. and even some of the best, most powerful vacuum cleaners don’t cut it. you need a vacuum that’s specifically designed for pet owners and that’s engineered to pick up hair without clogging, manage airborne dander and other allergens, and leave your house hair-free with minimal effort on your part. we’ve scoured the internet, done the research, and read the reviews to select the eight best vacuums for tackling pet hair cleanup. whether you’re looking for an upright bagless model, a cordless option, or even a robot vac for everyday maintenance, we’ve just the right pick to help keep you and fido living together in hair-free harmony. best overall image: amazon the good specifically engineered to pick up pet hair • incredibly strong suction for a thorough clean • bar-free brush means pet hair won’t get wrapped and tangl the bad heavy • suction can be too strong on some surfaces, especially area rugs • not great with large debris the bottom line specifically designed for tackling pet hair at a price that won’t break the bank, dyson’s ball animal 2 canister vacuum is an outstanding choice for pet owners. 1. dyson ball animal 2 specifically designed for tackling pet hair at a price that won’t break the bank, dyson’s ball animal 2 canister vacuum is an outstanding choice for pet owners. type: upright bin type: bagless bin volume: 0.5 gallons weight: 17.5 pounds tools included: three (combination tool, stair tool, tangle-free turbine tool) $499.99 from amazon featuring the strongest suction of any competitor and engineered specifically for pet owners, the dyson ball animal 2 doesn’t mess around when it comes to effective, efficient cleaning of pet hair. packed with features and at a price point that won’t break the bank, this canister vac snags our top spot for the best vacuum cleaner for pet hair. the ball animal 2 has a lot of suction power. it’s specifically designed to tackle the level of dust, dirt, and debris that pets can leave behind in your home, and it does a great job of it. featuring a self-adjusting cleaning head, the base plate automatically raises and lowers to lock in suction across multiple floor surfaces like wood, carpet, tile, and vinyl. it also comes with a counter-rotating brush tool that’s specially designed for animal hair; with no brush bar for the hair to wrap around, it’s totally tangle-free, meaning you won’t have to stop every five minutes to bend down and yank dog hair from the bottom. (it’s the little things, really.) although this canister vac is heavy, it’s easy to turn and maneuver thanks to dyson’s ball technology. it also features a washable, reusable filter, easy bin emptying, and an extra-long hose that quickly pulls out from the vacuum’s side to clean blinds, ceilings, and other hard-to-reach spots. with over 350 positive reviews on dyson’s website and over 700 on amazon, the ball animal 2 is a definite crowd-pleaser. amazon customer jennifer olney writes: “wow! i knew this vacuum was rated among the very best, but i am in shock and just how incredible it is. we have a sweet siberian husky baby that we love more than anything...but omg the fur. pregnant with our first human baby, i couldn't handle the thought of baby rolling on the floor and getting covered in fur, despite my best efforts to keep the carpet vacuumed. this arrived today and my husband had it put together in about 5 minutes after unboxing everything. i vacuum nearly every day...and yet this thing pulled up pine needles that must have been buried deep in the fibers of our carpet since christmas. i can't say enough good things about this machine. easy to use, incredibly powerful and worth every penny!” best for your budget image: amazon the good affordable • detachable canister for portable cleaning • dedicated pet hair attachment the bad smaller brush width • top heavy the bottom line an extremely affordable option that still gets the job done when it comes to picking up pet hair—and more. 2. shark navigator lift-away professional upright nv356e an extremely affordable option that still gets the job done when it comes to picking up pet hair—and more. type: upright bin type: bagless bin volume: 1.28 gallons weight: 14.0 pounds tools included: four (hard floor hero attachment, pet power brush, dusting brush and 8” crevice tool) $249.99 from amazon if you’re looking to spend considerably less but still get a vacuum that’s tough on pet hair (and just about anything else), the shark navigator lift-away professional upright is the way to go. the most unique feature of this bagless, upright vac is the lift-away canister. simply push a button and the main canister lifts away from the main body of the vacuum, turning it into a portable cleaning powerhouse that’s perfect for going after pet hair—and just about anything else—on stairs, upholstery, and other hard-to-reach spots. the navigator boasts a sealed system and a hepa filter to trap the dust and allergens left behind by pets. the roller brush turns on and off with the push of a button, so it seamlessly transitions between carpet and bare floor. and although it’s low in price, it doesn’t skimp on accessories. the navigator comes with a dedicated pet hair attachment, as well a microfiber hardwood attachment that wipes away dust as it’s vacuuming. amazon customer tjsgracie writes: “this is the best vacuum i've ever owned. i use it on tile, laminate, and my large area rugs, as well as using the detachable wand on my cloth covered chairs. i have 2 dogs and occasionally have 2 cats that visit and every time i vacuum i have a canister full of hair! it's very powerful, so if you are using on a long shag type carpet you may need to turn the beater bars off as it may shut the beaters off automatically. i have truthfully never had a vacuum that has this amount if suction. the canister is easy to detach and clean. the cord is nice and long so you don't have to keep plugging it in every 2 minutes! i would, and have recommended this to my friends.” best for a serious clean image: amazon the good handles pet hair—and anything else—with ease • quiet, self-adjusting motor for all floor types the bad hefty price tag • need to purchase bag replacements the bottom line if you’re looking to invest in a well-made, high-end vacuum that handles pet hair and just about anything else, this miele is worth the price tag. 3. miele complete c3 marin type: canister bin type: bag bin volume: 1.2 gallons weight: 19.4 pounds tools included: five, including two cleaning heads (electro premium powerbrush and parquet twister) and three tools (dusting brush, upholstery tool and crevice nozzle) $1,099 from amazon miele is to the world of vacuums what mercedes-benz is to cars—a well-made, uber-luxurious german brand that’s been trusted for decades for its superior products and high quality performance. if you’re someone who’s got a whole lot of cleaning to do and is looking to invest in a versatile, powerful, and dare we say “stylish” vacuum for the long haul, the miele complete c3 marin is for you. short of actually vacuuming for you, there’s not much this canister vac can’t do. the marin features a powerful yet quiet six-speed motor, controlled via +/- buttons on the footswitch, that works on hardwoods and carpeting and anything in between. and if figuring out motor settings isn’t for you, not to worry—there’s also a self-adjusting automatic setting that senses the floor type and adjusts the motor accordingly, meaning you’ll never have to risk a foot cramp while cleaning. the marin tackles pet hair with ease. it comes with two cleaning heads, an electrobrush for carpeting (with led lighting, so you can see all your grossness!), and a parquet twister head with super soft bristles that will take it easy on your hardwood floors while you’re chasing after those stray balls of cat fur. there’s also a self-retracting power cord, a hepa filter, and of course the satisfaction of knowing you’re driving the mercedes of vacuums. amazon customer r. julka says: “with 4 kids, a dog, and a lot of hardwood floors, this vacuum is amazing. i love that i don't have to adjust the suction when i'm vacuuming hardwood floors and throw rugs. also, the led lights are very helpful for highlighting all the dog hairs and dust in the corners. i also like the portability of the machine-- the canister is not too heavy to move around. last, the maneuverability of the machine is also great.” and amazon customer lk says: “such a great vacuum.... it is so worth the price. a family member has a similar miele that has been bombproof with very few repair or maintenance issues for probably 12-15 years... now that's the kind of product that is worth a significant cash outlay. really love this as much as you can love a vacuum.” best for everyday use image: amazon the good you sit, it vacuums. magic! • 100 minutes of run time • slim design fits under most furniture the bad some users complain it has trouble finding its home base • can get tangled in carpet fringe, loose wires etc. the bottom line this robotic vacuum is the perfect solution for pet owners looking for daily pet hair maintenance with zero effort. 4. eufy robovac 11s this robotic vacuum is the perfect solution for pet owners looking for daily pet hair maintenance with zero effort. type: robot bin type: bagless bin volume: 0.16 gallons weight: 5.7 pounds tools included: none $224 from amazon put your hands together, folks—the future vacuuming is here, and it means you’ll never have to get off your ass again. cue the applause. robot vacuums are an ideal option for pet owners who are looking to keep up on the daily chore of pet hair maintenance without a ton of effort. although there are certainly fancier and more expensive options on the market, we think the eufy robovac 11s is an affordable, efficient robotic option that really gets the job done. the eufy has everything you’d want—or need—in a robotic vacuum. it’s the brand’s slimmest option, yet still packs a big punch in the suction department. it clocks in with a run time of 100 minutes, so it’s able to vacuum an entire floor without needing to go back to its home base for a recharge. it’s equipped with sensors that detect when extra suction power is needed and boost the vac for 1.5 seconds, meaning it will do a great job on any locations with pet hair buildup. and it does well handling ledges and sensing stair drop-offs. hundreds of amazon reviewers are pleasantly surprised by how well this affordable vacuum handles and are raving about eufy’s customer service. carlos fernandez writes: “bought this two days ago. it's been a cycle of charging, cleaning, charging, etc since it arrived. every time it's been a full deposit of dog fur and dust. i can't believe how much dirt a carpet can hide.two years ago we bought a roomba but returned it because it couldn't deal with our carpet. it was stuck all the time, lots of noise, took forever to clean a room.we're amazed at how well this one is working. it's really silent, too. irobot better watch out.” and amazon customer nick carraway says: “this thing has changed my life. i know that sounds weird but honestly of all my amazon purchases, and there have been a lot, this is one of the very best. every day when i get home from work i open it up and it's loaded. 1200 sq ft half tile floor half new carpet. still loaded.” best for stubborn pet hair image: amazon the good tangle-free brush • wallet-friendly price point • great attachments the bad top heavy • some customers don’t like the scented filter the bottom line the well-designed, effective tool attachments and affordable price point make this upright vac a solid choice for pet owners. 5. bissell 1650a pet hair eraser vacuum type: upright bin type: bagless bin volume: 0.4 gallons weight: 18 pounds tools included: three (combination brushing/dust upholstery tool, led lighted crevice tool and pet turboeraser tool) $249 from chewy tangle-free design and a practical assortment of effective attachments are at the forefront of the design of the bissell 1650a pet hair eraser vacuum, a budget-friendly choice for pet owners who are looking for a deep clean of stubborn pet hair across their home. this upright vac features a wide, tangle-free main brush roller that’s perfect for tackling pet hair without having to worry about it building up and clogging the brush. it’s a sealed system so it effectively traps the dust and allergens pets leave behind, and it features hands-free bin emptying for easy cleanup and a febreze filter to help eliminate pet odors as you vacuum. the bissell’s attachments are what really make this pet-friendly vacuum stand out, though. the vac comes with three specialized pet tools that easily attached to a quick-release wand. (users rave about the wand’s comfy, ergonomically designed rubber handle.) tools include an upholstery tool perfect for couches, chairs and pillows, a turbo attachment specially designed for built-up hair and, our favorite, an led-lit crevice tool so you can see just how much pet hair you furry friend left behind before you suck it away forever. an amazon customer writes: “i have 2 siberian huskies and thought it would be impossible to get all the hair... my old vacuum couldn't pick it up at all. i use to have to get down on my hands and knees with a small bristle dog brush and scrape the carpet to get it off the carpet. i haven't picked up the hair in 3 weeks.. i gave this new vacuum the ultimate test... and it passed with flying colors. it got all the hair. i could ask for a better vacuum.” best for managing allergies image: amazon the good sealed, bagged system to trap dander and expel clean air • seamlessly transitions across all floor surfaces the bad heavy • some users say the attachments don’t stay in place well the bottom line if you’re a pet owner and an allergy sufferer, this crossover vacuum is a great pick for cleaning both your home and the air. 6. kenmore elite 21814 pet & allergy friendly crossover canister vacuum type: canister bin type: bagged bin volume: not available weight: 22.9 pounds tools included: five (motorized pet powermate, horsehair dusting brush, horsehair floor brush, crevice tool, fan tool) $593.99 from amazon if man’s best friend is also causing you man’s worst allergies, you’re going to need a vacuum that does a first-rate job of trapping dander and expelling clean, filtered air—and the kenmore elite 21814 crossover does just that. allergy experts will tell you that bagged, sealed system vacs are the best option for anyone with a sensitivity to pet hair, and they’re right. bagged vacuums do a better job of trapping dust, debris and hair than their bagless counterparts, and although buying replacement bags can be a bit of a pain, you’re seriously limiting the amount of pet dander and other allergens that will escape back into the air every time you empty your vac. the elite crossover features a hepa certified air filter that removes virtually all allergens from the air. it also does a great job of transitioning over lots of different flooring surfaces; simply pop out the crossover handle on the main brush roller, and seamlessly go from cleaning your carpet to cleaning your hardwood floors without ever having to bend down. an amazon customer writes: “i could not be more pleased with this vacuum. i have pets so shedding is a problem. this vacuum has great suction (has suction levels) and did the job. i found it easy to use and i like the different attachments that are easily tucked away. my rainbow vac is currently in the shop and i needed something else in the meantime. i did not make a mistake choosing this model. there is nothing i dislike about it.” best for cord-free cleaning image: amazon the good cordless • lightweight • strong motor that’s tough on pet hair the bad low battery life on max suction setting • no hardwood floor attachment the bottom line you can’t beat the portability and maneuverability of this vacuum. for cordless cleaning on the go, the dyson v8 animal is your best bet. 7. dyson v8 animal cordless stick vacuum type: cordless bin type: bagless bin volume: 0.14 gallons weight: 5.9 pounds tools included: three (combination tool, mini motorhead and crevice tool) $386 from walmart dyson pretty much corners the market when it comes to cordless stick vacuums, and for good reason. their cordless vacs are powerful, effective, and insanely easy to maneuver. there’s just something about a lightweight vac that isn’t bogged down with a cord that actually makes vacuuming fun and easy—and the dyson v8 animal cordless stick vacuum should be your pick. if you’re worried about a cordless vac not having enough power to tackle tough pet hair, don’t be. the v8 animal boasts a powerful motor and is a beast when it comes to sucking up stubborn hair from your furry friend. (see what we did there?) in runs for up to 40 minutes (depending on what tool you’re using) and has a whole-machine hepa filtration system to trap allergens and expel clean air. it also comes with all the attachments you need for digging ground-in dirt and pet hair out of virtually any surface. and you simply cannot beat the portability. weighing in at just under six pounds, it’s ridiculously easy to pop off of the docking station and get down to business. it even transforms into a handheld vac for when you need to spot clean. amazon customer tracy l. stauffer says: “we have owned [this vacuum claner] ] for a week and both my husband and myself are less congested in the morning. we have 2 cats and i wanted this dyson specifically to get under our beds and other furniture. it amazes me how much it continues to pick up. plus it is light and easy to take off the wall to do some quick clean up. it is so easy to dump directly into the garbage so no extra bags needed. why did we wait so long to buy a decent vacuum? worth every penny.” best handheld image: amazon the good extremely affordable • perfect for couches, pillows, stairs and anywhere else pet hair accumulates the bad corded • a bit bulky the bottom line a convenient choice for when you need a quick spot clean but feel like lugging out your larger vacuum. 8. bissell pet hair eraser hand vac type: handheld (corded) bin type: bagless bin volume: 0.2 gallons weight: 5.0 pounds tools included: two (flexible contour nozzle and hard nozzle) $45 from chewy the bissell pet hair eraser hand vac rounds out our list of best pet hair vacuums and takes our top spot for the best handheld option. if you’re tired of getting up from your couch with your jeans covered in pet hair, this handheld vac is for you. although it’s a corded vac, which isn’t ideal, it’s still super convenient, effective, and extremely well-priced, making it a great option for spot cleaning areas of your home prone to hair buildup. the pet eraser hand vac comes with two nozzles—a soft, contoured option for cleaning dirt and hair, and a harder plastic nozzle perfect for picking up tougher messes like pet food, cat litter and more. it’s lightweight, easy to use and, despite its small size, still features a multi-layer filtration system that helps to reduce allergens. and it’s comfortable to hold, too. there’s a wide easy-grip handle and a cord-wrap system for easy transport. amazon customers love raving over this well-priced little vac. rubybythesea writes: “i have 2 golden retrievers - need i say more? i bought this to use at a beach house that has many levels and many many stairs. it worked perfectly and removed the long dog hair from stairs and furniture and is a whole lot easier to use then hauling around a large vacuum on the multiple staircases. it has a very strong motor and a long cord. i love it so much, i just bought a second on for my home. great product- much better and stronger than the other hand-held vacuums that i have used over the years.” topics: cats, dogs, home, mashable deals, pets, tech, vacuum related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound heads up: all products featured here are selected by mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. if you buy something, mashable may earn an affiliate commission. related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.