skip to content college info geek best articles menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search best articles search for: how to study for any test or exam (even if you feel unmotivated) the ultimate guide to building a personal website what to bring to college: the ultimate college packing list how to improve your memory: a comprehensive, science-backed guide stop being broke: 100+ ways to make money in college – winter 2020 how to take better notes: the 6 best note-taking systems 50 of the best personal website and portfolio examples in 2020 listen and learn: the 40 best educational podcasts in 2020 how to study with intense focus: 6 essential tips applying for a job? this is exactly how to write a winning resume the ultimate list of student discounts and deals – winter 2020 essential books for students how to budget and save money as a college student watch and learn: the 100+ best educational youtube channels in 2020 how to create a great study space (with examples) how to use the feynman technique to learn faster (with examples) 8 better ways to make and study flash cards how to remember more of what you learn with spaced repetition how to easily stay organized and productive in college 7 ways to improve your critical thinking skills the ultimate guide to linkedin for students brain fog: why you have it (plus 5 ways to fix it) how to make an extra $1,000 a month (25 ways that actually work) the 9 best calendar apps to stay organized in 2020 more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.