bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates cad usd eur gbp aud inr chat call login wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates chat call call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 login cad usd eur gbp aud inr × free domain policy if you register a domain with bluehost when signing up for a hosting account, there is a domain fee that is non-refundable. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. regardless of the status of your hosting service, you'll be free to manage it, transfer it after any required lock periods, or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you elect to extend it. the best web hosting free domain name for 1st year free ssl certificate included 1-click wordpress install 24/7 support starting at ca$10.72 ca$5.30/month* get started * special intro offer and 30-day money-back guarantee powering over 2 million websites worldwide wordpress made easy one of the top recommended wordpress providers by wordpress.org. enjoy hassle-free wordpress installation on all accounts. 24/7 support trained experts are here to help 24/7. our robust help center includes guides, video tutorials and more. money-back guarantee try us and love us, or get a refund within 30 days of signing up. your satisfaction is our top priority. built for success get access to marketing services, tools, and paid ad credits to boost your website's global reach. see hosting plans introducing wp pro supercharge your wordpress hosting with detailed website analytics, marketing tools, security, and data backups all in one place. learn about it 24/7 expert support our expert team is always on hand to help answer your questions, get you started, and grow your presence online. you can call, chat or email us any time! 888-401-4678 chat blue flash together, let's build you a better website. our experts are just part of the reason bluehost is the ideal home for your wordpress website. we're here to help you succeed! learn more call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 complete hosting solutions starting at ca$5.30/month* get started * the promotional price is for the first term only and renews at the regular rate. * 30-day money-back guarantee does not extend to domain names. products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 × 30-day hosting money-back guarantee the promotional price is for the first term only and plans renew at the regular rate. your satisfaction is our top priority and we're confident you'll be pleased with our services. still, if you try us and decide your account does not sufficiently meet your needs, you can cancel within 30 days for a refund as follows. if you cancel within 30 days you receive a full refund on your hosting service only. the money-back guarantee does not apply to most add-on products, such as domains, given the unique nature of their costs. if you cancel within 30 days and your plan includes a free domain, bluehost will deduct a non-refundable domain fee of $15.99 from your refund. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. you may transfer it to another registrar or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. please note newly registered domains cannot be transferred to another registrar during the first 60 days of the registration period. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you renew it. bluehost does not offer any refunds for cancellations that occur after 30 days. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.