skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: home / insurance / home / the best home insurance companies of 2020 the best home insurance companies of 2020 by kevin oliver on march 23, 2020 in home / insurance you never know when disaster will strike, so everyone needs to safeguard their home. damage and loss from natural disasters or theft can cost thousands of dollars, but homeowners insurance can help pay for anything that happens. to make sure you’re covered, it’s important to find the right provider for your needs. we’ve gathered information to find the best home insurance companies and the most important things to consider when searching for a provider and policy. collect this idea roman samborskyi/shutterstock our picks for best homeowners insurance companies american family: best renters insurance company amica mutual: best national home insurance company erie insurance & farm bureau: best regional home insurance companies travelers: best cheap home insurance company usaa: best home insurance company for military members state farm: best flood insurance company and best company for old homes home insuarance reviews after compiling research from dozens of reviews and independent-rating agencies and interviewing an agent with more than 15 years of experience, we found that there’s no one-size-fits-all option. the one national company that separates itself from the other big dogs in the pack is amica mutual, which ranks highest in the homeowners insurance segment for an 18th consecutive year by j.d. power & associates. with something as individualized and geographical as home insurance, selecting a sole winner seemed impractical, so we decided to mention some of our favorite regional picks. we found that erie insurance, state farm, auto owners and allstate all ranked high. we also found that individual farm bureaus were often preferable to a large company because of their region-specific knowledge. while we felt it was unfair to call any major company the best overall in this field, we did find that certain ones stood out in a number of subcategories. here are a few of our suggestions. american family – best renters insurance while the protection of your dwelling will fall on your landlord, renters insurance will protect your personal property within the building that you rent. also known as an ho-4 renter’s insurance policy, american family’s renters insurance boasts coverage of reimbursed living expenses, liability protection and guest medical protection. the average cost of american family renters insurance is $15 per month. you might be eligible for a discount if you bundle your auto insurance with allstate. other discounts include: new or renovated home auto pay paperless statement loyalty generational, if your parents are insured by american family too. american mutual – best national homeowners insurance a good home insurance company should provide the same safety, security, shelter and peace of mind that your home does. amica mutual is considered to be one of the pre-eminent insurers in the united states. holding an impressively high customer service and financial rating and being j.d. power’s overall top pick for 2019 (for the 18th consecutive year), amica is one of the finest insurance companies in the nation. boasting a claims service that pays out within 24 hours of an accident and a home-repair assistance program that connects you to more than 4,500 contractors to ensure a speedy cleanup, amica is well equipped to come to your aid. it may not be among the nation’s largest insurers, but this company is strong in terms of customer satisfaction ratings. our quote for the cost of an amica homeowners insurance policy for a $250,000 illinois two-story townhouse was $117 per month. if you want insurance policies with built-in perks that you can bundle together for a discount, give amica a look. the company offers basic home insurance coverage, as well as some unconventional upgrades, like: catastrophic coverage pays for property damage from floods or earthquakes, both of which are not typically included in standard policies. home business coverage pays for work-related items if they’re stolen dwelling replacement coverage pays out if your home needs repairs exceeding the policy limit, typically up to 30%. amica’s platinum choice policy includes the coverages above (except catastrophic), plus up to 30% more coverage with: business property coverage computer coverage, including tvs, tablets and phones credit card fraud or unauthorized coverage worth up to $5,000 liability and medical payments loss assessment coverage covering community property near your home replacement cost reimbursement rather than depreciated value of damaged or stolen items theft of valuables water backup/sump overflow coverage in case of damage up to $5,000 amica also has a repair assistance program. it partners with contractor connection, a national network of 4,500 licensed and insured contractors with a home repair assistance program with “professionals [who] can be on the scene within hours of an emergency.” unique amica discounts for your policy include: e-discount if you receive bills and information electronically loyalty if you’ve been with the company for more than two years amica is lacking in a few key coverage areas that would limit its overall reach. you won’t find mobile home, farm or ranch coverage at amica, and those who reside in older homes can’t get specialized coverage through this provider. there is also a dearth of payment-plan flexibility, as you are required to make either one full payment or 10 monthly payments. amica had fewer than the median number of complaints to state regulators in 2018 relative to its size for home, according to the latest data from the national association of insurance commissioners. amica also stands out for customer satisfaction, earning the highest honors in two j.d. power studies and consumer reports and consumer affairs surveys. erie insurance & farm bureau – best regional homeowners insurance if you own oceanfront property, reside in tornado alley or have a home that’s on a known fault line, it’s possible that a provider like state farm won’t offer the level of coverage you need to protect your home. in cases like these, regional insurers may offer a more complete portfolio of add-ons to address region-specific concerns. our top picks are outlined below, but we encourage you to do a bit of research in your local market with an agent to determine which company is best suited for you. erie insurance erie insurance is cut from the same cloth as amica mutual. this company is held in high esteem and prides itself in bringing more personalized policies to its clients by staying focused on the 12 states it serves from the midwest to the atlantic ocean (including the district of columbia). boasting a four-star j.d. power ranking and consistently impressive customer-experience ratings, erie offers some of the most all-encompassing coverage in the field for the greatest value. for homeowners insurance on a $250,000 illinois two-story townhouse, we received a quote of about $116 per month. comprehensive discounts are what give erie the financial edge over larger companies. it offers a wide variety of discounts, including: new home multi-policy home alert roofing although erie is available only to a small portion of americans and doesn’t offer much in the way of learning material or mobile accessibility, it is an excellent option to check into if you live in their coverage area. farm bureau another great option is your state’s farm bureau insurance. some states offer this independently and some offer it through an existing agency. we found its service and loyalty to customers to be exemplary. not only are state bureaus more focused on their clients, but they also hold unparalleled knowledge of area-specific pitfalls and advice. we highly recommend checking with your state’s farm bureau to see if you are eligible for insurance. while rates vary depending on your state’s farm bureau branch, there are several discounts available, including: multi-policy single deductible for all insurance policies new roof new home protective device loyalty state farm – best flood insurance and best homeoweners insurance old home flood insurance is almost always sold separately from the main policy. if you live in a high-risk area, this is one of the most important purchases you can make. like most insurers, state farm writes its flood insurance through the national flood insurance program (nfip). the company is lauded for its customer service, speedy payouts and top-rated agents. it’s smart to consult a local, preferably independent, agent who can help determine the level of flood protection you need where you live. insuring an old home is trickier than any other home. many companies won’t even take them on because of the potential liability. state farm, however, shines with affordable rates, thousands of helpful agents and a great ho-8 policy, which is designed for situations when the replacement cost of a home may be substantially higher than the current market value. there is no better place to insure your rustic abode than state farm. discounts are limited. they include: home safety multi-policy roofing travelers – cheapest homeowners insurance there’s no such thing as cheap home insurance, but everyone loves a discount, and even a ballooning premium can be offset with smart discount shopping. travelers homeowners insurance is a great hub for diversified discount options, including: multi-policy new homebuyer protective device claims-free leed (leadership in energy and environmental design) with some careful planning, travelers’ discounts can be a great option to save some big bucks. usaa – best homeowners insurance military members the undisputed champ of customer service, this powerhouse has been serving military members for more than 90 years. although usaa is available only to past and present service members, it is often considered to be the paramount insurance company for both home and auto. usaa often has the lowest rates available. discounts include: claims-free home safety multi-policy offering an unprecedented level of personal-property coverage paired with unmatched customer loyalty, usaa is the clear choice for all who are eligible. what makes a good homeowners insurance company there is no way to define a single “best” home insurance provider. the beauty of owning your home is that it’s an extension of yourself, making it just as individual as you are. one company that works perfectly for one house might not be a good fit for yours. this is why finding a trusted local agent is worth more than any research you can do on your own. these are the features we devoted our attention to when determining recommendations for the best home insurance companies. financial standing is a company’s ability to pay back claims, in full, quickly. we examine ratings by leading financial agencies, am best, moody’s, and standard & poor’s to determine a company’s financial strength. customer satisfaction means treating customers like real people, not numbers. ratings from j.d. power and consumer reports help to shape our customer satisfaction ratings. local agents matter because having someone to call goes a long way when your home is damaged. we consider a company’s local and branch availability. user and market-research reviews are compiled for the latest data on home insurance. we only work with the leading public and private agencies. available discounts are important much like auto insurance because they can save homeowners a ton of cash. we examine all of the discounts that can greatly impact the total bottom line of your insurance policy. history of claims handling is important because you want a company with experience. claims handling is an important part of the ratings we collect from companies like j.d. power and the better business bureau (bbb). online capabilities keep you plugged in on the go in a world where efficiency is key. we consider how this impacts claims handling and customer support. frequently asked questions what is home insurance? homeowners insurance is a form of property insurance that financially protects owners of private homes, buildings and contents against damage from unforeseen circumstances. is home insurance requiered? legally, homeowners do not need to obtain a home insurance policy for their property or building. with that said, lenders tend to require borrowers to obtain a home insurance policy throughout their mortgage. if the home is located in an area vulnerable to floods or earthquakes, lenders may also require borrowers to purchase additional insurance as well. how much does home insurance cost per month? the cost of home insurance is different for every homeowner. insurance companies use information like your zip code, credit history, property type and household size to determine the amount of risk for insuring your home. based on that analysis, they calculate your total annual premium. collect this idea getty images our methodology: how we chose the best homeowners insurance we looked at dozens of home insurance reviews and ratings from around the web for more than 45 hours to determine where customers were consistently satisfied. we compared quotes and reviews from 10 of the top-rated national companies, as well as 15 of the highest-ranked regional companies, and referred to j.d. power to single out the ones that are the best to deal with. we also chatted with an insurance agent of over 15 years to get a firsthand look into the expectations of consumers. deciding who will pay the bills in the event of a catastrophe is no small task. everyone wants to work with a company that they can trust to have their back when they call. we decided to put most of the weight on customer-service ratings. any company can trumpet cheap prices and discounts, but whether or not they’ll be willing to uphold their end of the deal when push comes to shove is what really counts. we hope you like the products we recommend. just so you are aware, freshome may collect a share of sales from the links on this page. important home insurance facts before we get into our top picks for best homeowners insurance companies, we thought we’d lay some foundation about the function and importance of insuring your house, condo or apartment from outside risks, such as fires or natural disasters. what is home insurance? homeowners insurance is a form of property insurance that financially protects owners of private homes, buildings, and contents, against damage from unforeseen circumstances. property insurance can protect owners from two classifications of risks: open perils and named perils. open perils protect owners from any harm that is not specifically mentioned as an exclusion in the property insurance policy. common exclusions include floods, earthquakes or acts of war. on the other hand, named perils specifically name the cause of loss they are protecting against in the policy. fire insurance or flood insurance are both examples of property insurance with named perils. is home insurance required? legally, homeowners do not need to obtain a home insurance policy for their property or building. with that said, lenders tend to require borrowers to obtain a home insurance policy throughout their mortgage. if the home is located in an area vulnerable to floods or earthquakes, lenders may also require borrowers to purchase additional insurance as well. choosing the right type of home insurance for you for the most part, we found that local and regional agencies are the best option for most homeowners. we recommend finding a local agent and letting him or her help guide you through the twists and turns of your individual policy. g.k. pippin, a longtime agent of a regional insurance company, agreed that local is better: i would recommend that any new customer connect with a local agent before buying. local agents are better equipped to handle your policy with their insightful knowledge of the potential risks in the area.— g.k. pippin being mostly geographically determinate, regional companies tend to be preferable when it comes to home insurance. while the major national companies archetypally deliver excellent coverage, the significance of a personal connection to your area can’t be overstated. regional companies are best equipped to understand the nuances of weather, crime rates, reconstruction costs, fire and police protection, etc. all of these factors play a major role in determining one’s premium and coverage level. for example, in coastal north carolina, local insurers offer far more wind and hail coverage options than a national carrier, which could come in handy if a hurricane rolls through. we asked pippin to walk us through some of the policy tips he has given his clients. “i always recommend water- and sewage-damage coverage. most policies don’t include [these], and [they are] usually skipped over. it’s an inexpensive add-on and the damage, especially on a wooden floor, can be financially [disastrous].” — g.k. pippin understanding home insurance coverage understanding the types of coverage that exist is the first step in choosing your policy. while there are dozens of optional coverage add-ons, let’s go over the basics to help simplify things. dwelling coverage this safeguards you from financial harm if your home or attached buildings are damaged by disasters such as a windstorm, lightning or vehicles. you can purchase as much as you want, but it is recommended that you buy enough to rebuild your home in the event of an accident. other structures protection this protects structures that are disconnected from your house, such as a barn or a carport. it typically starts at around 10 percent of your dwelling coverage, but you can adjust it as you see fit. additional living expense coverage finding a place to live while your home is being repaired can be a headache. this coverage helps you pay for the cost of relocating during this period. most states allow coverage up to 12 months, but some allow it for 24 months. water-backup coverage different than flood insurance, this covers damages from water that flows from the ground up . this is a coverage that some skip on, but could be a huge money saver. personal-property insurance most base-level insurance policies only cover damages done to the structure of your dwelling. personal-property insurance protects your belongings in your home. it is imperative that you get the right amount of coverage for this, and specify how much coverage you want to go toward certain items. take the time to detail everything you would want replaced and adjust your policy to match that figure. family liability protection helps to cover the liability if disregard and negligence lead to the damage of others’ property. this also can assist in paying for any required legal defense. guest medical protection this helps pay for the medical expenses of anyone injured on your property. it typically covers up to $5,000. fire department charges coverage covers the costs that a fire department would charge to put out a fire at your home. picking an insurance policy picking the right policy to protect your home is no menial chore. home insurance is arguably the most complex to shop for. while we all have the diy spirit deep inside of us, it’s recommended that you seek the counsel of an agent to help guide you through the pool of policy and coverage options. an agent will not only help you find the best policy for you, but also will ensure that you don’t pay extra for unneeded coverage. a continued dialogue with your agent can help eradicate any misunderstandings when it comes time to choose a policy. even after you pick your policy, it’s imperative that you continue to communicate with your insurer to verify that no changes have been made to your policy, unbeknownst to you. pippin agreed that most of the customer complaints he has heard stem from a lack of communication between parties. “the biggest issue i see is clients not staying in contact with their agent. you should check with your company annually to verify that no changes have been made to your policy.” — g.k. pippin if you are an exceptionally cautious person or have a lot of personal items you would like to protect, be prepared to pay a heftier premium every month. with all insurance, you get the level of protection that you pay for. the significance of thoroughly going through your policy options with your agent can’t be overstated. another nugget to keep in your mind is that several factors can affect the cost of your policy. here are some to consider: catastrophic coverage pays for property damage from floods or earthquakes, both of which are not typically included in standard policies. home business coverage pays for work-related items if they’re stolen dwelling replacement is coverage that pays out if your home needs repairs exceeding the policy limit, typically up to 30%. amica’s platinum choice policy includes the coverages above (except catastrophic), plus: owning certain items that have higher potential for risk, such as a swimming pool or trampoline, can drive your premiums up quickly. owning an aggressive breed of dog can escalate pricing. your home’s distance from a fire station or hospital plays greatly into how much you’ll pay. if you live too far away from either, some insurers won’t even write a policy for you. anything than can be perceived as a danger by your insurance company will be. thankfully, there are discounts you can acquire to counteract this, such as installing a security system. the more risk you can eliminate, the more likely you are to save money on your policy. loss assessment coverage covering community property near your home. common policy options as complicated and overwhelming as the nuts and bolts of home insurance can be, there is a silver lining: due to regulations from the insurance services office, all insurers must provide the same types of coverage and call them by the same name. this will wholly expedite comparing policies amongst multiple competitors. to make it even simpler for you, i have put together a list of common home insurance policy options that most companies will carry. ho-0: dwelling & fire the base level of insurance policies, ho-0 is limited protection that covers damage caused by fire, smoke, explosions, lightning, windstorms, hail, civil unrest and vehicles. it should be noted that there is nothing but dwelling coverage in this policy; personal property and liability are unprotected. ho-1: basic form not available in every state, the ho-1 home insurance policy protects your abode against 11 perils: theft, vandalism, hail, lightning, windstorm, fire, aircraft damage, vehicle damage, volcanic eruption, civil commotion and glass breakage. this covers your dwelling, and you can add coverage of your personal items as well. ho-2: broad form this is a comprehensive form of “named perils” coverage. any peril that is unnamed will not be covered. all in all, this policy covers your home from the 11 perils in an ho-1 policy, plus falling objects, weight of snow and rain, and malfunctioning electrical or household equipment. ho-3: special form this extensive policy is best for single-family homes and uses a different formula than the previous policies to determine the perils it covers. ho-3 home insurance covers all perils except for those that are specifically excluded. ho-4: tenant’s form colloquially known as renters insurance, this form protects people who are renting their residence. while the responsibility of dwelling coverage will fall on your landlord, an ho-4 will provide personal property and liability coverage. ho-5: premium the most extensive policy available, this is essentially an extended ho-3 policy. it takes the open-peril basis of an ho-3 and applies it to your personal property as well as your dwelling. barring its exclusion, any damage caused by a peril to your structure or personal contents will be covered. ho-6: condominium insurance much like an ho-4, this protects the personal property and personal liability of someone living in a condo. the perils covered are the same as an ho-2. ho-7: mobile-home insurance this policy is the same as an ho-3 but with protection for mobile and manufactured homes. ho-8: older-home insurance insuring an older home is a greater risk because the cost of repair would be more than the market value of the home. therefore, not every company provides this type of policy. an ho8 is similar to an ho3, with additional provisions relevant to older homes. final thoughts choosing the right home insurance is similar to choosing a home. in both instances, you are aiming to invest in stability. the right home insurance company should be as trustworthy and unshakeable as the very foundation your home rests on. even though you hope to never use your policy, it’s worth choosing an insurer based on how they’d react if you needed to. home insurance is among the most complicated and individualized forms of insurance you’ll have to buy. realizing that there will never be a one-size-fits-all solution to home insurance, it’s impossible to make a uniform recommendation. in our research, we found amica mutual to be the best bet, but your location may yield an entirely different result. with the help of a personal agent to help sift through the jargon, you can find a company that you feel comfortable entrusting your safe haven to. sources: https://www.consumeraffairs.com/insurance/home.html#best-rated-all https://www.jdpower.com/business/ratings/study/u.s.-home-insurance-study—homeowners-insurance/10183eng https://www.amica.com/en/products/home-insurance.html interview, g.k. pippin, insurance agent “https://www.reviews.com/homeowners-insurance/amica/” “12 factors that affect your home insurance rates,” christianpf, june 2010 “do you need landslide insurance?” insurance quotes, august 2013 “what does homeowners insurance cover,” esurance “ho4 renter insurance policy,” insurance education group “ho 8 home policy,” american insurance services also read home insurance these are the 4 foolproof signs you're ready to stop renting and become a homeowner home insurance are you actually ready to buy a house? ask yourself these 3 questions first popular stuff give your brick fireplace a facelift - reader story don't stockpile: what to buy for home quarantine during coronavirus bedroom windows buying guide heat pump troubleshooting and repair bedroom windows buying guide popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss