we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk techappsvpn like follow best cheap vpns: how to stay anonymous online for less than $4 if you want to make sure your online activities are undetectable and untraceable, you need a vpn — and these six providers offer plans that are cheaper than your daily latte. share tweet share share best overall choice surfshark this up-and-comer outshines its more established (and expensive) peers in terms of both value and functionality. see details best for netflix cyberghost vpn this widespread vpn offers dedicated streaming servers and friendly support resources that won't intimidate vpn newbies. see details best for geographic diversity purevpn a basic but competent vpn with an impressive amount of servers in africa — a rarity among its peers. see details editors independently select all products and services featured here. if you buy something through our links, we may receive a commission. by jennifer allen and haley henschel2019-10-23 00:07:13 utc update: october 22, 2019, 2:55 p.m. edt this story has been updated following news that a nordvpn server was breached. all those hours you've spent searching for the perfect arrested development reaction gif or drooling over mukbangs on youtube seem insignificant in the grand scheme of things — but to google, hackers, your internet service provider (isp), and even certain government agencies, that browsing history is a valuable commodity. and guess what? they're probably tracking and logging every digital move you make. like, right now. such is the importance of a virtual private network, or vpn. we've dedicated tens of thousands of words to waxing poetic about all of the benefits of using a vpn, but for the uninitiated, here's the nitty-gritty: a vpn is a service that makes your web presence more difficult to track and trace. and if someone can't track or trace your web presence, they can't collect your personal data and do icky things with it — like sell it to advertisers or use it to incriminate you in nefarious activities. if you've ever looked into using a vpn before, you've probably noticed that some of them are free, while others require paid subscription plans. that's odd, you might've thought at the time. why would anyone choose to pay for a vpn if free ones exist? it's tempting to give free vpns a shot — hey, free is free is free — but if your budget allows it, you should *always* opt for a paid provider. here's why. why should you pay for a vpn? the short answer is this: there's no such thing as a free lunch. a vpn keeps you anonymous online by masking your ip address and encrypting your traffic through its secure servers, and while it would be nice of providers to give away and maintain this technology for free, they have to make money somehow. (capitalism, amiright?) so, if they're not charging you a monthly or annual fee to use their service, they're likely logging and selling your data in order to pay their bills. some even have the audacity to seed their products with spyware. in the best-case scenario, that data will be used to generate eerily specific ads based on your browsing history. at worst, your privacy will be compromised. on the plus side, we've found that many paid vpn providers are willing to offer their services for cheap (as in, "less than $4 a month" cheap) so long as you commit to a long-term subscription. keep reading to find out which of these providers we like best — and don't forget to click the gray arrow in the upper-right corner of each card to expand our write-ups. best overall choice image: surfshark the good supports an unlimited number of devices • no-logging policy • 30-day money-back guarantee • split tunneling • supports cryptocurrency payments • unblocks netflix • 24/7 customer service via chat and email • all servers can be used for torrenting • unlimited bandwidth the bad relatively small server network • young company that's still getting established the bottom line a budding vpn with a small-but-mighty network of servers. 1. surfshark this up-and-comer outshines its more established (and expensive) peers in terms of both value and functionality. monthly plan: $11.95/month 12-month plan: $5.99/month (billed $71.88 every 12 months) 24-month plan: $1.99/month with coupon code "sharkstart" (billed $47.76 every 24 months) see details cue the jaws theme song: surfshark takes a bite out of expensive vpn services by offering tons of features at a great value, including a kill switch, dns protection, an ad blocker, and aes 256-bit encryption. it's capable of handling even high-bandwidth activities like torrenting, offering a fleet of p2p-friendly servers and split tunneling for fast speeds. moreover, the company is located in the british virgin islands — a country where there are zero data retention laws — so you can rest assured that your data will never fall into the wrong hands. as far as cons go, surfshark has a small server network compared to the other vpns on this list with just over 1,000 of them spread throughout 60 countries. the only other downside we see to surfshark — and admittedly, this one's kind of a reach — is that it's a really, really young company that's still solidifying a reputation among users. (it was founded in 2018.) but based what we've read in preliminary reviews, we think it's more than capable of competing with older vpn services like purevpn and nordvpn, which have been around since 2007 and 2008, respectively. additional features: for just 99 cents a month, you can activate two additional privacy features on top of surfshark's vpn — one that'll alert you if your email address is leaked to the web, and another that lets you conduct internet searches anonymously and without ads. best for netflix image: cyberghost vpn the good supports up to seven simultaneous connections • helpful support site • dedicated servers for torrenting • split tunneling • no-logging policy • money-back guarantee • dedicated streaming servers • unlimited bandwidth and traffic • huge network of servers • apps are very user-friendly the bad customer service can be very slow to respond • only supports one form of cryptocurrency payments (bitcoin) the bottom line the best way to get your "great british baking show" fix abroad. 2. cyberghost vpn this widespread vpn offers dedicated streaming servers and friendly support resources that won't intimidate vpn newbies. monthly plan: $12.95/month one-year plan: $5.95/month (billed $71.40 every year) two-year plan: $3.65/month (billed $87.60 every two years) three-year plan: $2.99/month (billed $107.64 every three years) see details so, here's the thing: it's really hard to find a good vpn for netflix. the streaming service cracks down hard on vpns because they help people access the content that's geo-restricted by its licensing deals (a violation of its terms of service), and typically bans any providers it detects. as a result, vpns that actually work with netflix nowadays are quite rare — cyberghost vpn is one of them. cyberghost's massive global network of more than 6,200 servers includes dedicated streaming servers that have been optimized for speed and stability. (not a netflix person? that's chill — these servers can also help you bypass geo-restrictions on movies and shows on platforms like disney+, amazon prime video, espn, nbc, hulu, and the bbc.) cyberghost users have access to a split tunneling tool that keeps their connections fast, as well as a robust support site with step-by-step tutorials on how to connect to its netflix servers on almost any device — an amazing resource for vpn newbies. additional features: on the security front, cyberghost users enjoy 256-bit encryption, an automatic kill switch, dns and leak protection, and an uncompromising no-logging policy. best for geographic diversity image: purevpn the good unlimited bandwidth • diverse server locations • split tunneling • dedicated netflix servers • 31-day money-back guarantee • 24/7 customer support the bad doesn't support cryptocurrency payments • dealt with privacy issues in the past, but they seem to have been resolved • doesn't support torrenting the bottom line a widespread network of servers and a recently revamped privacy policy make this one a solid pick. 3. purevpn a basic but competent vpn with an impressive amount of servers in africa — a rarity among its peers. monthly plan: $10.95/month one-year plan: $5.81/month two-year plan: $3.33/month see details purevpn has a decent-sized network of more than 2,000 servers that are scattered across 180 locations in 140 different countries, including places in asia, central america, and africa — which is more than most providers can say. most impressively, its 150 servers in africa are spread throughout 18 different countries there, which is basically unheard of as far as vpns go; most of the other vpns on this list have only one or two server locations on the whole continent. the only catch is that some of purevpn's african servers are virtual, not physical, which sometimes (but not always) results in slower speeds. overall, though, purevpn is a highly qualified provider, offering a split tunneling feature to conserve bandwidth, a kill switch, multiple logins for up to five devices, dns leak protection, 256-bit encryption, and support for all security protocols. it bears mentioning that the company came under fire in 2017 when it turned over a user's data logs to the fbi as part of a criminal investigation. but nowadays, they claim to abide by a no-log policy. additional features: you can upgrade your purevpn plan with a dedicated ip address, a port forwarding tool, and ip whitelisting (each sold separately). best for torrenting image: nordvpn the good blocks ads and malware • no-logging policy • 30-day money-back guarantee • unlimited bandwidth • kill switch • supports cryptocurrency payments the bad users may encounter a trade-off between security and speed the bottom line sign up for its three-year plan to snag p2p protection for cheap. 4. nordvpn nordvpn is a p2p beast, but be sure to play with its security settings to keep things speedy. monthly plan: $11.95/month one-year plan: $6.99/month (billed $83.88 every year) two-year plan: $4.99/month (billed $119.76 every two years) three-year plan: $3.49/month (billed $125.64 every three years) see details note: nordvpn has announced that it suffered a breach in march 2018 when a hacker exploited an insecure remote management system at a finnish data center from which the company was renting servers. we're keeping it on this list because we still think it's a strong contender in the vpn space, but until we see how the dust settles in the wake of this incident, it's no longer our no. 1 choice. click here to learn more. the peer-to-peer (p2p) mechanisms of torrenting make your ip address visible to everyone in your "swarm" — i.e., the group of people who have the other pieces of the file you're downloading. if that freaks you out, you should definitely download nordvpn, an affordable, panama-based vpn provider with tons of security offerings and a bunch of bittorrent-optimized servers. offering up to six simultaneous connections with apps for android, windows, macos, ios, android tv, and linux as well as browser extensions, nordvpn keeps your connection secure with double aes 256-bit encryption, an automatic kill switch, and dns leak protection on all your devices. (that's all on top of a strict no-logging policy, too.) it's also one of the few vpns that lets you route your traffic between its own secure vpn servers and the tor network, which creates an extra, extra secure connection and makes your online activities super difficult to track. the downside to enabling all of these privacy features while you're torrenting on a nordvpn server is that they can seriously slow down your connection — but if you're comfortable sacrificing a little security for speed, you can always tinker with your settings and temporarily disable certain tools. additional features: nordvpn users on windows, ios, macos, and linux can enable a setting called cybersec, which is a powerful ad blocker that can protect you from malware and ddos attacks. it shouldn't replace your dedicated security software, to be sure, but it's still nice to have. best for vpn experts image: private internet access the good supports cryptocurrency payments • highly customizable • no-logging policy • supports up to 10 simultaneous connections • robust knowledge base/product guides section on website • includes an ad/malware blocker • scores well in speed tests • kill switch the bad not great for netflix or torrenting • no split tunneling • only a seven-day money-back guarantee the bottom line a respectable vpn for users who know exactly what they want. 5. private internet access do as much (or as little) fiddling as you want with this highly flexible vpn. monthly plan: $6.95/month six-month plan: $5.99/month (billed $35.95 every six months) yearly plan: $3.33/month (billed $39.95 every year) see details if you've been around the vpn block a few times, so to speak, you should take advantage of everything private internet access has to offer. boasting more than 3,000 servers in 44 locations throughout 28 countries, pia (as it's commonly known) is a simple yet powerful vpn with a moddable interface. among other adjustable settings, it also lets you customize your data encryption and authentication algorithms and change the configuration of its ports. just like the other vpns on this list, pia upholds a no-logging policy and offers unlimited bandwidth on windows, macos, linux, ios, and android devices. plus, it can support an impressive 10 connections at once — that's double what most of its peers can handle. but for all the perks pia affords its users, it appears to be lacking reliable support for both netflix and torrenting; according to reviews, its service is very hit or miss in those departments. additional features: in addition to its vpn service, pia also offers a malware and ad blocker called mace that prevents potentially malicious domains from tracking your online activity. best for vpn novices image: ivacy vpn the good supports torrenting • app available for tons of platforms • 24/7 support • 30-day money-back guarantee • unlimited bandwidth • supports simultaneous connections on up to five devices • capable of unblocking netflix • split tunneling the bad only supports one form of cryptocurrency payments (bitcoin) • on the slow side the bottom line such a great service for so little money. what's the catch? 6. ivacy vpn this dirt-cheap provider is an awesome introduction to the world of vpns. monthly plan: $9.95/month one-year plan: $3.33/month (billed $40 every year) five-year plan: $1.33/month (billed $80 every five years) see details if you had no clue what "vpn" stood for prior to clicking on this post, ivacy vpn is the provider for you, our sweet summer child. its app is extremely easy to navigate thanks to its smart purpose selection feature, which chooses the right server for you based on your vpn needs (secure download, streaming, or unblocking). better yet, it's supported on basically every platform you can think of — even kodi, raspberry pi, xbox, playstation, roku, and blackberry (!) — and maintains a sizable network of more than 1,000 servers in over 100 locations. if you're still floating the idea of a vpn, ivacy's price tag might be the thing that wins you over: at $1.33 a month with a five-year plan, it's the cheapest service on this list. yet despite its low price, it doesn't skimp on security features like 256-bit encryption, a kill switch, and leak protection. additional features: for $1 and $1.99 a month, respectively, you can add port forwarding and a dedicated ip address to your ivacy vpn plan. editor’s note: ipvanish is owned by j2 global, the parent company of ziff davis, mashable’s publisher. any j2 products featured on mashable are covered independently by our content team. topics: apps, mashable deals, tech, vpn (virtual private networks) related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound heads up: all products featured here are selected by mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. if you buy something, mashable may earn an affiliate commission. related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.