skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » stunning wordpress video themes for embedded and self-hosted videos 2020 stunning wordpress video themes for embedded and self-hosted videos 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars theme collections 28 comments the list of the best wordpress video themes to create the next youtube, vimeo or to showcase videos and movies in style. video has become an important part of a commodity in our society. thanks to growing smartphone and tablet adoption, cheaper data tariffs and better cameras people have started to take a lot of videos. some of the most popular videos on youtube are shot using smartphones. it has become insanely difficult to stand out between other industry professionals due to increasing competition. meanwhile, everyone can make the next big thing on youtube and make millions of views. once you get more serious about videography it might be the right time to create a unique and professional website to showcase your work. this will get your more leads and other business opportunities as videographer, filmmaker, or hobby video capturer. on this list, we have collected themes that can be used to create youtube clones with frontend video submission, themes for professional film studios and other wordpress themes to host your own videos or embed them from youtube, vimeo, and other popular sources. let’s have a look at the best video wordpress themes you can install today. vlog vlog is a unique and beautiful video wordpress theme is on top of its game when it comes to video blogging, vlogging, video makers and related, similar websites. video tutorials, video lessons or reports has never been this simple or easy before, and with such professional results combined with resourceful flexibility. vlog auto-detects video thumbnails and displays them as the header of a video post, for instance, if you so choose. or it can group your videos in playlists for your convenience. vlog seamlessly handles all the modern video sharing platforms and is compatible with many more, among them youtube, vimeo, dailymotion, and twitch, making different niche markets more easily reached, while over 200 post layout combinations make sure your vlog is always the faithful presentation of your vision. try vlog today! more info / download demo soledad soledad is a flexible and easy to use wordpress video theme for video magazine style websites. it has been constructed with an ingenious set of creative tools and premium plugins and a huge collection of gorgeous demo websites simply waiting for you to find the right fit for your own website. it’s built packing two different, equally uncomplicated web design admin user interfaces, the wordpress live customizer and the wpbakery page builder, so you have the freedom to build your website however you are most comfortable. with over 300 included templates and demos, you will always find in soledad a gorgeous way to express yourself that matches the tone and style of your content perfectly. personal and professional bloggers alike prefer soledad for its clean aesthetic, seamless navigation experience and powerful plugins, such as the penci recipe plugin and the penci review plugin for food lovers and foodie bloggers or outright critics alike. soledad is the theme for those who need to be heard! more info / download demo magplus magplus is a flexible and modern responsive wordpress video blog and magazine website theme. this theme is the best platform to craft sleek, compelling new websites. personal and professional blogs, online magazines and more look great with magplus. getting things started is quick and simple. over 40 custom templates and infinite layouts offer impressive flexibility. magplus lets you fiddle with over 150 elements in endless ways. video-centric websites in particular look crisp and load fast with magplus. optimized for cutting-edge web media, magplus loads quick even under peak traffic. you don’t need to write a line of coding to get professional quality results with magplus. magplus has a completely visual design interface that is friendly for beginners. magplus has 25 different article layouts, 12 different header layouts and much more. more than 20 slick sliders keep things interesting. engage your audience, with magplus! more info / download demo pennews pennews is a modern and responsive video wordpress theme for magazine style websites. it’s a platform fit for the modern publication. with sophisticated features, pennews affords every blog the trappings of pro websites. dazzle audiences with tailored demos and polished templates. deploy a wealth of content widgets with wpbakery. cutting-edge coding handles your media in pixel-perfect presentation across all devices. pennews is perfect for video blogs, vlogs and video magazines. google amp and facebook instant articles keep server loads light across social media. awesome video sliders, galleries and portfolios showcase your visual content in flattering light. perfect seo drives traffic to your website without breaking a sweat. auto-translation features bring your whole website to new audiences in minutes. reach across language barriers and let your videos go viral. unique post styles make your content shine. give pennews a go, today! more info / download demo videoly videoly is a dedicated new-edge video wordpress theme. it includes a bunch of pre-built homepages to get you quickly set up. it also has a panel tweak for no code requirement and many modifications. videoly’s layout provides 6 different slider styles, unlimited sidebars and several custom widgets. videoly supports most video formats out there to be the most flexible as possible. it includes youtube, mp4, vimeo, dailymotion and many more! it is a retina ready theme with unlimited color options to get the best graphical experience. videoly is mobile friendly and supports most browsers out there too! it is based in redux framework for panel and bootstrap for design. you will get a tool to post documentaries, independent movies, blogs and more. videoly uses wpbakery page builder and many easy to use shortcodes for its panel. as for typography, you get google web fonts and wpml readiness. try its bonus social jumbo bundle pack! videoly is very well documented, especially with (can you guess?) video tutorials. it gets constant free updates and 5-star custom support as well. this themebubble design, and elite author creation will you blow away! it will bow away every video blogger out there! get it now and start install with one-click. try videoly now! more info / download demo vlogger vlogger is a professional tutorial and video wordpress theme. if you are a youtuber or you make video blogs, this theme is for you. if you make online courses or video tutorials, you are at home. it does not matter what your passion is: photography, food, travels or cars can work with it. it’s easy to use and you can add video carousels, grids or lists in a click! enjoy adding slideshows on every possible video format too. it’s mobile-first; hence, fast and responsive. custom widgets are perfect to add thumbnail posts lists. this theme is integrated with t2g reaktions plugin. it offers interactions, like social sharing, post like, number of views or star rating. make contact with customers by adding your own maichimp newsletter! vlogger has an exclusive tutorial interface for your video courses. vlogger provides a video tutorial, series mixed with drag-and-drop page builder wpbakery page builder. you also count with 12 ads slots to monetize your videos. place ads everywhere you want, in whichever design you wish including a fly-out ad. vlogger is well documented to guide you through all the creation process. it has outstanding support and free lifetime updates. if your business is related to videos, just get vlogger now! more info / download demo vidorev creating a video website with vidorev theme and wordpress is a piece of cake. no matter what is your level of technical skill, like coding and designing, vidorev lifts it up to the level eleven. in fact, even if you are new to the game, this convenient wordpress video theme offers even those who are utter beginners to create professional video review pages without a single drop of sweat. with vidorev, you can create niche or generic video pages with a web design that caters to your heart’s content to a t. to be more specific, you can build movie, technology, sports, travel and pretty much any other type of video website you would like. moreover, you can also create a membership area and continuously grow your loyal community and take your online project idea to an entirely new degree. more info / download demo newspaper newspaper is a beautiful and clea video theme designed to make your website stand out from the crowd. this template gives you the power to broadcast your videos in the most spectacular and engaging way. whether you want to build a video portal, or you need to develop a website that contains protected video content, newspaper is the right choice for you. newspaper is created by a power elite author and has become the best-selling wordpress news theme of all time. it comes with an intuitive interface and a responsive design. using tagdiv’s “mobile theme” plugin, your site will look amazing while delivering outstanding performance on any small screen device. fully integrated with youtube, vimeo and dailymotion, this theme allows you to create video posts and display them on your website’s homepage, pages, mega menus, sidebars, big grids, categories, footer and so on. newspaper comes with three video post styles, a dedicated video block and two custom built video playlists, with the autoplay function. this theme is capable of handling large amounts of content and it comes with over 20 unique demos ready to be imported on your website. from the powerful and intuitive theme panel area you can easily change the look & feel of your website, without any coding skills required. built using the best seo practices, newspaper theme has an intelligent ad system designed to make your website adsense ready in a few seconds. the author also added a custom plugin, social counter, designed to make your social network activity more visible. combine the ultimate storytelling technique, with high quality code, amazing design, performance & stability and create the most immersive experience for your visitors! more info / download demo jannah jannah is a friendly wordpress theme, it was thought for video sharing lovers. the ‘select and share’ is a neat feature that you are going to love. with jannah and ‘select and share, the end users are in control of the share function. all they need to do is highlight the video they want to share. jannah recognizes this, as the social media share function that shows the sharing options available. jannah is also a high performance (blazing speeds) allows you to share immediately your videos. and, your content is mobile-optimized and loads fast everywhere, with the amp project. moreover, jannah has perfect match features like video playlists. building video playlists for users is a great way to keep visitors longer. additionally, it’s that simple and integrated into the backend of jannah. it offers a beautifully fluid block with a scrolling list that is easy to access and intuitive to use. with over 20 fresh demos build ready to roll out. furthermore, you find a demo that pleases your interest. use the one-click demo import feature to get your design. from there you just need to update and customize as you wish. simple, fast, complete. jannah is waiting for you. get it! more info / download demo videobox videobox is a visually aesthetic wordpress theme designed to show video content. it is completely responsive with not only browsers but devices and screens. also, you will get it with retina ready image quality and an impressive customizer. moreover, the creators made videobox to support well-known platforms and to profit from services given. you will get compatibility for youtube, vimeo and more. it uses woocommerce for all ecommerce related thins. videobox has special features such as automatic video thumbnails and video tabs. some of these work for categories like most popular and recent posts. you will have full decision and liberty on which posts to display. social media connection for facebook and instagram is also provided. videobox is also a perfect theme for online streaming, news channels or online magazines. paparazzi and bloggers will love it! moreover, they gave it a versatile design meant for any type of business that involves showcasing videos. it has infinite scrolling, gallery sections, seo optimization and customizable backgrounds. you can even add logos and live previews. furthermore, videobox offers multiple headers, sidebars and widget area on homepage. you get a carousel-style and colors are unlimited and customizable by all means. get it with a one-click import to quickly start setting all your ideas! get videobox! more info / download demo videostories videostories is an incredible wordpress video theme. it was designed for youtubers, vloggers and video marketers. lots of functionalities to arrange a personal promotional website are included. videostories is the perfect choice for a start-up on this niche. it includes 9 awesome homepages and a great drag & drop page builder, wpbakery page builder, for free. adding videos from youtube, vimeo or dailymotion is fast and easy with its featured player. you also will get an imdb grabber to add that will allow you to get all the movie information in a simple click. videostories gives you useful pre-built widgets to get creative. it is also seo optimized and uses richsnippet. searching engines will put you on the map instantly! videostories has a modern and minimalistic style with a flexible and customizable layout. videos are supposed to be the main character of this story! it has 3 different types of single video page and 2 movie page play with. this theme comes with the wpml plugin and thus is translation ready. it has premium support, regular updates, and detailed documentation. you will get a multifunctional and easy to use theme. don’t wait more and try it with a fast and easy one-click install! try videostories! more info / download demo silverscreen silverscreen is a striking wordpress video theme for movies, filmmakers, production companies, heck, even vloggers. the versatility of silverscreen mixed with your creative touch take things to an entirely new degree. you get several different demos that you can take to your benefit right of the get-go. with silverscreen, you can start on the internet extremely fast. you do not even need to touch a single line of code to be able to make improvements to silverscreen. with silverscreen, you just mix and match the available, insert your branding regulations and have a fully functional page ready to roll. you can choose between five headers, multiple custom shortcodes, various portfolio layouts and pricing tables among loads more features. to create a professional, striking and impactful website for everything video-related, silverscreen is your best bet. more info / download demo videomag videomag is a modern and mobile friendly wordpress video theme. this theme has set of tools for creating, managing and maintaining gorgeous and potent video magazine websites, video aggregation service websites and all sorts of video playback and video production industry related websites. whether you are a trendy video blogger or a professional video tube service, videomag has the core features that will let you hit the ground running with your online-based video service website. with out of the box compatibility with services like youtube, dailymotion, vine, vimeo, twitch, as well as self-hosted video capacities, videomag will keep all eyeballs in the house firmly glued to your video content, incorporating minimalist and attractive layouts and graphic design that brings out the best of your website while keeping your users focused. let the world tune in, with videomag! more info / download demo the passion the passion is an epic and responsive wordpress music and video multipurpose website theme. a group of awesome folks designed the passion which is a very awesome theme. you also don’t need any coding experience to get polished, quality results with this theme. all you need is to select your preferred demo from the selection provided. then use the wpbakery page builder to drag and drop elements into the action and style them. also, customize your settings your advanced options panel for everything else you need. add smooth slideshows and cool carousels with the revolution slider. and hit the road with your brand-new custom made website. the passion is perfect for entertainment industry endeavors and media-savvy personal websites alike. independent filmmakers, garage bands, music video magazines, you name it, the passion’s got it. moreover, the passion has sweet modern features like video parallax sections or 80 custom elements. furthermore, you can combine then in any way you choose to and make incredible things come to life. with woocommerce, you can market your albums, tracks, films or merchandise with utter ease. within minutes you can set up your online music or video store. greatly seo enhanced, the passion will skyrocket your ranking to the top of every engine. try the passion now! more info / download demo viem viem is a wordpress video theme with eight one-of-a-kind and creative demos, as well as over fifty ready-to-use shortcodes and widgets. out of the box, you can start your own online video project and appear professional from the very beginning. besides, viem also practices all the modern tech and design trends to make sure your video page stands the test of time and offers impressive and outstanding experience watching videos from any device. different video player styles, live comments, playlists, video channels, you name it, you can create all the mentioned and loads more with your fresh new page. thanks to the sophisticated viem, you can always take the extra step and customize and enhance the experience to fit your visitors precisely. see the magic happen with viem and get the excitement through the roof. more info / download demo true mag true mag is an awarded wordpress theme made for videos and magazines. it has 11 homepages and a super responsive layout. you will get to play continuous pixel perfect quality slides all day. get within its design multiple headers, and an advertisement banner. the creators built this theme particularly for video publicities. they built true mag with ux aside from wpbakery page builder. you also will get specialized features to make the experience as professional as possible. it includes a rating system for videos, preview bubble, quick view, and more. moreover, true mag handles built-in widgets for videos like popular, trending and top categories. set up shops with woocommerce, and translate posts with wpml. additionally, it uses font awesome and icons, google fonts typography and wpmu memberships. moreover, they designed true mag to create an impact on clients’ eyes. it focuses on graphics, files compatibilities, and the best video quality ever. furthermore, this theme lets you build a page with the quality of pages like youtube or vimeo. it has a sign up system and uses a flexible design for both boxed and full width pages. you will find a clean code and seo optimizations. overall, you will not get such a specialized theme anywhere else! get true mag right now! more info / download demo leitmotif leitmotif is an all-around wordpress theme for everything video, movie and film studio-related. it is a modern, powerful and very enticing solution that will help you establish a website in a breeze. in this day and age, you do not need to build a page from scratch. heck, you do not even need to hire a professional to do it for you. with the use of leitmotif, or any other tool in this collection, you can make it happen all on your own. even if you are with no website building experience. tons of homes, portfolio layouts, practical inner pages, wpbakery, slider revolution and an array of shortcodes and widgets, leitmotif rocks it all. the design is compatible with all modern devices, web browsers, retina screens and popular plugins. get the ball rolling with leitmotif and enjoy the neat outcome. more info / download demo bazna bazna is a video wordpress theme that you can utilize for all sorts of video needs and intentions. in other words, it is a flexible tool for film studios and videographers. with the included five samples, you can quickly find the right look for your website. from then on, you can also enrich the default appearance of bazna with elementor, a drag and drop page builder. that’s right, no coding knowledge is necessary to start making moves online with bazna. of course, along with the index pages, bazna also comes with other handy inner layouts for you to mix and match. different headers and footers, rtl support, animations, one click installation, unlimited colors and contact form 7 are all the different specialties of bazna. it also treats you to extensive documentation and great support for a successful website realization. more info / download demo surround since vlogging is quite a hype nowadays, you might be looking for a wordpress video theme that will do the trick. instead of solely relying on all the video-sharing platforms, step things up with an official website. thanks to surround, you can now make one without a sweat. there are six cracking demos at your disposal to use them as they come out of the box or enrich them further. the drag and drop page builder allows for quick customization that everyone can execute efficiently. start with the one click installation process. from then on, you are pretty close to the finished version of your killer online presence. just a few refining touches, and you can have the design all set and ready to rock and roll. start stuffing it with your compelling video content and other whatnot and grow a community of loyal followers. more info / download demo videopro video pro is a premium quality specialized video wordpress theme. you can use this theme best for video posting and managing of all sorts. it aims to make your page the new competition to world recognition platforms. video pro, similar to vimeo, allows visitors to submit posts. it has many specific features such as playlists, channels, live broadcast and more. you can easily connect with your social media platforms for an extra exposure. also, video pro has databases banks for movies, television shows and such. you will get to set a personalized watch-later option and to get people rating videos. video pro allows importing videos of other known platforms, like youtube. it uses buddypress for interaction and follow ups of viewers. it also features awesome membership plugin by wpmu integration for memberships and subscriptions. video pro, like mobile youtube, lets you watch videos while searching content. users will also get monthly updates and bug fixes aside from the provided custom support. with this theme, you will integrate the best features on the market. it also represents a new lifestyle of video watching. video pro lets users download content (depending on admin choice) through simple buttons. it features more than 10 pre-built layouts and has unlimited colors customization options! start using this packed up amazing theme now! use video pro! more info / download demo newman sharing video content online is as easy as pie once you have the right set of tools at hand. with any of the wordpress video themes that we have here in store for you, you can hammer out a striking online presence that will kick off your online project in style. newman is a neat, easy to use and 100% mobile-ready content-sharing site canvas with a great deal of ready-to-use demos. if you are a vlogger, a filmmaker, you would like to create an online portfolio or simply interested in starting a video blog, you can do it all with newman. with the one-click feature, you can import the sample of choice and start using it right away. you might even want to employ the demo of preference out of the box, but you can also step things up and get as creative as you want. choose between different header layouts, create custom footer and benefit from the outstanding performance that newman ensures. more info / download demo netube netube is a high-class wordpress video theme with five demos and more dropping with future updates. dark and light layouts are available for you to employ and fine-tune according to your preference. with the drag and drop approach to web development, you do all the coding work visually. how cool does that sound? instead of getting lost in lines of code, you just drag and drop elements until the final web design matches your taste. additionally, you can translate your page to any language you want, too. for videos specifically, netube comes with a neat upload form to allow others to share content with you. other treats include convenient category search filter, custom widgets, social media integration, coming soon page, child theme and envious speed performance. you can modify netube to the very last detail and have a superb video-sharing web platform live swiftly. more info / download demo vodi are you interested in starting a web platform similar to youtube, netflix or amazon prime? if that is the case, vodi is the dedicated wordpress video theme you should consider. this extraordinary website canvas comes with nine homes, four headers, four footers and 47 custom gutenberg blocks. you can also pick between dark or light mode. besides, vodi as well comes with five full-blown demos that cover all the ideas you have for sharing movies and television shows, starting a video magazine and more. for as long as you have an open mind, you have no limitations when doing the work with vodi. of course, vodi works smoothly on smartphones, tablets and desktop devices, guaranteeing impressive performance. speaking of performance, the tool is enhanced with fast loading speed, as well as optimized for search engines. more info / download demo magellan magellan is a modern and easy to use wordpress video theme. this theme is a dedicated online video news magazine platform, an amazing resource for everyone place to tell stories and gather audiences around new media in sleek presentation. the intuitive drag and drop wpbakery page builder, integrated along with the revolution slider slideshow builder, set you up with everything you need to fine-tune the look and feel of your website, while magellan’s potent framework takes care of all your video news posting needs with a plethora of options and styles, seamless youtube embedding and remote or local hosted video posts, a series of thrilling, dynamic layouts and website templates for a myriad niche market applications all featuring your video content up, front and center, a gorgeous frosted glass modern display as well as amazing sliding articles, parallax backgrounds, smart sidebars, trending articles widgets, tons of social media integration features and even fully functional forums via both the bbpress and buddypress. try magellan now! more info / download demo videotube videotube wordpress theme could provide you a fully responsive and functional website template for your video websites. this modern theme also comes with amazing and advanced features that you can use in collecting, posting and sharing outstanding videos online. videotube is a versatile theme suitable both for video and audio streaming website. videotube has tons of features including the built in jwplayer, tons of skins included, color options, massive layout combinations, member system and so much more. additionally, posting and sharing videos using videotube is fast and easy. it also allows other people to submit their videos or contribute to your website. furthermore, it includes features like built-in like system, social media integration and a visual composer. more info / download demo videozoom videozoom is an elegant theme with a neat featured content slider, ready to play any videos you want to embed into your posts. with jw player integration you can even play your self-hosted videos! videozoom theme is around for a while but recently faced major overhaul to keep up with wordpress development and latest design trends. more info / download demo vidiho vidiho is a clean, modern and responsive wordpress theme designed and developer for vloggers. additionally, this theme uses wordpress’s built-in video functionality which makes embedding videos really easy. this theme also features a full-width content slider that you can use to showcase your videos in hd quality directly from vimeo, youtube and other websites. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. film studiogamersvideovlogswordpress themesyoutubers share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts pet breeding and care wordpress themes this collection of pet breeding and care wordpress themes dedicated to all specialists and bloggers… outdoor activities wordpress themes for fishing, hunting, camping are you looking for an outdoor adventure wordpress theme for ecommerce or local business? these… 24 beautiful flower website templates for spring mood 2020 to find flower templates of the high quality can be a real challenge. even if… top 30+ wordpress themes for local businesses, startups and other small enterprises 2020 small local businesses are crucial for every community but building even a small business is… 25+ psychology, counseling & medical wordpress themes worth your attention despite what you might hear, many therapists do not have a website or wait to… 10+ best virtual assistant wordpress themes if you are a provider of consulting services, that is looking for ways to go… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 13 best wordpress taxi booking themes 2020 next post: best hunting wordpress themes you shouldn’t miss 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×