skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » awesome responsive wordpress themes for architects, landscape architects and architectural firms 2020 awesome responsive wordpress themes for architects, landscape architects and architectural firms 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars theme collections 19 comments a comprehensive collection of the best architecture wordpress themes for architect corporate, portfolio and personal websites and blogs. architecture has always been a niche service due to its specification and high cost. in this business, you can get only a few leads but there is a high chance that you can make millions of out these leads. every lead in this business is very important and this is why you must use all marketing and communication changes. the website is the best option among these communication channels. we have gathered the list of the top wordpress theme for architects to showcase your work, portfolio and promote your services. all these themes are awesome and highly customizable to suit your personal and business needs. without further ado let’s have a look at these amazing architecture wordpress themes: oshine oshine is a clean and elegant responsive wordpress creative multipurpose website theme. architects, landscape designers, architectural firms and interior designers love this theme. no matter your field, oshine packs the templates and plugins you need to succeed. gorgeous portfolios showcase your works in a splendid way. oshine has over a dozen menu styles and with 4 exclusive demos for architects, it gives you various styles to build your website, be it professional, elegant or classy. conceptual sections make your content engaging and dynamic. parallax backgrounds and animations dazzle and impress potential clients. and the tatsu frontend page builder brings it all together with endless customization. by combining modern designs with fast-loading, high-performance code, oshine keeps things smooth with cutting-edge tech. intuitive, and well-documented, oshine is perfect for both seasoned and novice users. unique grids and slides present your works to the world in a most memorable fashion. make your mark, with oshine! more info / download demo inteco inteco is one of the best wordpress themes for architects and interior designers alike. it provides multiple options to get online in a unique and striking way. you now have full control of your web presence with the included and ready-to-use demos and numerous other features and assets. with inteco, you can have your web space sorted out in full almost instantly. of course, you can bring web design a step further and introduce your signature style to inteco, but that is not a necessity. some of the goodies of inteco are six demos and tons of other internal pages, super smooth layout and a powerful and convenient page builder. with just one click, you can import demo content and start putting it to use immediately after. you can go as creative as you would like or you can keep things as is, whatever suits your needs best. expand your business with inteco and start taking new business deals on a regular. more info / download demo divi divi is a stylish and flexible theme perfect for building a professional website for architectural firms, and architecture portfolios. with divi, your website will certainly look stunning when viewed on any devices and browsers. it comes with amazing theme features such as extensive header, easy-to-customize homepage, several navigation options stylish icons and font and color options that you can use in building an inimitable landing page for your architecture websites. its video and parallax backgrounds also allow you to present your company or portfolio in an elegant way possible. moreover, this theme supports woocommerce to help you build your own online store in an instant. if you haven’t decided if divi theme is the right one for you, make sure to read our detailed theme review. more info / download demo jevelin jevelin is a wordpress theme that caters to just about any industry you can think of. it is a multi-purpose tool with a massive volume of features and incredible characteristics that will do you well. jevelin is also ideal for architects and interior designers. it comes with beautiful and high performing demos that you can use to serve your needs however you fancy. there is no coding required to work with jevelin. whether you are new to the website establishment game or experienced, the end result can always be a sophisticated and professional website thanks to the fantastic jevelin. the awe-inspiring jevelin comes with over twenty demos, more than forty custom shortcodes and is 100% ready for rtl languages. before you dive in, you can first watch the video tutorial and see how simple and effortless the process of creating an architect website is. more info / download demo infinite infinite is an incredibly versatile and flexible architect wordpress theme. this theme is a potent and pliable solution for everyone from any background and of any experience level who need an adequately professional homepage for their business. architects in particular love infinite’s supremely customizable visual layout and arrangement, via the unique goodlayers drag and drop page builder, affords you in your website a veritable blank canvas for you to modularly craft your ideal pages and whole sites in a matter of minutes, aiding yourself with the plethora of sophisticated demo websites and templates included which you can customize at your leisure with infinite’s boundless advanced admin theme settings. infinite is also visually inspired like no other theme on the market, with the power combination of the layerslider, revolution slider, master slider and the gorgeous ilightbox premium plugins, which make it a walk in the park to make your content speak for itself in animated, elegant presentations and interactive portfolios and galleries that come alive when browsed. try infinite today! more info / download demo kalium there are few architecture-related wordpress themes that offer so many features and customization options. the more options you have, the better and more personal your page will look. there are over 800 personalized icons and 600 google fonts. you can rest assured that you are given the tools to create a unique site and not just another cookie-cutter page. and if you do not manage to find a font that fits your vision, you may use kalium’s features to upload your own. this theme is retina ready, as it looks amazing on retina high definition displays. you do not have to worry about crashes and latency when resizing, or any other type of compatibility problem. kalium is entirely responsive, and it works great on desktop computers and mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones. basically, anything that has a display and can connect to the internet may seamlessly showcase your content. visitors can expect astounding images, texts, and fonts. kalium’s blogging features are excellent, assuring that you can pick between various post types and blog layouts. even the maintenance mode is creative and unique. the installation process will not take long. you only need to click once, and this theme will do the rest. the hallmark of a good wordpress theme is when vast complexity is hidden behind a simple interface, brought together by a user-friendly design style. a large number of pages were crafted in adobe photoshop, and they are included as extra files with the theme package. more info / download demo webify webify is a modern, minimal and professional wordpress theme for architects. with its elegant web design, you can now present all your works and projects in the best possible light on the web. no need to be an expert web developer to establish the necessary website for your architect firm. by employing webify, you get a nifty demo out of the box for your convenience. to top it all up, you also do not need to do any coding when it comes to webify. the tool includes handy drag and drop page builder which requires mouse skills only. some more goodies of webify include mobile-ready layout, cross-browser compatibility, speed optimization, sticky menu, gallery, blog and contact page. besides, hover effects only spice up the experience, keeping everyone engaged and intrigued by your sophistication. more info / download demo arcdeco arcdeco is an absolutely mind-bending wordpress theme for architects and architectural firms. it is a powerful and practical solution that will help you establish a top-notch online presence to push your projects and services to new heights. and you will, as arcdeco will capture everyone’s attention right from the get-go. even if you employ this design out of the box, you can expect an extraordinarily amazing outcome that will move mountains. however, you can fully customize, brand and personalize it to match arcdeco with your signature style. moreover, in the bundle, you will discover three neat home pages, dark and light modes, catchy animations, parallax effect and acf pro plugin at no extra cost. of course, arcdeco’s layout is in tune with all modern devices, web browsers and retina screens. bring into being a first-class architecture page with arcdeco, entirely avoiding coding and other advanced tasks. more info / download demo the architect the architect wordpress theme is a clean, minimal and stylish template developed by wplook. it is built based on sass, which offers extensive features and functionalities than any other css extension language available in the market. this theme is perfect for showing off your designs and persuades potential clients to hire your services. the architect wordpress theme is totally responsive and runs elegantly on different types of devices and screen resolutions. this theme is packed with html, xml and psd files to easily design and personalize your website. it includes custom post types and 2 widget areas to easily build an online presence for your architectural firm. it includes unlimited color options, customizable header, custom theme background and ability to upload your own favicon and logo. you can use the built-in fullwidth slider for showcasing your best works and designs to the world. the simple design of the theme makes your content standout. it has a drop-down menu that makes your website easier to explore. the architect is skillfully crafted using valid html5 and css3 coding to help you keep pace with the latest trends in website design. furthermore, it is fully compatible with all major web browsers to accommodate all your potential web visitors. more info / download demo composer in the architecture field, it is important for business owners to showcase the best projects they’ve got to get clients hooked and interested. luckily, composer is professionally oriented to artistic crowds, with more than 75 demo options. tons of these are specialized in companies such as architecture, construction and interiors. composer uses a codeless design based on the wpbakery page builder. hundreds of shortcodes will be available to start up your customizations. even third-party plugins like slider revolution for galleries will be at your disposal! composer is a retina-ready image quality tool built to focus on looks. with its 100% responsiveness, it is able to adapt to any and all screens and browsers. it has options to display services and showcasing products. set custom backgrounds with videos or animations with css3. have fun choosing between colors, fonts and header options or using blogs and blocks. money and selling affaires are easy to manage, thanks to the woocommerce plugin. composer is fast, indeed optimized for performance and is compatible with yoast. it is made to create a strong and memorable impact on clients. it offers unlimited portfolios and blogs to post just about anything to make you look good. use its free custom support and documentation to get guided all the way. have fun while working on your projects! use composer! more info / download demo leadengine if you are an architect, solo or an agency, and you do not have a website sorted out yet, you must do it today. tomorrow, it might already be too late and you will miss one of the biggest offers of your entire career. for a quick solution to your web presence, here is leadengine. although the tool covers a wide range of niches, we can also categorize it as a wordpress theme for architects. you will love it! it has a beautiful website demo included in the bundle that you simply will not be able to resist it. and the look of that same demo you can sport for your final creation, too. you just import it into wordpress with one click, add your content and that is pretty much it. of course, you can modify it and fill it with your individual taste but that is not necessary. leadengine is top-notch. it is optimized for remarkable performance. also, it does not shy away from any challenges. more info / download demo revolution revolution is an outstanding wordpress theme for architects and other creative minds. it is a multi-purpose solution for all your web design questions. regardless your end product idea, revolution makes sure to realize it for you. while it has loads of predesigned demos at your disposal, revolution still allows you to edit and personify the theme however you fancy. doing anything and everything with revolution will always be an easy task. the list of features this supreme theme brings you are endless. from over two hundred available elements and stunning portfolio details to enticing pre-made headers, impressive typography management and unlimited colors to name a few. revolution is also optimized for super fast loading speeds to deliver excellent user experience. speaking of users, the theme is entirely responsive and cross-browser compatible to work fluently on any device and platform. if you are looking to build a page for your architectural project, revolution is your best bet. more info / download demo massive dynamic massive dynamic is a very sleek and attractive, deliberate and purposeful, intelligent and tech-savvy responsive wordpress creative multipurpose website builder. this theme is a supremely powerful platform for the design, creation and development of gorgeous modern websites across a myriad different industries and fields. crafted with devoted attention to detail and a unique resourcefulness, massive dynamic combines the latest in web development technology and premium plugins with an intuitive, visual interface for crafting layouts, applying settings, configuring shortcodes and importing templates, all in real time, through the live website builder. this clever tool combines the freedom of the wpbakery page builder with the appeal of the master and revolution sliders, the convenient pricing plan functionality of go pricing and several more plugins greatly customized to form a cohesive whole. that is why massive dynamic makes for a fantastic core for architecture websites in general, from freelance architects to architectural studios and firms, including landscape and interior design architects as well. with massive dynamic’s impressive portfolio layout designs and templates, showcasing your best works in the most favorable light is a simple, intuitive matter, and highlighting your finest pieces just right is an easy task with the portfolio live rearrange masonry grid resizing feature. form follows massive dynamic! more info / download demo mies mies is a bright and minimalist, sleek and youthful, polished and professional architecture and photography wordpress website theme. it is easy to use and fully responsive theme ready to take your website to the next level. it’s a handsome and completely inventive wordpress theme. it is built atop a robust html5 coding backbone and css3 styling technology greatly expanded by the sophisticated usage of the most modern and potent hardware powered parallax visual effects, which thoroughly permeate the entirety of mies. it’s the perfect theme for architects and designers, and all creative professionals looking for a solid, attractive portfolio and gallery websites that are capable of engaging potential clients and employers in a deep, meaningful manner that will definitely raise your business profile as well as increase your overall business in a matter of days. mies is seo enhanced, meaning your architectural website will quickly raise the ranks across all search engines out there. mies’ sophisticated deployment of parallax sections, full blown parallax high resolution image backgrounds and video backgrounds, and far more under the hood, without ever having to write a single line of code. give mies a try! more info / download demo ambient ambient is a wordpress theme for architects and interior designers to showcase your extraordinary works. the complete set of twelve ready-made demos is entirely customizable and easy to use. pretty much anyone out there can forge a website with ambient. for your information, the tool requires no prior experience aka no coding knowledge. with a simple process of dragging and dropping you avoid programming entirely. hurray for wpbakery. to put your projects on display professionally, ambient’s elegant and contemporary portfolio and single project layouts will do the magic. moreover, ambient has advanced typography options, mobile-ready layout, woocommerce compatibility and social media integration. each ambient user is also treated to a friendly team of experts that will answer any question you may have. starting on the web is child’s play when benefitting from tools such as ambient. more info / download demo themo themo is an elegant and responsive wordpress creative multipurpose website theme. this theme is an advanced platform for crafting unique modern websites. themo requires no coding experience to deliver professional quality results. put together smooth, innovative parallax powered websites in a matter of minutes. incredible animations and gorgeous transitions are easy to deploy and customize at will. with themo you get access to 5 premium plugins for perfecting your pages. the wpbakery page builder and layer slider plugins simplify visual development. making classy websites from scratch or with a template is fast and easy. themo is also ideal for creative professionals, architects, landscape designers and related industries. themo includes tons of purposeful custom pages you can deploy with a single click. the revolution slider and vc carousel plugins spruce up your users’ navigational experience. the grid makes elegant page design effortless and modern. themo takes you by the hand through the entire design and development process. but creative freedom is where themo excels the most. the parallax composer’s intuitive framework allows for awesome sophistication capabilities. themo packs portfolio capabilities to suit your every need. impress your clients and increase your business overnight, with themo. check out themo today, and make it your own! more info / download demo norebro norebro is a flexible and trendy wordpress theme suited for many different types of business including architecture firms. it is a documented and plugin packed tool that offers 30+ demos to have fun with. one of its strengths compared to the competition is tech business. norebro also uses a combination of wpbakery page builder, 90+ shortcodes and acf pro to make set up quick and code free. customization of fixed header, parallax, colors, portfolios is simply beautiful. norebro is also retina ready with amazing responsiveness and image adaptability. this provides stunning graphics to showcase products. text translation (wpml) and search engines are also optimized for wider visibility. make awesome galleries and posts to sell everything between slider revolution and woocommerce. everything needed to make your business truly emerge, is at the palm of your hands. get this cool lifesaver creation from colabrio with support and updates. get norebro! more info / download demo ekko with ekko, a wordpress theme for architects, you can hammer out a page for agencies and freelancers. without a sweat, you can now have a professional and extraordinary web space ready for the launch in a small breeze. on the page, you can present all your past and current projects, market your superior services and more. in fact, you can even start a blog and sell your design creations. sometimes, you just want to keep things simple, pick a predefined layout and complete the work in the shortest amount of time possible. ekko practices all the current web development trends and regulations, keeping you safe and secure. speaking of which, ekko is 100% responsive and flexible, fluently reshaping to handheld and desktop devices. it also flows smoothly on all popular browsers and secures you with top-notch performance. you have all the tools and equipment to create an architecture website that will make moves. more info / download demo kallyas kallyas is wordpress of multiple purposes. it provides many homepages and demos to start with. it even includes one dedicated only to architecture. additionally, you will get a powerful tool with features that require resolution and responsiveness. kallyas for architects is pixel perfect, and all browsers and screens adapted. it uses a drag & drop page builder and a large variety of sliders including 2 revolution slider based. you will also find unlimited colors and layouts to customize including many portfolio styles. with these, projects and finished constructions or designs can be easily displayed. go on and show off a little! kallyas works smoothly thanks to an emphasis on sliders, image and color variety. it also gives woocommerce integration to sell and wpml translations. use mailchimp to get clients to sign up! kallyas is bootstrap based and contact form 7 compatible. kallyas has cool design aspects like unlimited animated header variations. it serves for setting up any kind of business that requires large publicity spaces. it works too for beautiful backgrounds and user interaction. kallyas is bbpress integrated to therefore create diverse and fun discussion forums. it also features constant awesome updates and documentation. start showing projects around with comfort and reassurance. get kallyas for architects! more info / download demo etalon etalon is a versatile wordpress theme suitable for professional services. it comes with more than 20 amazing niche demos to get handy. they allow selling your services in an appealing aesthetic way. one of those is for architecture. a group of architects has to show the projects they have done, right? well, etalon gives you a responsive and drag-able portfolio carousel. add unlimited images and upload many photos and display them in a grid too. additionally, you can showcase your work and your work team! etalon has service tabs to display in an organized format your services, and prices lists. it’s easy to use, simple and in no-time. etalon also includes wpbakery page builder and revolution slider. these are premium plugins to customize layout and multimedia display. you can also enjoy testing your icon pack from iconsmind. to create your website, etalon is simply a premium choice. moreover, it offers you a powerful theme options panel, a fast performance and great typography. furthermore, you will find it all in a mobile-optimized design and no lines of codes required. if you need guidance, support and documentation are given! 100% customer satisfaction is their aim. benefit from the lifetime free updates. don’t go around looking further, get etalon architecture! more info / download demo konstructo konstructo is one of the best wordpress themes for architects with all the necessary equipment for a quick page launch. if you are looking to speed up the process of establishing a striking online presence, do the right thing with konstructo. just like any other theme on this list, konstructo also rocks all the current trends and regulations, ensuring a smooth and stable performance. konstructo is responsive, cross-browser compatible and retina-ready. in addition to that, konstructo is optimized for seo and speed, too. with the available two homes and header styles, you pretty much have more than enough options to find the right style for your website. konstructo is clean and minimal, efficiently catering to different intentions and tastes. showcase your beautiful portfolio, market your services, start a blog, heck, even sell products online, with konstructo, a ton is possible. more info / download demo intoria intoria is a spectacular wordpress theme for interior designers and architects with a creative design. instead of one, intoria brings to the table four different styles of homes, all very modern and sophisticated. that said, you can freely use the tool out of the box and have a page all set and ready to go in little to no time. along with the homes, intoria also comes with tons of inner page styles and multiple other features and functions. some of the features of intoria include parallax effects, custom backgrounds, slider revolution, social icons, different headers and product carousels. to create a strong first impression on your visitors and potential clients, intoria will surely do the trick. keep in mind, if you are interested in tweaking intoria, you do it with the drag and drop technique. more info / download demo altoona altoona is a wordpress theme for architects that will help bring into fruition a first-class website. the tool comes with five index and several more inner page designs for you to mix and match accordingly. in addition to that, king composer builder will help you enhance and improve the look of altoona that will match your liking precisely. no need to be a professional to have a chance and master the game. in fact, you can be in the process of building your very first page and succeed at it. altoona comes with tons of stuff that will give you an edge. from child theme and psd files to widget-rich footer, full-screen slider, sticky navigation and scrolling animations, it is all part of the altoona deal. altoona also does not miss online store, blog and full-blown contact section for your convenience. more info / download demo craft craft is an elegant and responsive wordpress architecture and design portfolio website theme. it lets you build impressive portfolio websites without writing any code. completely visual processes allow you to construct modern, clean graphic environments. showcase your content in a slender and sophisticated presentation. crisp and minimal, craft packs dozens of professionally designed demo website templates. setting up show is as easy as picking your favorite portfolio and customizing in a few clicks. a sophisticated admin panel also allows you to fiddle with layouts, settings and options. engaging single project pages are perfect for showcasing your finest architectural works. freelancers, firms and collectives in the architecture industry love craft. it gives them a profound sense of identity in presenting themselves to the world. at the same time, it takes away all the hassle involved in website building. craft is fast and easy, and will make your content shine brighter than ever before. additionally, beautiful custom grids structure your website exactly the way you want. resize and deploy elements and modules at will and build whole pages from scratch. or put together a static page portfolio with handsome slideshow transitions. the possibilities are limitless with craft. take your architectural work to the next level, with craft! more info / download demo throne throne is an excellent theme for freelance architects, architectural firms and studios, architectural landscapers and all sorts of architecture related websites. built with vastly visual portfolio capabilities and a marvelously elegant user interface, throne has all the sophisticated homepage styles, menu styles, layouts and grids required for you to show off gorgeous renders, drafts and project plans in all their visual glory, with a distraction and hassle-free visual language that ensures your audience and potential clients are fully focused on your precious work. throne has been built with the latest css3 technology, for lightweight and fast-loading smooth transitions and animations, while the powerful bootstrap framework supports its developer-friendly, inherently responsive and natively universally cross-compatible modular design. sit on top of the world, with throne! more info / download demo h-code h-code is a gorgeous and deeply stylish wordpress one page and multipage multipurpose theme. this theme is also a perfect answer to the needs of all sorts of website designers and creators, from professionals and freelancers to business, agencies and firms of any kind. moreover, h-code’s unique capabilities for showing off attractive product portfolios, gorgeous high resolution image galleries and a slew of different, amazing layouts and templates, coming in at over 57 different home pages and over 190 different page templates readily available for your convenience, make h-code a favorite for creative professionals, including architects, landscape architects, interior designers and decorators, and all similar, related fields. with h-code making short work of all your coding, developing and website designing work, you can relax and sit back and let your works speak for you, capturing new business and clients with ease and speed and dressed in the latest trendy design styles. with wpbakery page builder, you can truly craft your own spaces on the web for your architectural business, and watch your client list grow! more info / download demo dessau render a pixel-perfect website with a theme that specializes in the architecture field. presenting dessau, a wordpress theme for architects and interior designers. with dessau, you can showcase your projects professionally thanks to dessau’s impressive collection of portfolios and layouts. additionally, all templates are flexible and customizable to impress even the most meticulous tastes. import demos in a single click and drag and drop elements relatively. no need to be a coder to develop and design an architecture website with dessau. you can enhance the look and even add add-ons and different components to improve your website’s overall functionality. also, you can sell stuff with dessau’s ecommerce plugin, woocommerce. there’s no mistake in saying that this theme is the only one you need for web design. get the gist of it, head over to its live preview page and see the magic happen. more info / download demo fount fount is a very flexible theme that provides a unique layout for your business needs. it offers a minimalist and ready-to-use layout design for architects and architectural firms. the layout’s simple and straightforward design also helps your website and works stand out from the crowd. additionally, it comes with a stunning clear header and easy animations to create an arresting architecture website. moreover, the developers added other premium theme features that expedite the website development process. furthermore, the theme’s simple & powerful admin panel makes customization a breeze. you can use this theme for creating splendid one-page websites and you can also use it to create multi-page sites. more info / download demo initiative innovative, impressive and intuitive, the initiative theme is the ultimate tool to use, thanks to its powerful framework. this wordpress theme for architects also works for interior designers, so expect a wondrous collection of designs and layouts that are undeniably captivating. other fields include gardening, technology, agency and more. in short, initiative is a highly compatible and adjustable theme that you can use for all bunch of different intentions. any beginner in web design can adapt well to initiative’s features. meanwhile, the tool is also expert-friendly so anyone can get the most out of it and use it to its full potential. initiative is also woocommerce compatible, which means you can expand your online portfolio with an online store and sell your creations. push your services and masterpieces online with initiative and scale your business with new project deals. more info / download demo architecturer with all the amazingness and expertness architecturer brings to the table, it seems that this theme reigns supreme. this wordpress theme for architects has twelve homes and eleven portfolio layouts, all of which are renowned by creative designers. for single portfolio layouts, you get seven ready to use options, which you can drag and drop to adjust easily. moreover, there are nineteen slider layouts available which you can utilize for showing galleries, pages, blogs and more. you may also attract leads with the timeline element. this lets you brandish multiple content types like achievements and company background. but do modify the theme to your likings with the intuitive website builder and shine online. there are more options to explore with architecturer, so give it a go and you will never look back. more info / download demo fatmoon fatmoon is an attractive wordpress creative photography website theme. this theme is a very sleek and stylish tool for the quick and painless design and development of sophisticated modern websites with a creative flair to them, capable of eloquently presenting high resolution visual content in a most favorable light while still providing a seamlessly intuitive and fluid user interface that allows visitors to find their way about your website with minimal obtrusiveness. that makes fatmoon a natural fit for architects, landscape architects, freelancers, architectural firms and design studios. with fatmoon, portfolio configuration options abound, ensuring your works are presented to potential clients and customers in the most innovative and captivating displays possible. additionally, with smooth parallax backgrounds and impressive html5-powered video backgrounds, dynamic masonry or grid layouts and much more. fatmoon is not just for capturing new the eye of clients, it can also capture new business effortlessly, owing to the integrated industry-standard woocommerce e-commerce plugin suite, which simplifies the process of offering your services or products to the public, making it a matter of a single click import. overall, fatmoon has what it takes to take your architectural work to the next level. get onboard! more info / download demo avada avada is fully capable of handling the needs and requirements of an enormously vast range of websites from personal to commercial to corporate. however, it’s peculiarly suited for the needs of architectural firms, interior design firms, landscaping firms and engineering firms that wish to establish their online presence in a professional, aesthetically pleasant way that is sure to attract new business with stunning visuals and amazing parallax scrolling that makes your every page a subtle, beautiful work of art. powerful gallery grids and layouts let you display your professional portfolios in retina-ready visual glory, using one of the many dozens of templates provided, easily customized to your heart’s desire with the potent fusion builder plugin and advanced admin theme customization options that will make your website unique and recognizable. flexible customized icons and icon fonts make your content and information attractive and appealing, keeping your customers engaged to the end. offer project management services of all sorts with readily available pricing guides, interactive product galleries, custom pages for staff, contact, and all sorts of imaginable other templates to ease your workload. let avada do the heavy lifting, and you take care of the creation! more info / download demo folie folie is a multipurpose wordpress theme specialized in simplicity and for users. it is responsive and easy to craft with premium quality add-ons and compatibilities. it also comes with a one-click demo install and a child theme included. moreover, folie gives you an unthinkable amount of options for portfolio and blog layouts. it also supports shops with woocommerce and galleries with lightbox or any of its sliders. page building could not get easier with the fast wpbakery page builder. additionally, folie is translatable thanks to known wpml and even features the great ajax contact form. you can also best suit this theme for the business life, showcasing, and websites made to get profits of some kind. you will get incredible typography and iconography options with +2000 options in all. furthermore, the developers packed folie with testimonies, customizable panel and media accessibility. ton of shortcodes and pre-designed homepages are also available. they even added page to page communication! folie runs on a clean code and provides tons of documentation. it uses css3 and html5 animations and supports tons of media files. customize backgrounds with parallax too! lastly, folie is a retina ready and pixel perfect product with large adaptability to screens. go crazy with folie! more info / download demo collective collective is a style-savvy theme designed for webmasters with or without previous coding experience to effectively and speedily put together polished, professional-quality websites. also, it is brimming with functionality and visual customization possibilities without having to so much as peek at a single line of code. with collective, showcasing your attractive visual content is easier than ever before. additionally, the amazing set of integrated layout styles, navigation options and collection of shortcodes included within have been honed for the purpose of disseminating your works to the world at large. collective is a portfolio theme at heart. this is why architects, architectural firms and landscaping firms love collective. since it provides a dedicated, uniquely potent portfolio and image gallery customization toolkit built right into a competent and versatile multipurpose theme based on the wpbakery page builder plugin and numerous amazing demo websites and page templates easily customizable to suit your graphical and branding specs. the developers also made collective completely cross-compatible with browsers and devices all over the world. you can now display your content in the most favorable light by just availing this theme. try collective today, and let your audience gaze upon your works! more info / download demo werkstatt werkstatt is an elegant and responsive wordpress creative portfolio website theme. this theme is a pliable platform for crafting amazing websites without any coding. with werkstatt, you can also achieve sophisticated levels of customization with ease. enjoy utter creative freedom while deploying countless features with a few clicks. additionally, you can even install whole demo websites with a single click. fine-tune them at will with the wpbakery page builder, dragging and dropping features and modules. create unique navigational experiences to engage your potential clients and customers. werkstatt is also ideal for professionals, featuring portfolio possibilities bar none. moreover, you can find hundreds of templates and layouts to present your works in custom styles. werkstatt can also be a potent platform for showcasing your professional accomplishments to the world. architects and architectural firms love working with werkstatt because of its robust flexibility. attract new business and engage your existing business overnight with ease. enhanced with seo, werkstatt can make your business famous in no time at all. furthermore, you can make your website relevant with powerful social media integration features. sleek sharing buttons with tons of animations and options are available for you. responsive to the core, you can reach users across all devices effortlessly. check out werkstatt today! more info / download demo bateaux bateaux is a gorgeous and clean wordpress theme for architects. this theme is developed as a simple streamlined platform. additionally, it is for the quick and painless construction of sophisticated modern websites across a vast range of website applications and usage cases. from professionals to personal users, bateaux has been equipped with an impressive set of tools and plugins uniquely customized and developed to empower webmasters to produce breath-taking websites in a matter of minutes. additionally, it offers complete creative and design freedom in the process. bateaux is perfect for freelance architects, landscape architects, interior designers and architectural design studios and firms because it provides them with a powerful set of features for showcasing gorgeous high-resolution content in engaging professional portfolios features parallax visual effects, revolution slider and layer slider animated carousels and slideshows, and the most efficient and lightweight drag and drop layout and page editor on the market today, the unique blueprint page builder. bateaux has amazingly diverse and powerful layout crafting tools within blueprint, with over 350 customization options for you to effectively shape every last nook and cranny of your bateaux website to your heart’s content. showcase your works, with bateaux! more info / download demo avanter show off your work with this easy-to-customize and fully featured wordpress theme. when purchasing this theme, you will receive a detailed help file along with additional features like unlimited color schemes, responsive layout, translation ready structure and much more. this theme also comes with video documentation that will guide through setup and customization. this is the only theme on this collection that is optimized to work with woocommerce to create your own estore. other woocommerce enabled themes you can find on this collection. more info / download demo brando brando is a beautiful and responsive wordpress single page multipurpose website theme. this theme is a powerful platform for the quick and speedy development of a range of websites across all sorts of fields, industries and interests that want a lightweight, stylish visual environment to present their project in. brando is has professionally graphically designed demo websites and page templates for many general and specific applications. also, you can further customize and make your own in graphic detailing, color schemes, fonts, layout styles and choices, element disposition and custom branding, you’re capable to do this with even more features under the hood and through a completely visual, coding-free interface. that is why brando is preferred by architectural firms and professionals around the globe. the stylish single page presentation combines well with the aesthetic sensibilities of architectural professionals, while brando’s powerful native capabilities for handling all sorts of multimedia formats, powered by html5, as well as gorgeous, expansive portfolios with plentiful sorting and navigational options, powered by jquery technologies, allow you to show off your drafts, models and built projects with utmost ease and utter elegance. give brando a go today! more info / download demo which of these wordpress themes for architects you like the most and why? let us know in the comment section below. those who weren’t able to choose the right architect theme for themselves let us know your requirements and we’ll help you from there. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. architectsbusinessflat designfull screenminimalreal estate share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts 30 + feature-rich money-making wordpress themes this collection features 30 feature-rich money-making wordpress themes that will give you the power to… 30 best bitcoin & cryptocurrency wordpress themes 2020 with the immense popularity of digital currencies, like bitcoin, ether, litecoin, bitcoin cash and ripple,… 22 best glamour magazine themes for fashion magazine websites 2020 digital magazines have become so popular that more and more entrepreneurs turn to invest in… best property and real estate wordpress themes to build a competitive website according to the real estate association, 90% of buyers are first drawn to a good-looking… best 30+ multi-concept wordpress themes to make your website stand out whether you are a small business or a large enterprise, a great website that is… top 20 stunning traveling wordpress themes to build a website with the best traveling experience it can come to a surprise, yet the global contribution of the travel and hospitality… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 26 best bootstrap wordpress themes for corporate, portfolio and other creative websites 2020 next post: 22 best interior design wordpress themes that will boost your creativity 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×