skip to content search toggle menu wine blog #7wordwinereview reviews wine racks wine coolers wine aerator what makes the lidl gin so darned popular 10 most popular champagne brands internationally – most are delicious a review of jay z’s ace of spades champagne best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktails at home best whiskey glasses 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best red wine glasses of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best rhubarb gin: brands that will turn even rhubarb haters best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it? 5 best toffee vodka brands that makes you very kissable | 2020 champagne gin non-alcoholic wine vodka close menu home > gin / reviews best non alcoholic gin 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews image published date 19th march 2020 last modified date 19th march 2020 categories gin / reviews author vim 24shares sharetweet the number of people choosing a teetotal lifestyle is growing steadily. the current generation of 18 to 24 year-olds is opting more and more to abstain from drinking alcohol as they follow a cleaner diet and a healthier lifestyle. seasoned drinkers are also changing their habits by regularly taking part in temporary alcohol-free periods, such as the increasingly popular dry january. cutting out the booze used to mean that you only had the choice of drinking orange juice, sodas or plain old water, but that is all changing. manufacturers are seeing an opportunity to create adult soft drinks that can be savoured on a night out. low-alcohol beer, virgin cocktails and non-alcoholic wine are widely available in a variety of venues, and the quality is improving rapidly. alcohol-free gin with gin becoming the alcoholic drink of the moment with an ever-expanding choice of flavours being offered, innovative beverage producers are successfully satisfying both trends at once by delivering an exciting range of alcohol-free gin. whether you are looking for a strong botanical taste, a fruity pink gin alternative or a luxurious alcohol-free drink to enjoy on a special night out, there is something out there for you. 8 best non-alcoholic gins | reviews alcohol free gin and tonic- case of 12, sir james 101, gin taste alcohol free check latest price there’s a delicate mix of flavours with sir james 101 gin and tonic, and these flavours have been balanced well to create an interesting and refreshing beverage. notes of natural juniper give this beverage that distinct taste of gin and it comes through clearly here. when the bottle is first opened, the pleasant aroma is just like a regular gin and tonic. fresh and light in the mouth, there is a delicate bubble that is very enjoyable and seems to be just right. a slight hint of lime and the botanical spiced flavours provide this alcohol-free gin with a rounded taste. sir james 101 gin and tonic surprises those drinkers who try it because it just doesn’t taste like an alcohol-free beverage. thanks to the authentic aroma, true juniper taste and a pleasant fizz, you will believe you’re drinking the alcoholic version. it’s the perfect choice for anyone who wants to enjoy their favourite tipple while cutting back on the booze. sir james 101 is totally free from alcohol at 0.0% abv. each mini bottle holds 250ml which provides the perfect serving of alternative g&t. this drink has been produced to be consumed without adding any mixers – it is ready to go so an ideal option for an outdoor lunch or booze-free barbecue. at 38 kcal per 100 ml, there are 95 calories in each bottle so it’s not going to break the diet. a case holds 12 easy-to-open glass bottles and is fairly inexpensive for a low-alcohol spirit drink. check latest price siegfried wonderleaf alcohol free gin check latest price vegan, sugar free and non-alcoholic, the siegfried wonderleaf is a wholesome and guilt-free beverage. the original version – the siegfreid rheinland dry gin – won a string of awards and remains hugely popular. the producers added an alcohol-free option that offers a similarly high standard of beverage to wow teetotalers. the wonderleaf has citrus flavours and juniper notes combined with herbs and spices. no fewer than eighteen botanicals give this beverage its full flavour – with thyme, ginger, lavender and bitter orange blending to produce a delightful mix, it’s interesting and has depth. an authentic distillation method is used in the production of wonderleaf that ensures the flavours are natural and clear. the result is not an exact gin replica, but a grown-up drink that reminds you of gin. it hits the right spot if gin is your spirit of choice but you are looking for an alcohol-free alternative. wonderleaf can be mixed with tonic and it can be used as a non-alcoholic cocktail base too. at 0.0% abv, it’s completely alcohol free, and with just 2 kcal per 100 ml it is a very low-calorie option. the attractive squat bottle holds 0.5 litre of alternative gin and is a mid-range non-alcoholic gin. it’s not designed to be consumed straight and requires a mixer to be added to make a long drink. check latest price ceder’s crisp non alcoholic spirit check latest price this alternative to gin is distilled using classic and rare botanicals from south africa. buchu, a plant native to south africa, adds flavour to the beverage along with rooibos, also found in the region. the leaves of a rooibos plant are also used in tea. the founders of ceder’s come from south africa and sweden, and their alt-gin combines both of these cultures. with the botanicals hailing from western cape, and the clear waters of sweden being used in the production, there’s a successful mix of continents in each bottle. there are 3 alt-gins offered in the ceder’s range, the classic, the wild and this crisp version. ceder’s crisp has flavours of cucumber, juniper and camomile that subtly come through. it requires a tonic mixer, it’s not designed to be consumed straight. adding a slice of lemon or cucumber enhances the flavours which are just right for a warm summer’s day. the taste is quite subtle with ceder’s crisp, there’s just a reminder of a gin taste without a strong juniper flavour. it’s ideal for someone cutting back on their alcohol intake and searching for something along the lines of a g & t, but not an exact replacement. it’s the kind of beverage that you can happily drink all evening without getting bored of the flavour. with 0.5% vol, there is a tiny amount of booze in the drink so it’s actually a low-alcohol beverage and not alcohol-free. ceder’s crisp is also low on calories with just 6 kcal per 100ml. check latest price caleño non-alcoholic distilled spirit check latest price inspired by the lively colours and music of colombia, caleño is a tropical infusion that combines juniper, spice botanicals and citrus. distilled using steam and steel drums, there is something different about this alternative gin. it’s sophisticated and not as sweet as other non-alcoholic beverages, so drinkers are happy to enjoy this all evening without feeling like they’ve been overloaded with sugar. it cannot be easily mistaken for gin, but the juniper notes give it a familiar taste that gin lovers appreciate. cardamom and inca berries provide a slight fruitiness, and served with soda water, it makes a satisfying long drink. tonic can be added but it can also alter the taste, so a less overpowering mixer is recommended. caleño has a high quality feel about it, ideal for those who like to spoil themselves. the brightly coloured label ensures it gets noticed on the shelf, it’s a hard one to miss. with 0.00% vol, it is a true non-alcoholic gin alternative. the calories are around 10 per 100ml so this drink won’t add inches to the waistline. check latest price fluère alcohol free gin alternative check latest price with its striking bottle and a burst of lime peel in the flavouring, fluère really stands out from the other gin alternatives. it has a bright taste and is full of unique character thanks to the juniper, coriander and lavender combination. using a hydro steam distillation process, the botanicals, spices and fruit oils are extracted individually in a copper pot. this authentic style of production gives this drink an exciting and complex flavour and a distinct after-taste. the name fluère is latin and means ‘flow’, referring to a positive feeling of being in the moment. the drink manages to strike a perfect balance by offering a drink that isn’t too sweet or overpowered with botanicals. the floral taste of juniper that is off-putting for some people is subtle in fluère and as such will appeal to a wider range of drinkers. this beverage can be used in a range of mocktails or it can be served with a mixer to create long, chilled drinks. fluère has a trace of alcohol. at 0.1% vol it is an extremely low alcohol drink with a barely measurable quantity in each serving. the distinctive swirling bottle holds 70 cl and is priced well. check latest price sea arch – the alternative for gin lovers check latest price made in the south-west of england, this marine-based non-alcoholic beverage will appeal to gin lovers. along with juniper, which provides the familiar gin aroma and flavour, other coastal botanicals have been added to create a unique and grown-up taste. sea kelp, cardamom, cucumber, angelica and grapefruit are all blended, and the result has depth and makes for a satisfying tipple. it’s a combination that captures everything that’s great about devon and the british seaside. sea arch doesn’t pretend to be a gin, it doesn’t taste like this alcoholic spirit, but instead it’s been produced to appeal to those who are seeking that kind of flavour. it’s an impressive alternative, not an imitation. designed to be mixed with tonic water, it can be a base for virgin cocktails as well. sea arch is vegan friendly, free from sugar and has been produced gluten-free, so everyone can enjoy this drink. the calories are almost non-existent at less than 10 kcal per 100ml. produced ethically, no single-use plastic is used in the packaging and the sea-foam coloured bottles are tinted with solvent-free paint. the manufacturing team have thought carefully about every aspect of their product. check latest price xachoh blend no. 5 check latest price there are two xachoh (pronounced za-ko) alcohol-free spirits out there; no. 7 and no. 5 and both have been crafted to excite the taste buds. the no. 5 version is a clear beverage with a complex and deep flavour. the authentic distillation process includes herbs and premium spices that have been selected from along the silk route. star anise forms the base of the flavours, so if you’re not a fan of this spice, it may not be to your liking. this beverage is turning heads in the market place, it was a finalist in the 2019 world food innovation awards. there’s an exciting blend of ginger, turmeric, rosemary and barberry notes that are balanced and surprisingly light on the tongue. the producers suggest trying xachoh straight on the rocks, drinking it like you would a liqueur, but it also makes a great long drink when mixed tonic or soda water. there is an exoticness about this beverage – it isn’t a gin replica but a satisfying non-alcoholic spirit for drinkers who are looking for a gin-like flavour. xachoh no. 5 is free from sugar and sweetener and claims to have no calories or carbohydrates so it’s perfect for anyone watching their weight. it’s also plant-based so is vegan friendly and gluten free. the bottle features a huma bird – this bird is always in the air and never lands, according to the stories. to see a huma bird brings good fortune and happiness, or so the tale goes. this symbol captures the inspiration behind xachoh spirits. printed in 24-carat gold, the brand’s logo huma bird gives the bottle a touch of pure luxury and would make a great gift for a tee-total friend. check latest price ginsin strawberry gin alternative check latest price bright, sweet and a great alternative to pink gin, ginsin strawberry adds some non-alcoholic fun to summer afternoons. mix it with tonic water, ice and a whole strawberry and you have a cool, tall drink that is more grown-up than cola or lemonade. strawberry and citrus flavours come through in a refreshing combination, and the botanical blend lends notes of a gin-based drink. this drink is less complex than others on the market but is pleasant and refreshing all the same. this budget-friendly gin alternative is considerably cheaper than all of the other non-alcoholic gins looked at. the bottle is a simple screw-top so it’s a functional purchase rather than one driven by luxury. it’s ideal if you’re catering for a party where many people are driving or cutting down on their alcohol consumption. it is 0% vol and has a high number of calories – at 42kcal per 100 ml it is the most calorific of the beverages compared. the calories come from the sugar content, and it might become too sweet if consumed all evening but it’s just right for one or two servings. check latest price 24shares sharetweet related posts gin what makes the lidl gin so darned popular reviews / wine blog a review of freixenet prosecco gin / reviews / vodka best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide prev post best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide about 12×75.com 12×75 is a light hearted, comical wine blog which focuses on wine news, reviews, food & interviews with leading figures in the world of wine. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. articles about twelve by seventy five ltd (who have nothing to do with 12×75.com) will the real 12×75 please stand up, please stand up investment firm twelve by seventy five is not 12×75 recent posts best non alcoholic gin 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews most shared posts best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it?... being a native californian but living in nyc, i think i&# 28 shares best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktai... cocktail shakers are used for a variety of reasons in a v 35 shares the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s gu... what is it about opening wine that can sometimes be so an 33 shares interviews stephen browett – farr vintners doug rumsam – bordeaux index mark schuringa – ditton wine traders adon kumar – wine searcher judy leissner – grace vineyard peter lunzer – lunzer investments james miles – liv ex mark bedini – fine+rare david elghanayan – vanquish benjamin wallace – the billionaire’s vinegar paula & stacey golding – premier cru fine wine investments henri lurton – chateau brane-cantenac nigel jagger – octavian simon berry – berry bros. & rudd aline baly – chateau coutet adam brett-smith – corney & barrow maximilian riedel – riedel tony laithwaite – laithwaite’s wine pages about us contact us subscribe #7wordwinereview power… sitemap for great london seo services click away. ©2020 back to top search search close