we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk techconsumer techkitchen & home like follow best robot vacuums for every budget no matter your budget, you can come home to a house you feel safe walking barefoot in. share tweet share share best for tight spaces eufy robovac 11s quiet, low-clearance cleaning and suction on all floor types make this ideal for apartment dwellers. $199.99 from amazon best for allergies ecovacs deebot n79s this internet favorite offers powerful suction, great battery life, and a hepa filter for cheap. $249.99 from amazon best if you can splurge irobot roomba i7+ it remembers floor plans, is totally self-sufficient, and can even empty its own dust bin without your help. $799.99 from best buy editors independently select all products and services featured here. if you buy something through our links, we may receive a commission. by leah stodart2020-02-14 19:53:16 utc best deals on robot vacuums: ilife robot vacuum cleaner — $159.99 (save $140) irobot roomba 670 with wifi — $244 (save $85.99) shark ion rv700 robot vacuum with easy scheduling remote — $199 (save $100) aiibot robot vacuum cleaner sweeping machine — $299.99 (save $200) the obsession with robot vacuums is obviously the fact that they make your life 100 times easier, but there's a hard part to the process: picking one. "roomba" and "robot vacuum" are essentially interchangeable terms at this point, but the robot vacuum market ain't what it was in 2005. though we totally back nearly ever roomba model, there's a whole new world of brands that you should be considering. we know, we know: keeping the roomba's models straight is a headache in itself — comparing handfuls of models from competing brands makes sticking with your old, barely-working vac look not so bad. trust us, that's not the move. this criteria can help narrow down your options: some robot vacuums are great at cleaning, but get stuck on carpets or rugs when they have to switch over. if your space includes a multitude of floor types, be on the lookout for this. some robot vacuums navigate between table legs like it's their job, but some bump and stumble like they're wearing a blindfold. if you have a lot of close-together furniture, pay attention to this. some robot vacuums can run for two hours on one charge, but some max out at an hour. if you have a larger home that will need longer cleanings, make sure to consider the battery. what about robot vacuums for pet hair? as a pet owner, you will need a vacuum equipped with brushes designed to pick up hair without getting it tangled. another important aspect for people with pets? the filtration system. vacuuming is bound to kick up dander, dust, and pollen. a good filter captures all of that and makes sure it gets into the vacuum’s dust bin. we should note that some robot models contain hepa filters which can catch even smaller particles, leading to cleaner air and a cleaner floor. this is particularly advantageous if you live with an allergy sufferer. we cover all that and more here. is roomba really the best robot vacuum? in our research, when the roomba goes on sale people go nuts for them. they're certainly the robot vacuums we see people buy most often. but if you're on a budget, then rest assured that there is more to the world of robot vacuums than just roombas. be sure to look out for robot vacuums on sale during black friday, cyber monday, and prime day — it's been a hot sale item for the last few years. okay fine, then what are the best robot vacuums right now? we hate cleaning just as much as you do and have laid out a simple, comprehensive list of all your best options below. remember to hit the blue arrow to expand each card and read more detailed information about each product. budget option image: ilife the good two-hour battery life • can squeeze under low-profile furniture the bad bad with high-pile carpets • worthless mopping capabilities • no room-scanning tech the bottom line the v3s has a simple remote control and outstanding battery life, but it's not good for much past hardwood. ilife v3s hardwood floors will get two hours of powerful suction, but don't expect much for mopping or carpets. run time: 120 minutes app connected: no alexa and google assistant: no $159.99 from amazon robot vacuums get a bad rep for being strictly for people with extra cash. while some models can get grossly expensive (the bottom of this list is yikes), a little research can land you a decent robot vacuum for under $200. the ilife v3s isn't on roomba's level — nor is it on the level of other models considered budget picks, so don't expect the feeling of a professional clean under your feat. that said, the v3 shines with hardwood, and it does a pretty decent job of keeping tile debris-free. (the mopping capabilities are unique, but they're so underdeveloped that they might as well not be there.) owners of high-pile carpets should heavily consider paying the extra $100 for a eufy, ecovavs, or model that has a primary rolling brush. that pet hair ain't going nowhere. one shining feature is the battery life. at 120 minutes on one charge, the v3s could run circles on higher-end models — potentially an option for a large office space where people won't be walking barefoot. best for tight spaces image: eufy the good quiet • works on hard floors and carpet • features infrared obstacle sensors the bad no room-scanning tech the bottom line this quiet robo-vac works on hard floors and carpet and is great for apartment living. eufy robovac 11s quiet, low-clearance cleaning and suction on all floor types make this ideal for apartment dwellers. run time: 100 minutes app connectivity: no alexa and google assistant: no $199.99 from amazon cleaning is annoying as it is — you shouldn't have to plan your vacuuming schedule around someone else's tv time or your next-door neighbor's weird sleeping patterns. vacuuming can finally be quiet with the eufy robovac 11s, which is reportedly one of the quietest bot vacs even on high-suction mode. for less than $300, the eufy 11s packs a serious punch — just don't expect any bells and whistles. the vacuum uses 1300a of suction power and can clean both carpets and hardwood, but its cleaning paths are more aimless bobbling than they are methodical. there's no room scanning tech and scheduling is limited, but infrared sensors do ensure that it's not falling down stairs or running into corners. if you live in a confined space with limited furniture (hey, nyc apartments), this probably won't be a big deal. the "s" actually stands for slim: at a mere 2.8 inches tall, it's also ace for sneaking under lower-sitting furniture. best connected vacuum image: shark the good quiet • user-friendly app • goes between floor types seamlessly the bad doesn't come with a manual remote • meh battery life the bottom line this robot vacuum has a user-friendly app, but cleaning sticklers might not be satisfied. shark ion rv750 shark makes an impressive transition from upright to robot with this wifi-connected vacuum. run time: 70 minutes app connected: yes alexa and google assistant: yes $299.99 from best buy shark has dominated the upright vacuum game for years, so it's no surprise that shark immediately took on the robot vacuum world. (dyson, where you at?) it has its shortcomings, but the shark ion rv750 is a super cheap way to get a robot vacuum with an app. this shark robot vacuum is compatible with amazon alexa and google assistant, which you'll need to utilize, because it doesn't come with a manual remote. run time is only 70 minutes, which is great for smaller homes and apartments. the shark's main weakness is one of the things so many want a robot vacuum for in the first place: hair. while dense messes like spilled cereal or dirt from outside will be picked up no problem, fine pet and human hair seem to be left behind (despite the special brush roll). danny tanner wouldn't be impressed, but newbies and people who just want the bare bones will appreciate they don't have to do the vacuuming themselves. best for allergies image: ecovacs the good two-hour battery life • stellar online reviews • hepa filter the bad no room-scanning tech • wonky cleaning modes the bottom line powerful suction, an app, and alexa compatibility in a bot that could easily go for $500. ecovacs deebot n79s this internet favorite offers powerful suction, great battery life, and a hepa filter for cheap. run time: 120 minutes app connected: yes alexa and google assistant: yes $249.99 from amazon don't let "best for people with allergies" throw you off — the deebot n79s is an excellent choice for any household of any size and any level of debris. it's not easy to find a robo-vac that has strong suction on carpet and hardwood, plus app and voice compatibility, plus long run time for an affordable price point, but that's why ecovacs is an internet favorite. through the app, you can select from three modes like "edge" to go around the corners or "spot" to clean in one spot. because there's no room-mapping technology, the paths are random yet reliable. despite the "s" for slim, it's 3.3 inches tall and not as good as the eufy for low-clearance furniture. vacuuming tends to stir up dust and dander just as much as it cleans, but the ecovacs' hepa filter works to minimize air pollutants and lasts for up to a year. best mid-range roomba image: roomba the good amazing reviews • aeroforce system switches between floor types • has a camera for better navigation the bad pricey for the short battery life the bottom line this roomba performs, deep, planned-out cleanings and should be more expensive than it is. roomba 960 this is not your basic roomba — a camera for navigation and aeroforce lifting cleaning make it the bot to beat. run time: 75 minutes app connected: yes alexa and google assistant: yes $449 from best buy when people think roomba, this is the model they think of. the 960 provides a drool-worthy combination of smart features, methodically-planned cleaning, but has a price that's not too nauseating. cleaning the same spot over and over or knocking into furniture (despite it's high-tech sensors) is the gripe most customers have with robot vacuums. it's almost as if the roomba 960 listened to the complaints and acted on them. the model uses iadapt 2.0 navigation with visual localization to seamlessly navigate between hard floors, carpets, and rugs without getting stuck, with the addition of a camera making it noticeably more nimble in tight spots. similar to the way a human would clean, the 960's methodical cleaning looks for concentrated areas and chooses where to focus — rather than simply following a pattern that may be skipping crucial areas and obvious hairballs. using the app, you can decide whether the roomba cleans a room once or takes a second look. best for pet hair image: neato the good d-shape gets into corners • can draw boundaries on the app • two-hour battery life the bad expensive for being hit-or-miss • loud the bottom line if you're so tired of pet hair that you don't mind a loud buzzing, the botvac d7 is a good bet. neato botvac shedding overload? this ultra-connected vacuum deep cleans and keeps track of what it does — for a price. run time: 120 minutes app connected: yes alexa and google assistant: yes $349.99 from amazon we can't scientifically back this, but we're pretty sure pet hair gets up and crawls into corners when we're not looking. the neato botvac d7 was designed in a "d" shape specifically to squeeze itself perfectly into 90-degree areas where hair seems to collect — and where circular bots may miss. the corner-friendly shape isn't the only feature to tackle shedding: the opening port is shaped specifically to combat hair clogging, and the included combo brush is uniquely designed to snatch up clinging pet hair. it works hard for sure, but with the botvac that hard work doesn't come quietly. instead of bumping around aimlessly, the botvac d7 uses laser mapping to scan rooms and plan out its plan of attack. it can decide on its own how much suction is necessary, but you can draw boundaries on the app to designate a space for more concentrated cleaning or to leave out a corner that can't be vacuumed (like a kid's toy room). best if you can splurge image: roomba the good self-emptying dirt bin • mapping technology remembers 10 floor plans • powerful three-stage suction the bad seriously expensive the bottom line relax *for real* with the i7's self-emptying dust bin and mapping tech that knows where to clean. irobot roomba i7+ it remembers floor plans, is totally self-sufficient, and can even empty its own dust bin without your help. run time: 90 minutes app connected: yes alexa and google assistant: yes $799.99 from best buy feast your eyes, fam: this one's the motherlode. claiming to have 10 times the air power of its 600-level siblings, the roomba i7 gives a whole new meaning to "making life easier." hands down the coolest feature out of all these on the list, the roomba i7 actually empties its own dustbin. room-scanning and mapping technology aren't new to robot vacuums, as most competitors either come with built-in lasers or have the option to purchase virtual barriers. however, roomba raised the stakes with the i7's ability to remember your home's layout (up to 10 floor plans). the iadapt technology remembers where it already cleaned and the spots that need extra attention. anyone who spends this much on a vacuum is undoubtedly picky about cleaning. however, most of the i7's backlash is about price tag and not about the cleaning quality itself. the three-stage cleaning system and dual rubber brushes lift dirt and hair trapped in carpet, and the high-efficiency filter traps 99% of allergies. the i7 can self-empty 30 bins of dust before you even need to touch it. best for large spaces image: the good synchronized sweeping and mopping functions the bad bin may be hard to clean the bottom line the roborock s5 robotic vacuum combines two cleaning functions to provide a thorough clean. roborock s5 robot vacuum and mop get a vacuum and a mop in one and leave the cleaning to your robot friend. run time: 150 minutes app connectivity: yes alexa & google assistant: yes $479.99 from amazon robo vacs aren’t just for small spaces: this roborock robot vacuum and mop combo is a great option for cleaning homes with all kinds of flooring surfaces thanks to its synchronized sweeping and mopping functions. laser range sensors scan every room to create a map of your home, allowing the roborock to clean your space effectively. these also allow the roborock to easily dodge any objects and corners, eliminating the random bumping and startling sounds used by other robot vacuums while they navigate. and with over 100 minutes of battery life, your new house mate promises to leave every space better than it found it. (if only your roommates or kids would do the same.) best for cleaning under furniture image: the good super slim to fit under furniture the bad not compatible with alexa or google assistant the bottom line at less than 3 inches tall, this super slim robot vacuum beats out bulkier models and can easily slip under furniture. eufy boost iq 11s at less than 3 inches tall, this super slim robot vacuum beats out bulkier models and can easily slip under furniture. run time: 100 minutes app connectivity: no alexa & google assistant: no $197.99 from amazon with this robot vacuum, you'll no longer have to rearrange furniture and risk sacrificing your home's carefully arranged #aesthetic in order to get the perfect clean. the eufy boost iq 11s is one of the slimmest and sleekest robot vacuums on the market, but don't let its small size fool you. this device is still packed with the cleaning power you need to combat messy floors and carpets. unlike bulkier models that may have trouble sliding under furniture or in corners, this vacuum is especially made for hard to reach places and measures less than 3 inches tall. the eufy boost iq 11s is one robot vacuum you won’t have to babysit. other vacuums may have trouble when coming into contact with corners, furniture, or other hard-to-reach places, however this device is equipped for any obstacle. with combined slim build and quiet mobility, most customers say you’ll even forget that you own this robot vacuum. (but chances are you won’t forget how clean your floors are.) best for homes with children image: the good three point cleaning system the bad not suitable for high pile carpets the bottom line this vacuum seamlessly transitions from level to level and room to room, making sure that every room is clean even while you're away. eufy boost 1q robo vac 30c equipped with a larger dustbin than other models, this vacuum will easily suck up any mess your child may have left behind. run time: 100 minutes app connectivity: yes alexa & google assistant: yes $249.99 from amazon the eufy boost iq robovac 30c is the perfect robot vacuum for homes that often accumulate larger messes. whether you have small children or large pets, the eufy boost iq is ready to tackle any challenge you throw at it. with a capacity of .6 liters, its large dustbin will eliminate the need to empty the bin halfway through cleaning. easily control the vacuum even when you’re not at home through the eufy home app, perfect for when a surprise visitor decides to drop in and you have to quickly tidy up. drop sense technology keeps the eufy boost iq aware of any obstacles in its path, leaving you to take care of the other items on your list and even have fun with your family. what about robot vacuums for pet hair? we dive deep into the world of robot vacuums that are best suited for pet hair in this story, but we'll give you a taste below. word to the wise: focus on brushes and filters. best robot vacuum for cat owners image: roomba the good has enough power for a thorough carpet clean the bad tends to get a little noisy on carpet boost mode the bottom line you’re guaranteed to get a good clean no matter your floor surface, especially with the high efficiency filter. irobot roomba 980 cleaning time: 120 minutes wifi enabled: yes $519.99 from walmart if you’re looking for a “renaissance” robot, you will definitely want to consider this roomba robotic vacuum — the 980. that’s because no matter what type of floors you have in your house — from carpet to tile to hardwood floors — the 980 will quickly adjust. of course, many consumers are drawn to this particular roomba because it’s manufactured with boost technology, which provides 10 times the air power on carpets and rugs. this powerful suction is paired with a high efficiency filter that captures 99 percent of particles, pollen and allergens floating around your home. just as crucial for pet owners, it also has tangle-free extractors to prevent hair clogs. importantly, the 980 offers wifi capabilities as well as an irobot home app which lets you schedule and set cleaning preferences via your phone or tablet. you can also ask amazon alexa or google assistant to start, stop, or dock the robot (just don’t let all that power go to your head). moreover, you can receive cleaning reports that show exactly where the robot cleaned and how long each area took. and fear not; this roomba won’t accidentally fling itself down stairs and come to a premature end. it has sensors to prevent it from tumbling over a drop-off as well as boundary markers to stop it from going into specific rooms or bumping into fragile objects. best of all, the 980 will smartly return to its dock if it senses it needs to be recharged. once the battery has regained life, the roomba will resume cleaning until the work is complete. because this robot takes pleasure in a job well done! john, an amazon customer, writes: “i purchased the roomba 980 as my 5th robotic vacuum (i've previously owned the roomba 880, neato botvac 65, roomba 655, neato xv-11, and a few more). long story short, this is by far the best robotic vacuum cleaner i've ever used, and i highly recommend it if you can stomach the price. you are getting a robot that's second to none in terms of cleaning power, navigational finesse, and ease-of-maintenance.” best affordable robot image: eufy the good long battery life • large dustbin the bad not great at cleaning in corners the bottom line provides a solid clean without breaking the bank. eufy robovac 11 provides a solid clean without breaking the bank. cleaning time: 100 minutes wifi enabled: no $219.99 from eufy if you’re feeling frugal yet want to hop on the robot vacuum bandwagon, the eufy robovac 11 is a solid option. one of the better performing budget models, the eufy features 11 infrared sensors, a drop sensor, central rolling brush as well as two side brushes and a swivel wheel—all of which help ensure that hair and debris will be picked up. however, we should note that the infrared sensors don’t work as well on dark floors or high carpets. it’s best for flat hardwood floors and low rugs. while it doesn’t have any wifi capability, the eufy does work in conjunction with a remote control. the remote offers six different cleaning settings—single room, manual, max, spot, auto and edge. this variety of cleaning configuration proves to be pretty useful. the auto mode cleans based upon each room’s layout while edge mode primarily focuses on the edges (obviously). spot mode seeks out spots of dirt and debris. if you’re cleaning a carpet, you’ll want to set the eufy to max mode. single room tells the robot to only vacuum the room it’s currently in, before gently returning to its charging station (though, admittedly, it doesn’t always make it back). additionally, despite not having a fancy companion app, the remote does feature a button in which you can schedule future cleanings. finally, we should note that the eufy does get tripped up over even the smallest obstructions. you’ll want to make sure your floors are clear of cords or any wayward objects before turning the ol’ robot on. amazon customer adam skeate writes: “we have 3 short hair dog breeds who shed something horrible. i could vacuum every day but only did it 1-2 times per week as life is just too busy to do this task daily. my socks constantly picked up dog hair and drove me nuts. we had a coating of hair along the baseboards in our home constantly. since putting this champ of a vac to work, i wake up to clean floors! no more socks full of dog hair! it picks up dropped kibble from the floor too. love this trouble free vacuum and would highly suggest it to anyone who has a similar dog situation as i do! the small dust hopper needs to be emptied daily. it's amazing how much dirt this vacuum finds. it cleans under chairs and tables impossible to get to with a regular vacuum. it's cool to watch it work as it pivots around chair and table legs.” best bang for your buck image: amazon the good great mapping technology the bad not the best on carpets • small dustbin the bottom line offers a lot of the bells and whistles found in more expensive models. ecovacs deebot 900/901 offers a lot of the bells and whistles found in more expensive models. cleaning time: 120 minutes wifi enabled: yes $172.03 from best buy a fantastic, mid-priced option, the ecovacs deebot 900/901 is equipped with some impressive technology. for starters, it has an exclusive laser navigation system that scans and maps your entire home (it’s simultaneously cool and creepy). this allows the robot to craft an optimized cleaning path, saving both time and battery power. it also has anti-drop and anti-collision sensors. and most importantly, it has a three-stage cleaning system that works on both carpets and hard floors and picks up all debris in its path. like most wifi-enabled bots, the deebot works with both alexa and google home voice commands. in other words, you can kick back and enjoy some hands-free cleaning. there’s also an accompanying app which let’s you both schedule and customize your cleanings. you can even use the app to construct virtual boundary lines—in case you have a secret room you don’t want your robot seeing. an amazon customer, erin wyckoff, writes: “best purchase i've ever made ... i let it charge for the full 4 hours and then tested it out. it is really cool to see the vacuum move on the application as it cleans. the technology is really amazing. it astounds me that it is able to map the rooms so accurately. i like the feature that allows to to pick if you only want certain rooms cleaned. it is also helpful to note that we have one room i don't have it clean every time. if i don't want it to clean that room i just close the door and it doesn't have any issues or get hung up in that area. i have it set to clean every night. we need it with 2 very hairy australian cattle dogs and 2 cats. ours isn't a large space and it only takes 20 min to clean the entire downstairs. i've not tried to move it to try it upstairs yet but i will. even if it has to remap itself that doesn't take long and it still cleans as it goes. i find i need to empty it after every 1-2 cleanings as it picks up a lot! it is very quiet too. i have it running downstairs as i'm typing this and if i didn't know better i wouldn't know it was cleaning. i was also nervous about if it would get stuck under our dining room table and chairs. it doesn't! it navigates them wonderfully! it may need to take a bit more time under them to find its way out but it manages. it did have an issue with the recliner. note to anyone who purchases: don't have it clean when a recliner footrest is up-ours got stuck underneath and needed to be saved. so far i've not had any issues with it being able to find its way back to the dock either! even my husband had his doubts before we got it but after the first cleaning he fell in love with it. it helps us keep up with the endless pet hair and dirt, without requiring us to haul out a heavy cumbersome vacuum every day. i should also mention how it can be triggered to vacuum even from miles away! i was at work and tested it out and sure enough it started vacuuming when i told it to even though i was 60 miles away. overall, it is worth every penny (even if not on sale) and the application works perfectly and is intuitive.” topics: home, mashable deals, robot-vacuums, tech, vacuums, work/life related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound heads up: all products featured here are selected by mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. if you buy something, mashable may earn an affiliate commission. related roundups tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech perfect your digital marketing skills with these online courses tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) tech get your smart home started with a smart plug — here are our favorites tech best drones with cameras: take aerial photos (and selfies) like a pro related reviews tech samsung galaxy s20 review: a beautiful phone for your tiny hands tech at&t tv is a worthy alternative for cord-cutters, but it's not perfect tech samsung galaxy s20 ultra review: it's powerful. it's beautiful. but do you really need it? tech samsung galaxy buds+ review: better sound and battery, but these are no airpods pro tech motorola razr review: yes, the screen actually made this terrible sound masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.