home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us iphone accessories best mounts and cases for iphone photography iphone accessories best mounts and cases for iphone photography by shashank jain - october 3, 2015 319 0 - advertisment - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp when taking pictures and video with an iphone it is important to have a good mount to stabilize the phone on a tripod and to have good cases and lenses to help take better pictures. taking pictures and videos with a handheld iphone will unavoidably lead to blurry pictures. a good mount will attach easily to a tripod or stand alone and will adjust to fit the phone and angle it for more dramatic photographs. best mounts and cases for iphone photography finding the right mount and proper lenses for the iphone will help create photographs and videos that will be artistic, poignant and special. following are 5 of the best iphone mounts for use in photography. best mounts and cases for iphone photography 1. camrah iphone camera lens kit <br /> this kit is available for less than $25. it includes an “octopus” style tripod, mount with an extra clip, and 3 photo universal photo lenses (fish eye, wide angle and macro combination). it also comes with a microfiber storage bag. the versatile mount can be used with almost any iphone device including phones, ipads and ipods. it can also be used with other smartphones. 2. camkix camera lens set <br /> camkix’s camera set is available for under $35. the kit includes an iphone 5, 5s mount, a tripod, elephoto lenses, an iphone hard case, a velvet bag and a cleaning cloth. the lenses included are fish eye, macro and wide angle. the mini tripod has extendable and retractable legs that make positioning easy. there are no adhesives to attach to the phone with its hard protective case. it is a multi-functional kit for great photography. 3. arbitron global iphone photo lens kit <br /> available for $30, arbitron’s photo lens kit comes with a tripod, phone clip and 3 lenses. the mount is universal and can be used with nearly any smartphone. it is great for taking indoor or outdoor photos and videos. it has a screw mount that fits most mobile phones. it has a rubberized grip so the phone can be twisted and angled for the best shots. it’s flexible and unique design is easy to set up and is compact for travel. the lenses included in the kit are fish eye, macro and a wide angle combination lens. 4. bluboon camera lens kit <br /> available for $30, bluboon’s camera lens kit works with the iphone 6 plus. the kit includes a phone mount, mini aluminum tripod, 12x telescopic photo lens, a hard case for the phone, a velvet storage pouch and a cleaning cloth. the lens is of high quality and will help photographers create the best pictures. 5. yopo iphone camera lens kit <br /> this extensive kit is available for $40. it adapts to the iphone 5, 5s, 6 and 6 plus. the kit includes high quality lenses (fish eye, wide angle and macro combination). just unscrew the macro lens to give wide angle views. the kit comes with hard cases for each of the iphones with which it works. a mini aluminum tripod and travel case the kit easy to use anywhere. it is easy to use and can be carried anywhere to take beautiful pictures and interesting videos. whether as a hobby, a job or the family photographer, taking great photographs and videos using an iphone is easy to master with a good mount. the kits listed above provide many features to take great photographs or videos with an iphone. they are easy to use and fun to experiment with. they help users become great photographers. - advertisement - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp previous articlewhen is the new iphone 7 going to release, date, price, specification & new feature rumours next articlebest font apps for iphone & ipad shashank jain shashank jain, founder of iphone-s, a young and energetic entrepreneur has always been fond of technology. his liking for technology made him go for engineering in computers. during his studies, he learned & worked on different computer languages & os including hbcd, linux, etc. he also has a keen interest in ethical hacking. must read chatroulette apps for android & ios anshi - modified date: march 19, 2020 0 full guide on satisfactory save game location anshi - modified date: march 18, 2020 0 how to use cxbx emulator – way to play on cxbx ashish lavania - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 how cryptocurrency works: a complete guide by hedgespots anshi - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? shashank jain - modified date: march 7, 2020 0 - advertisement - sponsored postshashank jain - march 7, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? it’s perfectly normal to think that apple doesn’t make mistakes when it comes to technology. however, they do. when first... read more uncategorizedshashank jain - march 5, 2020 0 6 email marketing trends that make it a must-use marketing strategy if you are not using email marketing to promote your brand, products or services, you are missing out on... read more must read uncategorizedshashank jain - december 20, 2019 0 essay writing: effective tips that will help you write a great essay writing an essay or a paper can be a... read more appsshashank jain - october 31, 2019 0 top 10 best infrared thermal camera apps thermal infrared images are lens and detector combinations that... read more trending tech 8 amazing yoga and meditation apps for iphone users shashank jain - december 13, 2017 0 top 4 pocket wod free app for ipad/ iphone – crossfit app shashank jain - january 7, 2017 0 top 6 nature & wildlife mobile apps shashank jain - november 20, 2016 0 - advertisement - you might also likerelated recommended to you how to guide how to clean apple earpods earpods have now become the necessity of our daily... shashank jain - november 20, 2019 0 read more apps top 10 best infrared thermal camera apps thermal infrared images are lens and detector combinations that... shashank jain - october 31, 2019 0 read more iphone accessories top 5 accessories every iphone owner must have owning an iphone feels great as the device provides... shashank jain - july 20, 2017 0 read more iphone accessories top 10 best apple iphone 7 plus cases & covers we round up the best iphone 7 plus covers... shashank jain - september 30, 2016 0 read more © copyright 2018 - iphone-s.com factspress