project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure diy party ideas best friend printables share pin free best friend printables for a girls weekend or bachelorette party this article, best friend printables, is sponsored by onlinelabels.com. all opinions are 100% my own. you know you are best friends with someone when you can call them a “bitch” and they regard it as a term of endearment. ha! therefore, i decided to create these free best friend printables, in honor of my very best bitches. i have known my circle of best girlfriends for over 20 years now. we try to go on a girl’s weekend getaway once a year. it’s an escape from motherhood and a time for bonding with the people who know you the best. you can use these gift ideas for your girl’s trip, birthday party, bachelorette party or bridal shower. i made these printables versatile, so that you can use them for different types of party favors as well. they are modern and clean to fit any party theme. i also made some specifically for mini liquor and alcohol bottles and scented candles. watch the video watch a short video of the favors i made. free best friend printable downloads there are three different downloads i made. just click on the link provided to get a free pdf file. if you choose to make your own designs, onlinelabel.com will send you a link for instructions and a custom template for the size you choose when your order ships to you. mini liquor bottle printable for these mini ketel one vodka bottles i used the shop by use feature on onlinelabels.com under bottle labels and chose the emerald labels under liquor bottle labels. this website feature is great because you can find labels for wine bottles and beer bottles as well. the mini liquor bottle labels i made have “cheer’s bitches!” on them. this label would also work great on mini wine bottles. i used the standard white matte; however, i would recommend using the white gloss option. get the free download here: mini liquor bottle printable for 2.125″ x 3″ emerald labels love, relax, thanks printables because not all parties are created equal, i wanted to create some versatile labels as well. in this free download you will find small oval labels that say: love you, bitch relax, bitch thanks, bitch survival kit you can use these for so many different types of party favors. here are some ideas: place them on small candles like i did. put them on lip balm or lip gloss and mirror compacts. stick them on mints and chocolate bars. put them on travel size lotions and hand sanitizer. make your own survival kit party bag with hair ties, bandages, aspirin, lip balm, mints, and other weekend getaway necessities. use them as gift tags for any small gift. the small candles pictured were found in sets of two at hobby lobby. get the free download here: love, relax, thanks printables for 1.5″ x 1.125″ oval labels best friend candle printable last but definitely not least, are these hilarious candle labels. i had the best time designing these and made six different ones to represent different personalities in your inner circle of bff’s. i used the same emerald labels that i used for the liquor bottles. they say: basic bitch: scented candle with hints of predictability and unoriginality boss bitch: scented candle with hints of confidence, influence, and empowerment classy bitch: scented candle with hints of elegance and good manners crazy bitch: scented candle with hints of emotional instability funny bitch: scented candle with hints of hilarity and sarcasm not a bitch: scented candle with hints of no one can ever hate you because you’re too damn sweet i found these candles for a few dollars at tj maxx. they were the perfect size and as a bonus did not have an existing label on them. there were several options to choose from. which candle are you? i bet you already assigned one to your bestie. i, in fact, may be a little bit of all six, ha! get the free download here: best friend candle printable for 2.125″ x 3″ emerald labels which labels do i choose? the labels pictured in this post and video are the 2.125″ x 3″ emerald labels and 1.5″ x 1.125″ oval labels. when choosing labels for your own designs be sure to measure surface area before you buy. onlinlabels.com make it very easy for you to download the free template and walks you through the process with thorough instructions. trouble shooting label printing i must admit that i ran into some trouble aligning my designs, however the online live chat support was quick and easy and helpful. there is also an extensive troubleshooting label printing page that i found very thorough. printer settings will depend on your computer and printer. for me, i found it helpful to save my file into adobe acrobat and print the labels from there, choosing the “print in actual size” option. i hope you like my free best friend printables and find some inspiration here. cheers to an upcoming and memorable celebration with your best bitches! like it? pin it! leave a comment join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable next post: printable lucky banner for st. patrick’s day » reader interactions leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more