toggle navigation features pricing showcase testimonials login get seedprod the #1 coming soon page and maintenance mode plugin for wordpress create beautiful coming soon pages, skyrocket your email list & limit access to your website while under construction create a professional coming soon page in minutes have traffic and leads when your site launches work on your site in private get a jump start at ranking in google go viral with social sharing & referral tracking see pricing risk free 14-day guarantee previous next watch a short walk through video seedprod has helped launch over 3 million websites over the last 6 years. recommended by here are some key features realtime page builder the powerful seedprod builder™ and built-in design controls let you customize virtually any aspect of the page which means you can build an amazing custom coming soon page in minutes. change text, fonts, colors & layout in an instance! see features free 500,000+ background images, 750+ google fonts & 50+ themes included need a jump start on your coming soon page design? choose from over 50+ pre made themes or from over 700,000+ background images from unsplash. see themes easily collect emails so you'll have traffic on day 1! collect emails with your favorite 3rd party email service provider like mailchimp, activecampaign, convertkit and more; or save emails directly to the wordpress database. we also allow you to send an instant email autoresponder so you can start building relationships with your new website visitors. see features limit or allow access to your website password protect parts or the entire website. allow clients special access. include or exclude urls that display the coming soon page. limit access by roles or by ip address. all the granular access controls you need are include. see features social sharing and referral tracking skyrocket your email list by offering an incentive to people who share your site. seedprod makes it easy for people to share your website on popular social networks like facebook and twitter. reward people the more they share creating a viral loop. see features multilingual and gdpr ready translate or change any text that appears in the coming soon page to your native language or simply change the verbiage. also multilingual coming soon pages. in europe and need to be gdpr compliant? we provide tools such as an optin checkbox and an area for a privacy policy to help you achieve compliance. see features what people are saying "want to create a great looking 'coming soon' landing page and grab emails easily? check out seedprod!" chris duckerauthor of #1 bestselling book 'virtual freedom' "search no more and save your time for web design and dev with seedprod coming soon pro" hanan gazit, phd founder & ceo @julooting "seedprod, just added your coming soon plugin to my list of 3 trusty plugins"! taz johnstonwordpress developer why a 'coming soon page' matters showing an unfinished half-built website to the world is the quickest way to ensure your visitors don't return and puts you in danger of screwing up your seo. there is a reason why google advises a coming soon page for every new site. putting up a professional 'coming soon page' is the best way to start creating a buzz for your new website, start collecting emails from interested visitors, build social followings and get a jump start on seo. everyone in the web/marketing space recommends a 'coming soon page'. see what the experts say: neil patel from quicksprout: "everyone has the dream of a 'big launch'. the first step in all of this is getting signups. ideally, you want to create an email list that people interested in your site can join. " matt cutts from the google webmaster team: "i think a coming soon page can be pretty smart ... for users and for search engines." search engine land: "way too often, website owners fail to do pre-launch seo. this results in a poor index of their site. so instead of jumping up in the rankings, their site is ignored by google and the other search engines and buried deep in the results. create a 'coming soon' page and optimize the basics." so you as you can see there is really just no excuse for putting up a 'coming soon' page for your new website. remember you never get a second chance to make a first impression. see features see pricing get the best coming soon page and maintenance mode plugin for wordpress get coming soon page pro the ultimate coming soon page, launch page, under construction page & maintenance mode plugin for wordpress. company about contact affiliates blog support my account docs refund policy our brands wpforms optinmonster monsterinsights wpbeginner rafflepress made with in charleston, sc usa copyright © 2020 seedprod llc terms & conditions | privacy policy | seedprod coupon code