features documentation extensions account buy now search buy now search for: search features documentation extensions account search for: search wordpress search ignores content. searchwp finds it! get searchwp watch video wordpress searchwp e-commerce product details custom field content pdf & document content shortcode output taxonomy terms post title & content instantly improve your keyword search without writing a line of code! searchwp uses your existing search forms and results template instantly improve your keyword search without writing a line of code! searchwp uses your existing search forms and results template searchwp works with many popular plugins too, including: woocommerce logo easy digital downloads logo advanced custom fields pro logo wp job manager logo and more! » most popular features shopping cart icon search e-commerce products & orders searchwp instantly integrates with product search for popular e-commerce plugins such as woocommerce, easy digital downloads, bigcommerce for wordpress, wp e-commerce, and more. custom field data (metadata) index all content stored as wordpress custom fields including content from advanced custom fields, cmb2, and many other popular custom field plugins. pdf & document content index content from many document formats such as pdf, office, plain text, and more. unique visitor insights log searches to find out what your visitors are looking for, and more importantly determine whether they found it. view all features “[searchwp] is easy to use and displays more relevant results than the default wordpress search […] with the click of a button.” wpbeginner (syed balkhi) “this is one plugin that absolutely does not disappoint. i'd go as far as to say it’s one of the best plugins i've used in a long time.” pippin williamson (edd) “users of plugins like advanced custom fields, custom field suite, pods, or any other plugin that allows you to easily customize the edit screens of your post and stores data in custom fields will love searchwp.” wp mayor (jean galea) “compared to other solutions we’ve used, the comparison isn’t even close. searchwp is far and away the best wordpress search plugin we’ve used to date.” wp site care (rami abraham) “your search will get a ten-fold improvement without you doing a single thing. but hey, its features are also customizable. the searchwp settings tab has everything you need […] when you need it.” torque (jay hoffman) “searchwp is elegant, lean, and powerful. i've been using it here for quite a while, and i love how much more relevant my search results are now.” do it with wordpress fix keyword search on your site. no coding required! now you can utilize all of the content that's gone unrecognized by native wordpress keyword search instantly with searchwp get searchwp some frequently asked questions does searchwp support multisite? what kind of license do i need? searchwp will work within a multisite installation, but it does not perform a global (network-wide) search. each site within the network will receive it’s own searchwp installation, and search results will be sandboxed to that site. it is technically possible to switch to each site within a network, perform a search for that site, and then combine all of the results, but that is not supported functionality of searchwp. in order to activate your license for each site within the network, the license must accommodate the total number of sites within your multisite installation. does searchwp support quoted searches (phrases)? yes! searchwp will restrict search results to search phrases that have been wrapped in double quotes. there are some limitations however: find out more about exact match search results. how does the indexer work? (what is tokenizing?) searchwp’s indexer is not a crawler. that is to say it does not operate like many search engines (e.g. google) and it does not load pages of your website to index content. the indexer pulls data directly from the database. for a more detailed explanation please see this kb article https://searchwp.com/docs/kb/indexer-work-tokenizing/ how does pdf & document parsing, indexing, and searching work? there is a slightly in-depth answer to this question, so a kb article has been written: how does pdf parsing and indexing work? how does searchwp display results? searchwp does not directly display search results, it only provides new results for your theme to display. searchwp does not modify your existing search results template in any way. upon activating searchwp, your search results will display in exactly the same way they did before activating searchwp, but searchwp tells wordpress which results to include. to customize your search results you need to edit your theme’s search.php (or create search.php if it does not exist) and you can customize your search results in any way you would customize another template within your theme using the loop. supplemental search engines are covered in depth here: setting up a supplemental search engine: step by step can searchwp index pdfs & documents stored outside the media library? no. searchwp requires that pdfs & documents be uploaded to your wordpress media library. in order for searchwp to index and return results, each entry must have it’s own canonical, wordpress-provided object id. this id is assigned when files are uploaded to the media library, and is essential for searchwp. if you are using a document management plugin that stores uploads outside of the media library of your wordpress install, searchwp will not be able to work with these files. view all faqs company about contact affiliates news privacy policy terms & conditions helpful links documentation knowledge base account pricing features faq releases popular extensions related content woocommerce integration live search metrics redirects shortcodes searchwp, llc copyright © 2020 searchwp, llc pagely