we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk culturesex & relationshipsdating like follow best dating sites for introverts, wallflowers, and anyone hesitant to try online dating freaked out by the idea of meeting people irl? online dating is a great, non-intimidating way to put yourself out there. here's where to start. share tweet share share best for busy people elite singles career-focused individuals take an advanced personality test that really analyzes who will complement you. see details best for message anxiety zoosk panicked about sending messages? use the super send feature and allow zoosk to do it for you. see details best for hook-ups adult friend finder looking to get frisky but scared of putting yourself out there? aff has millions of users around the world, so find a sexting buddy on the other side of the globe and test out the waters. see details editors independently select all products and services featured here. if you buy something through our links, we may receive a commission. by rudie obias and leah stodart2019-10-01 15:44:52 utc not shy? find yourself here by mistake? perhaps you'd like our roundup of the best hookup sites instead. online dating is kind of the best thing that ever happened to introverts. you can now scan for a potential mate without ever leaving the comfort zone that is your couch. of course, eventually you'll need to get up and actually go on a date. but hey, it's better than trying to find a single cutie in dive bar crowd. you can even say we're living through a worldwide introvert revolution. take it from the success of self-proclaimed introvert susan cain's wildly popular book quiet: the power of introverts in a world that can’t stop talking. her book has sold millions of copies worldwide, a tedtalk she gave on the topic has been viewed over 19,294,447 times and counting, and she reportedly gets paid five-figures for a single appearance. review: elitesingles is meant for a more mature crowd, gives curated matches while there's some overlap between being shy and being an introvert, cain spelled out the difference during her 2012 interview in time, saying that "shyness is fear of social judgment and humiliation, and introversion is really preference for less stimulation." you're not scared to go to that party where you don't know anyone, you literally just don't feel like it. it may not be immediately recognizable, some of the most powerful people in the world are introverts: mark zuckerberg, marissa mayer, hillary clinton, and barack obama, to name a few. introverts are taking over and people are noticing — including those who run dating websites. tinder seems to be the go-to for anyone dabbling with online dating, but it's not automatically an easy place to socialize just because it's behind a screen. it's crowded, full of users with unspecified intentions, and has more going on than most introverts feel like dealing with. if endless swiping and next to no filters has you feeling more discouraged than hopeful, it doesn't mean you're too much of an introvert for online dating — maybe all you need is a dating site that gives you more control. if the idea of making conversation in large groups or going up to strangers is your personal idea of hell, there are dating services out there that cater to your specific needs. have a hard time coming up with the perfect first line? there's an app for that. prefer to make meaningful connections without revealing what you look like? we found a few websites with features that can let you do just that too. to help you heighten your odds of finding the person to match your awesomeness, we rounded up 10 of the best dating sites for introverts just like you. best for message anxiety image: pixabay the good easy sign-up process • intuitive and modern design • ease of use the bad you need a subscription to do anything on the site • facebook account required • too many dead and fake accounts the bottom line while zoosk has millions of users on its platform, not many of them are active or in use. the dating site is really easy and convenient to use, but you it will be challenging to actually match and meet with someone special. zoosk panicked about sending messages? use the super send feature and allow zoosk to do it for you. free version: yes one-month: $29.95/month three-months: $19.98/month six-months: $12.49/month see details who's online: with over 30 million app downloads, you can find over 40,000,000 singles worldwide on zoosk. how it works: like a good wingman (or wing woman), zoosk starts to understand you more and more as time goes on to help introduce you to the person you can spend the night or rest of your life with. the site's unique algorithm recognizes your preferences through the actions you take. the more you interact with the site, the better it can match you with your ideal human. features for introverts: the smartpick can really be your best friend, serving as the best icebreaker. if both you and someone you're interested in both vote "yes" on each other's profiles, the smartpick feature will let you know the good news by email and shoot you a message in your zoosk inbox. another good option is the super send feature, which could help eliminate the scary feeling from being the one to make the first move. choose a message to break the ice, then allow zoosk to blast it out for you using super send. if someone indicates they're interested by writing back, then you get to view each other's profiles. what it'll cost you: a one-month subscription will run you $29.95, three months costs $19.98 per month, and six months is just $12.49 per month. best for hook-ups image: pixabay the good over 25 million users • lgbtq friendly • very sex positive the bad bad and outdated design • expensive • the dating site looks like an ad for porn the bottom line although the site has a lot of fake profiles, it’s one of the best dating sites if you’re looking for sex and hook-ups with individuals looking for the same thing. adult friend finder looking to get frisky but scared of putting yourself out there? aff has millions of users around the world, so find a sexting buddy on the other side of the globe and test out the waters. free version: yes one month of gold: $30/month three months of gold: $20/month twelve months of gold: $15/month see details who's online: adult friend finder has more than 25 million users from all sorts of countries from all around the world, including united states, canada, and australia. the dating site has also been translated into various languages, such as chinese, dutch, and portuguese. to be very blunt, adult friend finder is a dating site for people who are looking for "no strings attached" and casual sex. how it works: after filling out a surprisingly in-depth questionnaire, which includes questions about your gender, sexual orientation, relationship status and who you’re looking to meet, users then go to the main page where they can search for people who are also looking for relationships, casual sex, or just straight up hookups. features for introverts: since aff has millions upon millions of users from around the world, there’s always a large group of people constantly using it 24 hours a day. no matter your kinks or sexual orientation and no matter the time of day or night, there’s someone on the dating site waiting for you to share your preferences, sexual desires, and maybe hook-up with you too. it’s like if new york city and las vegas had a baby. adult friend finder is the dating site that never sleeps and whatever happens on the site, stays on the site. what it'll cost you: adult friend finder is not cheap. while there is a free version for sign-ups, you really need a premium account to take advantage of everything the dating site has to offer, such as message boards, private chats, and even videos. if you want to message or chat with someone, you’ll have to pay up with gold member packages starting at $30/month. however, once you’re inside, you can enjoy all the nastiest and kinkiest adult content you can handle. you might even match with someone for a casual affair. best for busy people image: pexels the good comprehensive profiles • users are working professionals • verification and privacy are taken seriously the bad it might take a long time to complete questionnaire • you need a premium account to get anything out of the dating site • no search feature the bottom line elite singles sounds fancy, but is simply one of the only dating sites that caters to singles with degrees and busy careers. elite singles career-focused individuals take an advanced personality test that really analyzes who will complement you. free version: yes three-months: $62.95/month six-months: $44.95/month twelve-months: $31.95/month see details who's online: elite singles says its users are mainly educated, relatively affluent, adults between the ages of 30 and 55 who are in search of long-term commitment. the site breakdown by gender works out to be 56 percent women and 44 percent men. how it works: in order to find like-minded matches, elite singles has you take an in-depth personality test. the test will evaluate you on your level of openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism. based on the results, the smart profiling can send you 3 to 7 compatible matches every day. how it helps introverts: since the personality test can identify the traits that really make you who you are, the dating service can match you with exactly the type of personality you'd be most compatible with. what it'll cost you: it's free to sign up, but if you want to enjoy any of the most important features like daily matches, it'll cost you $62.95 per month for 3-months, or $44.95 per month for 6 months. an annual membership will run you $31.95 per month. each membership requires that you pay the entire duration upfront. best for anonymous browsing image: pexels the good users are serious about finding long-term relationships • it’s the first online dating site • no fake accounts the bad the verification waiting period is annoying • it might take a long time to complete questionnaire • expensive the bottom line match is the gold standard for online dating and meeting new people. there are no gimmicks, just quality matches. match incognito mode lets you browse anonymously and view profiles without the other person knowing. free version: yes three-months: $23.99/month six-months: $20.99/month twelve-months: $19.99/month see details who's online: find out yourself by clicking here. in short, this site is probably filled with your neighbors, old coworkers, new coworkers, and more. match is pretty popular with members with diverse backgrounds who share a few common goals: to meet other singles, find dates, form romantic relationships, and meet life partners. how it works: match is pretty much an open dating service. there's absolutely no limit to who you connect with, or how often. after you set your dating criteria, the site will display possible matches. you can tweak or fine-tune the results as you wish. features for introverts: large crowds can be scary, but match regularly hosts meet-up events where you can create genuine relationships over time. if you enjoy browsing anonymously, there's a feature called incognito mode that allows you to view profiles without the other person knowing. what it'll cost you: you can join for free but a year long premium membership will run you $19.99 per month. for half that time you can pay $20.99 every 30 days or for an even shorter commitment period you can go with the 3 month membership for $23.99 per month. best for shy men image: pexels the good large user base • women make the first move • no unsolicited messages the bad connections only last for 24 hours • you might get ghosted • too similar to tinder the bottom line women always make the first move and decide whether or not to chat or take connection further. bumble shy guys new to online dating will dig how bumble requires women to make the first move. free version: yes one-week: $8.99/week one-month: $24.99/month three-months: $16.66/month six-months: $13.33/month see details for some archaic reason, men are still expected to make the first move in man/woman interactions. bumble said screw that — the women should decide who they get messages from. if you're shy about sending the first message, this is an easy way to tell if the girl likes you before you say anything to her. (if you aren't hetero, either person can kick-off the conversation. either way, you can ditch the lecherous messages from toxic dudes.) similar to tinder, this app will show you random profiles of users so you can swipe left if you aren't interested or right to like them. if and when you both "like" one another: voilà, its a match. what happens next depends entirely on your sexual orientation. if you get a message from someone you're not interested in, the connection disappears forever after 24 hours, so you don't have to be worried about the same person harassing you for six months straight. the best part? most features are free. premium features like bumble boost, which lets you see everyone who has right-swiped you, extend your matches by another 24 hours, and allows you to rematch with expired connections. the premium features starts at $8.99 per week. best for something serious image: pexels the good no fake accounts • focused online dating experience • users are serious about finding someone special the bad expensive • no searching • sign up can be long and tedious the bottom line it has a great success rate with pairing singles together to become long-term and committed couples — not to mention thousands of marriages. eharmony relyid helps verify the information provided by other members, like their name, city, and age so you can avoid being catfished. free version: yes three-months: $54.95/month six-months: $36.95/month twelve-months: $22.95/month see details who's online: eharmony's membership pool consists of singles who reside in all 50 u.s. states and more than 200 countries worldwide. how it works: eharmony uses a compatibility matching system that pairs relationship hopefuls based on 29 different dimensions of compatibility. to get started, just fill out the relationship questionnaire, and once you're confirmed as legit, the website will start sending you your compatible matches. how it helps introverts: eharmony has a feature called relyid that helps verify the information provided by other members, like their name, city, and age. you know what that means? no catfishing. also, your profile is only visible to the people who are a good match for you, so the experience can help to narrow your potentials down to only those who are actually a good fit. there's also guided communication, a four-step program of communication with your matches. basically, its a series of questions that help to break the ice. if that doesn't work, the site also offers free dating advice at love and harmony. what it'll cost you: a year long subscriptions runs for $22.95 per month, but one of the most popular choices is the 6-month option for $36.95 per month. not ready for a long commitment just yet? there's a 3-month subscription you can choose for only $54.95 per month. best for planning dates irl image: pixabay the good quality matches over quantity • no endlessly swiping • spend time with matches outside of the app the bad limited number of potential matches per day • small user base • you might see the same profiles again and again the bottom line cmb wants you to meet people and spend your time together in the real world and not the digital one. coffee meets bagel skip the endless browsing altogether: coffee meets bagel sends curated matches and encourages meeting up. free version: yes one-month: $34.99/month three-months: $24.99/month six-months: $19.99/month twelve-months: $14.99/month see details who's online: coffee meets bagel is designed for busy singles who are looking to build real connections with little to no effort. how it works: cmb uses an algorithm that takes into consideration basic info like your location, age, ethnicity, height, and religion, plus more nuanced criteria like your social network and interests to pair you with potential matches. you'll need a facebook account to join. features for introverts: instead of swiping, browsing, poking, and messaging your way into someone's inbox only to never hear back, this app will send you a potential match every day at noon. men receive curated matches based on the algorithm and women will only be presented with potential matches (called bagels) that have already expressed interest. once there's a connection, the app sends you to a private chat room with icebreaker questions to get things started. cmb also follows up to encourage your first date. lgbtq members are sent preselected potential matches everyday also. what it'll cost you: for a 1-month membership, you'll pay $34.99. for 3-month renewals the cost is $24.99/month and for 6-month renewals you'll pay $19.99/month. if you want to just go ahead and sign up for the whole year, you'll be charged $14.99 per month. best free dating app image: pixabay the good it’s mostly free • you can find any type of relationship • great and intuitive design the bad there are a lot of fake accounts • you have to pay for useful features • it’s additive the bottom line a super popular dating site that has a great free option, inclusive vibes, and a large database of users. okcupid an incognito mode lets you remain invisible to everyone on the site unless you like or message them. free version: yes a-list - one-month: $9.95/month a-list - three-months: $7.95/month a-list - six-months: $4.95/month see details who's online: millions have found dating success on okcupid and the app sees over 1 million installs per week. in fact, you can see an updated number of people who are using the site right now by clicking here. how it works: algorithms, formulas, heuristics — the site uses a lot of crazy math stuff to help people find their matches faster. you'll see a percentage rating on each profile you encounter, letting you know the odds of success. features for introverts: you can really be yourself on okcupid. whether you're looking for the relationship of your dreams, a one-night stand, or a sham marriage (seriously, we’re not judging), okcupid doesn't care unless you're being a jerk about it. on okcupid, you’re more than just a photo, you can share stories, your passions, and pretty much anything else you want and feel totally at home. what it'll cost you: a basic account is always free. but there are some paid extras you can enjoy if you want a more premium experience. if you pay for the a-list membership, you can cut out the ads, you get more search options like body type and attractiveness, you can see everyone who likes you, and you can see who reads your messages, among other useful things. there's an incognito mode that lets you be invisible to everyone on the site unless you like or message them. basic a-list starts around $9.95 for 1 month and goes down to $4.95 per month for 6 months. best for people who believe in love at first sight image: pixabay the good free • alternative to approach randoms in public the bad not many filters the bottom line if you hate introducing yourself to strangers, happn uses your current location to match you with people nearby. happn too scared to approach cuties you see in passing? happn makes it easier by introducing strangers who are within walking distance. free version: yes see details who's online: since its debut in 2014, happn has been challenging tinder directly and has the same young swiping app crowd you'd expect. as of summer 2018, it claimed to have 6.5 million monthly users (for comparison, tinder boasts around 50 million monthly users.) how it works: believing in love at first sight is kind of hard when you're too nervous to introduce yourself at first sight. happn uses your current location to alert you of other users nearby, so if you're too scared to talk to a random cutie on the train, happn can help you match with them and tip you off to other singles who are nearby. it's like having a wingman (minus the bad jokes). features for introverts: while tinder (and most other dating apps) use your location to some extent, most still require some effort to actually see the person irl. perhaps there's someone you pass on your walk every morning who has caught your eye, but you've accepted the fact that you'll never meet them — because there's no way in hell you're going to start a conversation. if your unidentified crush also has happn, they'd essentially get a notification that you exist. if they're interested too, happn will match you and the conversation can start from there. there's also an interactive map that shows everyone you've crossed paths with in the last seven days. the "are you single?" conversation is easily one of the most awkward parts of going up to a hottie in a crowd, but happn helps to detect who's looking and who's not (if they have the app, of course). askmen's review said it best: "happn formulates a happy medium between algorithmic online dating and chance encounters." what it'll cost you: nothing — it's free. best for not leaving the house image: pexels the good can test out bluetooth sex toys • more personal than porn • live streams and private shows the bad no way to match with someone • token system seems like a hassle the bottom line cams.com's immersive virtual features let you gain flirting experience without the pressure of a date. cams.com no energy to interact irl? this cams site's hd streams and bluetooth sex toys can help. 100 tokens: $12 250 tokens: $26 500 tokens: $50 1,000 tokens: $99 see details who's online: 14,000 female, male, and trans models (with new ones added every day) make experimenting outside of your usual "type" easy. how it works: sometimes you just don't have the energy to interact irl at all. sexting will seem like the next move, but there's a more immersive option. contrary to popular belief, not all cams sites are simply bigger versions of the obnoxious ads about milfs that appear on porn sites. from teledildonics to customization tools to nearly limitless hd video chat, cams.com is the site to visit when porn is boring but a real date is too much work. features for introverts: if you're introverted in the dating world because you haven't experienced the dating world, cams.com is a great way to learn some new moves, naturalize your body language, or simply be around someone you're attracted to without the pressure of a date. despite the fact that there's (obviously) a screen between you and the other person, cams.com goes above and beyond to ensure that things still get hot and heavy. the virtual tension can be cranked up another notch with teledildonics: a fancy word for bluetooth sex toys that make physical pleasure over distance possible. order a toy through lovesense or ohmibod, download the app, and let the model control the vibrations almost as if you were there. what it'll cost you: instead of paying for a monthly membership, you have to buy tokens to do much of anything — but for 1,000 tokens, $99 can last you quite a while. the token currency allows you to tip models, buy sex toys directly from the site, and pay for private shows. best for privacy image: pixabay the good match anonymously • get to know someone before meeting • made for shy people and introverts the bad not many users • easy to be catfished the bottom line if you're shy, then anomo is built for you. the dating app is a great way to meet people and get to know them slowly before taking the next steps in building a real relationship. anomo match anonymously and get to know people with icebreaker questions — you don't even need to upload a profile picture. free version: yes see details who's online: people who really want to engage in rich social interactions based on their location and common experiences, rather than relying on the physical or lengthy questionnaires. introverts looking for friendships, dating, and entertainment. how it works: there are a bunch of different ways you can get to know someone on anomo. you can try one of the ice breakers games, post something interesting, or engage in the fun conversations. you pretty much chat with who you want that's around you. features for introverts: anomo is 100% about keeping things casual, at least at first, giving you time to feel out the situation. unlike other dating apps out there, anomo starts you off with just an avatar. in fact, all of your personal information is locked from the start, so only you can see it. you can play games with other hopefuls and over time, the app matches you with people who share similar interests. over time, as you get to know someone better, you can decide to reveal yourself. what it'll cost you: absolutely nothing. the app is totally free. more online dating content: best dating sites and apps for finding a hookup best dating sites: find a connection by this weekend best dating sites for geeks and nerds review: adultfriendfinder is porntastic and inclusive review: match is the site for finding something serious review: zoosk is super easy to use and has a great design review: okcupid is fun, hip, and less lame than other sites topics: dating, introverts, lifestyle, mashable deals, online dating, sex-relationships, work/life image: pexels related roundups culture psa for side sleepers: your pillow is probably too flat. these are better. culture best indoor plants for people who suck at taking care of plants culture the best stainless steel cookware sets that you can get on amazon culture 7 (mostly) online guitar courses that are actually worth your time culture 7 of the most comfortable travel shoes for women related reviews culture what reviewers and bloggers have to say about the philips turbostar digital air fryer culture okcupid review 2019: a hip dating site that's way less lame than the competition lifestyle eharmony review: a long, annoying sign-up process makes for a long, happy marriage lifestyle match is a user-friendly dating site that's serious, but not too serious lifestyle ihookup review: a no-frills hookup app that's a mix of sexy and sketchy heads up: all products featured here are selected by mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. if you buy something, mashable may earn an affiliate commission. related roundups culture psa for side sleepers: your pillow is probably too flat. these are better. culture best indoor plants for people who suck at taking care of plants culture the best stainless steel cookware sets that you can get on amazon culture 7 (mostly) online guitar courses that are actually worth your time culture 7 of the most comfortable travel shoes for women related reviews culture what reviewers and bloggers have to say about the philips turbostar digital air fryer culture okcupid review 2019: a hip dating site that's way less lame than the competition lifestyle eharmony review: a long, annoying sign-up process makes for a long, happy marriage lifestyle match is a user-friendly dating site that's serious, but not too serious lifestyle ihookup review: a no-frills hookup app that's a mix of sexy and sketchy masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.