about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ best vegan lasagna 116 comments jump to recipe i used to be skeptical of vegan lasagna—could it really be that good? this recipe is proof that yes, it really can. this vegan lasagna tastes as good as it looks. my husband, who has a major weakness for creamy pastas, also found the concept of a cheese-less lasagna questionable. i figured this recipe would convince him, so i brought some home and put it in the fridge. i soon found the man in the kitchen, going back for seconds. then thirds. if you’ve been paying very close attention to my recipe substitution notes over the years, you may have tried this technique already. it’s based on the vegan variation of the cheesy roasted eggplant lasagna in my cookbook, love real food (page 163). i shared the concept in my classic vegetarian lasagna recipe, too. today, i wanted to show you the results with photographic proof. if you’re in the mood for a dairy-free alternative to traditional cheesy lasagna, this recipe is for you. how to make the best vegan lasagna you’ll find the full recipe below, but here’s why this recipe works: 1) cashew cream in lieu of dairy we’re replacing traditional mozzarella and ricotta with cashew-based sour cream. it’s easy to whip up in a blender. i’m still amazed by how well this “sour cream” concoction replaces all kinds of creamy, dairy-based cheeses and sauces. some other recipes suggest blended tofu for this component, but cashew cream tastes much, much better. one caveat—if you don’t have a heavy-duty blender, you’ll need to soak your cashews for a few hours before blending. if you’re blessed with a vitamix (affiliate link) or similarly powerful blender, you don’t need to bother with the soaking step. 2) vegetables for flavor and nutrition we’re also building flavor by sautéing lots of vegetables and spinach. i used onion, carrots and mushrooms, but feel free to use whichever vegetables you have on hand (zucchini, bell pepper, or even butternut squash would work). mushrooms are particularly good because they offer some umami depth to this meatless lasagna. 3) garnish with more cashew cream, vegan parmesan and fresh basil we’ll layer up and bake this lasagna just like a regular lasagna. once it’s out of the oven, we’ll drizzle a little leftover cashew cream on top. the cashew cream on the inside condenses as it bakes, so this adds a nice touch of irresistible creaminess. lastly, we’ll sprinkle on some vegan parmesan, which is made with hemp seeds, nutritional yeast, and garlic and onion powder. it’s the perfect salty flavor booster. add some fresh basil leaves if you have them! wondering what to serve with your lasagna? i’d pair it with roasted brussels sprouts or broccoli, a simple side salad with balsamic dressing, or my greek lentil salad for some additional protein. if you’re craving more hearty vegan meals, here are a few delicious options: pasta e fagioli (italian pasta and beans) or classic minestrone soup hearty spaghetti with lentils & marinara sauce ratatouille mujadara (lentils and rice with caramelized onions) or, browse all of my vegan recipes here. print best vegan lasagna author: cookie and kate prep time: 35 minutes cook time: 30 minutes total time: 1 hour 5 minutes yield: 9 servings 1x category: main dish method: stovetop and baked cuisine: italian ★★★★★ 5 from 51 reviews who knew vegan lasagna could be so delicious? this dairy-free lasagna recipe is easy to make with simple ingredients and tastes amazing. it’s the best! recipe yields 8 servings. scale 1x2x3x ingredients cashew cream 2 cups raw cashews, soaked for at least 4 hours if you do not have a high-powered blender 1 cup water 2 tablespoons lemon juice 2 teaspoons apple cider vinegar ¾ teaspoon fine sea salt ½ teaspoon dijon mustard vegetables 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1 medium-to-large yellow onion, chopped 2 large or 3 medium carrots, chopped (about 1 cup) 8 ounces baby bella mushrooms, cleaned and chopped ½ teaspoon fine sea salt, to taste freshly ground black pepper, to taste 5 to 6 ounces baby spinach, roughly chopped 2 cloves garlic, pressed or minced everything else 2 ½ cups marinara sauce, homemade* or store-bought (i used rao’s) 9 no-boil lasagna noodles** suggested garnishes: vegan parmesan (or a light sprinkle of nutritional yeast) and fresh basil instructions preheat the oven to 425 degrees fahrenheit. if you soaked your cashews, drain and rinse them until the water runs clear. in a blender, combine the cashews, water, lemon juice, vinegar, salt, and mustard. blend until the mixture is smooth and creamy, stopping to scrape down the sides as necessary. if you’re having trouble blending the mixture, slowly blend in up to ½ cup additional water, using only as much as necessary. set aside. then, we’ll prepare the vegetables: in a large skillet over medium heat, warm the olive oil. once shimmering, add the onion, carrots, mushrooms, salt and several twists of black pepper. cook, stirring every couple of minutes, until most of the moisture is gone and the vegetables are tender and turning golden on the edges, about 8 to 10 minutes. add another splash of olive oil if necessary to prevent them from sticking to the bottom of the pan. add a few large handfuls of spinach to the skillet. cook, stirring frequently, until the spinach has wilted. repeat with remaining spinach and cook until all of the spinach has wilted, about 3 minutes. add the garlic and cook until fragrant, stirring constantly, about 30 seconds. remove the skillet from the heat and season to taste with salt and pepper. spread ¾ cup tomato sauce evenly over the bottom of a 9” by 9” baking dish. layer 3 lasagna noodles on top (snap off their ends to fit, and/or overlap their edges as necessary). spread 1 cup of the cashew cream evenly over the noodles. top with half of the veggies. top with ¾ cup tomato sauce. top with 3 more noodles, followed by another 1 cup cashew cream (save the leftover cream). then add the remaining veggies. top with 3 more noodles, then spread ¾ cup tomato sauce over the top to evenly cover the noodles. wrap a sheet of parchment paper or aluminum foil around the top of the lasagna, making sure it’s taut so it doesn’t touch the top. bake, covered, for 25 minutes, then remove the cover, rotate the pan by 180° and continue cooking for about 5 to 10 more minutes, until it’s steaming and lightly bubbling at the corners. remove the pan from the oven and let the lasagna cool for 15 to 20 minutes, so it has time to set and cool down to a reasonable temperature. drizzle leftover cashew cream on top (if it’s too thick to drizzle, thin it out with a small amount of water first). sprinkle vegan parmesan and fresh basil on top, if using, then slice and serve. notes *homemade marinara sauce note: you’ll need to double my marinara recipe to yield enough for this recipe, and then you’ll have extra. if you don’t think you’ll use it up within a few days, you can freeze it for later. **lasagna noodle recommendations: i like to use delallo’s whole wheat lasagna noodles (affiliate link) and whole foods’ 365 no-boil lasagna noodles. see below for gluten-free suggestions. make it gluten free: substitute gluten-free lasagna noodles. choose no-boil (oven ready) noodles if possible; if not, cook them according to package directions. (fair warning, i tried using deboles brand of no-bake lasagna noodles and they weren’t quite done cooking in the time specified here. reheated leftovers were ok, though.) change it up: feel free to play around with the vegetables here. you’ll want to use about 3 cups chopped veggies total (excluding the onion). butternut squash might be nice, or try one zucchini and one red bell pepper in place of the mushrooms. storage suggestions: leftovers will keep well in the refrigerator, covered, for about 4 days. gently reheat individual servings in the microwave or oven as needed. or, freeze it for later—it’s generally easier to reheat single servings than to defrost a big block of lasagna! ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes best vegetable lasagna classic minestrone soup amazing vegan mac and cheese share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories christmas, dairy free, egg free, fall, italian, main dishes, pack for lunch, recipes, soy free, spring, summer, thanksgiving, vegan, winter ▸ ingredients carrots, cashews, mushrooms, spinach ↢ newer how to roast garlic older ↣ game day recipes + what to cook this february by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) hayley february 6, 2020 i’m super excited to see this kate, as i can’t eat dairy. i also am allergic to cashews, but i’ve had good luck making tofu ricotta for italian style dishes. so i think i will try that here! reply hannah february 6, 2020 i can’t wait to try this! lasagna is my husband’s favorite food. we just tried a lasagna recipe with vegan beefy crumbles and violife mozzarella last week and it was okay, but not great. your recipes are always delicious, though. we have at least 7 on our regular rotation. ★★★★★ reply pamela february 6, 2020 this looks like one i’d like to try. do you think it would work using zucchini as the noodles? we can’t eat any grains, so even gluten free pasta doesn’t really work. i have done it with cheese lasagne and it kind of worked, but was a little runny. any other ideas? thank you, pamela reply kate february 10, 2020 hi pamela, i’m not a lover of zucchini noddles, sorry. i’m not sure if this would work. have you tricked a chickpea or lentil based pasta yet? reply roxanne lorentzen february 6, 2020 bravo, kate!!!!!‍♀️ this recipe sounds marvelous i can’t wait to cook it and eat it!! i’m planning to incorporate artichoke hearts; and, perhaps purée the vegetable mixture. i will let you know when i report back my results. i am such a big cheese lover, it will be hard to resist using cheese, but i’m going to try it your way first!!‍♀️ i am an advanced experimental home cook. i’m trying to cook with less meat, poultry and cheese these days for health reasons. thank you for your wonderful inspiration!!!!! reply kate february 12, 2020 you’re welcome, roxanne! i’m happy you are so excited about his recipe. reply sherri february 6, 2020 is there any alternative for the cashews? one of my kids is allergic to tree nuts and someone else in the family is allergic to dairy. reply kate february 10, 2020 hi sherri! i wish i had something right now, but i don’t unfortunately. in some other applications, sunflower seeds have worked. but i’m not sure if that would work here. reply pm february 6, 2020 hello kate! there are a million different depths to the 9 x 9″ square pans out there. what depth pan do you recommend for dishes like your lasagna? can’t wait to get the pan and make this dish, btw! reply kate february 10, 2020 hi pm! this is the pan i’m using: https://www.crateandbarrel.com/everyday-square-baking-dish reply b february 6, 2020 noodles are not vegan reply jd february 6, 2020 ingredients organic whole wheat semolina, water. sounds vegan to me. fresh pasta, however, is often made with eggs. reply kate february 12, 2020 hi b, it actually depends on the brand you buy. you can find noodles made without eggs and other animal products. reply penney march 1, 2020 yes they are. no egg no milk !! why would you say there not? reply jenn february 6, 2020 excited to try this! we love the cashew alfredo sauce in your cookbook, so think this will be delicious! reply kate february 12, 2020 be sure to let me know what you think, jenn! reply martutz february 7, 2020 gotta try this lasagna! i’m also struggling for a healthier me, i’ve even start running with sportme and i can say i’m on the right track now. nutrition is an important part of my losing weight plan, and your blog posts are a true inspiration! ★★★★★ reply kate february 10, 2020 i hope you enjoy it! reply lindsey february 7, 2020 any thoughts on how to make this into a slow cooker or instant pot recipe? reply kate february 10, 2020 sorry, that would require two separate recipes! i really like this with the oven. reply bradley february 11, 2020 we made this tonight and it’s one of the tastiest dishes i’ve ever cooked!! literally better than any meat or vegetarian lasagna i’ve tried before. we make your dishes every week and they never cease to amaze us. cheers! ★★★★★ reply bethan february 7, 2020 cannot wait to try this, kate! your artichoke and ricotta lasagna was a household favourite before i went vegan (especially cold), so i’m so delighted to see another lasagna recipe that’s dairy/egg-free. will be trying this soon – probably with a ton of artichokes! – and will give fuller feedback then. ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 thank you, bethan! reply eleisha february 8, 2020 kate! you’ve done it again! can’t wait to have left overs tomorrow :-) ★★★★★ reply tracy february 8, 2020 this was the bomb! my husband and i made this last night and it was delish. thanks katie. this will become a regular in our meal rotation. ps. there is always so much of the ‘made from scratch’ creams i whip up in the vitamix that i am unable to get out of the vitamix – under the blade, on the sides… is there a secret to not having to waste so much? pps. have you tried the barilla protein + plant based pasta? we love it :) ★★★★★ reply kate february 10, 2020 hi tracy! i just use a spatula and get most of it. maybe try a smaller one :) reply chloe february 8, 2020 cookie and kate is literally the best, i’m an avid reader of yours and i just love the recipes on here. gonna be trying out this one tonight! keep them treats coming. it helped my nutrition be the best it has ever been in my entire life! hope it helps some of you out there? ★★★★★ reply kate february 10, 2020 i’m happy you are loving the blog, chloe! reply kim february 8, 2020 is there any other nut that can be used in place of cashews to make the cream? i’m unable to eat cashews and so many wonderful vegan recipes rely on them. before i start my own experimentation with this i just wondered if you’ve ever tried and had any luck perhaps using almonds, walnuts or any other nut? so bummed i can’t have cashews or coconut! ★★★★★ reply kate february 10, 2020 hi kim, i’m sorry i don’t have a great answer for you! some other applications or recipes can use sunflower seeds, but i’m not sure about this here. reply kelly february 8, 2020 it would be so helpful if people didn’t rate recipes they haven’t tried. i’m looking forward to trying this recipe, too, but if i rate it and haven’t tried it, that is a bit mis-leading. thanks for the great recipes, kate! reply anne february 8, 2020 hi kate, i was hesitant to try a vegan lasagna but when i saw your recipe, i knew it would be good. i followed it exactly including letting it cool down. however it pretty much fell apart when serving. what is the trick to keeping it together like your picture? still tasted awesome regardless. thx. anne ★★★★★ reply kate february 10, 2020 hi anne! i’m sorry to hear that. what type of noodle did you use? did it still seem a little wet, like your vegetables could have cooked longer stovetop? reply patricia february 8, 2020 this recipe is shockingly good! i had no idea what to expect from it, but so many of your recipes have turned out well for me that i decided to take a chance on it. if i hadn’t made it myself, i don’t think i would ever have guessed it’s vegan. i happily eat dairy products, but i think this is quite possibly the best lasagna i’ve ever had! (my husband was skeptical before he tried it, too, but he loved it, as well!) ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 i’m happy you were surprised, in a great way! thank you for sharing, patricia. reply anna february 9, 2020 i had to prep the cashew and vegan parma’s the day before as i was expecting friends to come over. so i had them try the what i prepped and let me tell you. the vegan parmesan was better tasting and the sauce so goood. it is currently baking in the oven now and my daughter will love it. thank you. ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 thanks for taking the time to comment and review, anna! reply becky wint february 9, 2020 i was kind of scared of the cashew cream but oh my this tasted so great! my husband (who just started eating vegan) loved it! i made this using your homemade marinara and it was amazing! i also baked in a 9×13 vs 9×9 and it worked just fine. thank you for this and all your recipes. you never disappoint! ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 i’m glad you tried it anyway, becky! thanks for sharing. reply elissa february 9, 2020 kate, this recipe looks great! one question: i don’t have a high-powered blender but i do have a pretty good cuisinart food processor. should i still soak the cashews as instructed? reply kate february 10, 2020 how has it worked for you in the past? to be safe, i would still suggest it. reply patricia february 11, 2020 i don’t have a high-powered blender, either. i used my cuisinart and soaked the cashews first. my cashew cream wasn’t perfectly smooth. it actually had almost the exact same texture as ricotta cheese, so i thought the cuisinart worked well for this recipe, but i don’t think it would have been powerful enough to make the cream without soaking the cashews first. reply elissa february 16, 2020 update: i made this last night (soaked the cashews first) and it was delicious! my recently vegan husband was very happy to have lasagna, which i paired with a simple side salad. note: i used a 9×13 pan given my options. since there is more room to fill with noodles, the next time i make it in a 9×13 pan i’ll probably increase the veggie filling and sauce. thanks for a great new recipe! ★★★★★ reply emily february 9, 2020 fantastic! didn’t miss the cheese. my kids even liked it and they’re tough critics. i sprinkled some red pepper flakes on my serving to add some heat. ★★★★★ reply kate february 13, 2020 i love it! thank you for sharing, emily. reply garrett buckingham february 9, 2020 this recipe is amazing!!! please try this! my boyfriend is still eating meat and he said it was the best lasagna he has ever had. will definitely be making this again! ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 great to hear, garrett! thanks for taking the time to comment and review. reply sanjay mishra february 9, 2020 it looks really healthy and tasty. reply pauline february 10, 2020 thanks kate, i’m loving your recipes…. my granddaughter (2yrs) is severely allergic to dairy and nuts!!!!! a bit challenging for an old farming nana!!!!! what could i use instead of cashews? grateful for any ideas. thanks again x reply kate february 10, 2020 hi pauline! i wish i had an answer for you. in other applications, sunflower seeds or pepitas have worked. however, i’m not confident those would work here without trying it. reply ls february 10, 2020 hello, if cashews are problematic for some people, are sunflower or pumpkin seeds a viable option for the cream? thank you very much. reply kate february 10, 2020 hi! i wish i could say for sure. they work as good substitutes for other applications. but, i’m not sure without trying it. let me know if you try it! reply pamela bouchard february 10, 2020 thank you for the recipe. we are not eating gluten or grains, could we use zucchini strips instead of the noodles? what alterations would we need to make for that to work. i have tried zucchini noodles in another lasagne recipe with cheese, and it was ok, but a little watery. thank you, pamela reply kate february 10, 2020 hi pamela! i wouldn’t know without trying it. in my experience, they can be watery. maybe see if you can find a chickpea or lentil based pasta? reply kelly b february 10, 2020 i’m dairy-free right now for my little one, who seems to have a dairy intolerance. i decided to try this tonight, and shared it with my in-laws. they were initially a little hesitant, but then everyone dug right in and gave rave reviews. this was terrific and made my cheese loving heart so happy to get to eat something that gave me that feeling without actually using any dairy! ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 i’m glad it satisfied your cheese craving! i appreciate you taking the time to review. reply jen february 10, 2020 i wasn’t going to try this recipe because vegan lasagna doesn’t sound like it could be good but this was sooooooo good! it did not disappoint. i did not miss the cheese in this vegan version, and will most definitely make it again! it was so tasty, and as another reader commented, i can’t wait for leftovers! i added brown lentils, zucchini, and summer squash to the veggie mix. thank-you! ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 i’m really happy you tried it and loved it, jen! thanks for sharing. reply erica february 11, 2020 i love, love, love this recipe, as much as i love your roasted eggplant lasagna one. cashew cream – what a revelation! ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 i’m so happy to hear that, erica! thanks for your review. reply emily february 11, 2020 hi kate: thank you for this delicious recipe. i’m transitioning from a longtime vegetarian to vegan and this helps. also, i also wanted to leave a general note of gratitude. your work has made dinnertime so much easier over the past few years—-much appreciated! ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 you’re so sweet, emily! i’m happy the blog can be a continued resource for you. reply kim b february 11, 2020 another great recipe! i followed it exactly- used the rao’s sauce and the whole foods 365 brand no boil noodles, added in a yellow pepper that i had on hand, and wow! thanks for another amazing vegan recipe. ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 thanks for sharing! i’m glad you liked it, kim. reply megan february 11, 2020 i made this last night and it’s better than regular lasagna. that’s right i said it. it is crazy good. i didn’t miss the cheese at all. i used the rao marinara because it’s my fave. thanks so much for the recipe! ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 that’s fantastic, megan! thank you for sharing your feedback. i’m so glad you loved it. reply kelsey february 12, 2020 i substituted this with zucchini noodles (a similar width as lasagna noodles) and it was so delicious. i will absolutely be making it again and again. so many vegetables and so flavorful. ★★★★★ reply amanda february 13, 2020 i’ve had to cut dairy from my diet recently and have been finding it difficult to find recipes i love because who doesn’t love creamy comfort food?! i made this lasagna and it was delicious only thing i would change for future is adding more tomato sauce on the top layer as the oven ready noodles didn’t soften properly. but i found out the magic of cashew cream and can’t wait to try it in other recipes! ★★★★★ reply mamab february 13, 2020 do you have a good recommendation for substituting the mushrooms? unfortunately my spouse is allergic to them. thanks so much, love your cookbook! reply kate march 3, 2020 hi there! you’ll find some substitution ideas in the “change it up” recipe note. :) hope that helps! reply scott s february 14, 2020 wow. amazing. thank you. will definitely make again a and again. ★★★★★ reply david noel february 14, 2020 kate, this vegan lasagna was amazing! i have been trying to cut back a little on dairy. the cashew cream used in this has a wonderful flavor, i could eat it all by itself. even my husband loved this and he is not a complete vegetarian. your recipes always turn out so wonderful! my recipe file is filling up with “cookie & kate” recipes. thank you! ★★★★★ reply kay february 14, 2020 hi, this looks like a great vegan/vegitarian recipe but i’m a beginner at making these types of recipes. can i use butternut squash in place of the lasagna noodles? if yes, what else if anything, within the recipe would i need to alter? thanks in advance! reply kate march 3, 2020 hi kay! that’s an interesting question! i’ve never tried substituting butternut squash for lasagna noodles. the noodles absorb some of the moisture in the dish, so i’m not sure it would set properly without them. reply ray february 14, 2020 hi kate. after reading the ingredients and instructions to make your lasagna, i knew this was going to be a keeper. i was not wrong! i increased the recipe by a half and it fit perfectly in a 9×13 pan. simply divine, delicious, and destined to be shared with friends and family for years to come. thank you! ★★★★★ reply maai man february 15, 2020 excellent blog …. keep writing good stuff reply leigh a johnson february 15, 2020 this recipe was amazing! i made it for dinner tonight and it was simply delicious. my husband,who’s favorite meal of all time is the lasagna recipe on the back of the creamette box with ground beef and cottage cheese loved this. he said he would eat it every day. the cashew cream was so good we used a little as a dip for our carrots. will make it all again for sure! i never leave comments, but i had to this time. thank you for this awesome recipe!! ★★★★★ reply barbara february 15, 2020 sooo good! i wasn’t sure as i was making this that it would be as filling and satisfying as a meat/cheese lasagna, but it was — in fact, it was even better. i’m inspired now to try your other vegan recipes. thank you!!! also i should mention i used brown rice lasagna noodles but didn’t pre-boil them. the juices in the vegetables and the sauce were enough to soften them to a nice al dente finish in the oven. ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 you’re welcome, barbara! i’m happy you enjoyed it. reply regina february 16, 2020 more than delicious. the vegans at the table said it was the best lasagna they’d ever eaten. i used butternut squash instead of carrots, regular lasagna noodles (no no-bake) and baked it in a 9×13 pan. the rest of the recipe, i followed exactly, and i used the rao sauce for the first time, which is very good. ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 i love to hear that! thank you for sharing your adaptions, regina. reply susan february 16, 2020 i made this for my vegan husband and friends for dinner last night, to great acclaim. it is so delicious that we could hardly restrain ourselves from eating the entire dish. the cashew cream is good enough to eat straight (i know this because i did!). we sprinkled some of your vegan parmesan on top, but the lasagna really didn’t need the additional help. thank you for your fantastic recipes, many of which have achieved a place in our regular menu rotation. the vegan lasagna gets 10 out of 5 stars! xox ★★★★★ reply shelly l february 16, 2020 this was so delicious! i added some fresh parsley to the amazing cashew cream. couldn’t find delallo so used the 365 brand of no boil noodles from whole foods that happen to be vegan. this will definitely be repeated. thank you for another great recipe kate! ★★★★★ reply laura february 18, 2020 best vegan lasagna i have ever tasted and i’ve made a bunch of them! i cut dairy for gi reasons and didn’t notice the lack of in this recipe! my husband loved it!! really enjoyed the ricotta cashew :) ★★★★★ reply dan february 19, 2020 i am always skeptical of vegan variations, but this was one of the best lasagnas i have ever had. ★★★★★ reply karen s february 20, 2020 omg… this is seriously the best vegan lasagna recipe i have made! the ingredients were spot on as was the timing. i did use jovial gluten free lasagna noodles, and although the package said they did not need to be cooked, i decided to cook them about 4 minutes as didn’t want to chance having chewy noodles….it turned out great! the cashew cream was great and i made the vegan parmesan you mentioned,,,,,i was truly amazed about how good it was and a great parmesan substitute. hats off katie…..this was outstanding! ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 i love to hear that! thanks for sharing, karen. reply maggie landes february 22, 2020 delicious! couldn’t believe it didn’t have cheese in it! so good! ★★★★★ reply stacey february 22, 2020 i am a long time follower, but this is my first time commenting. kate, i absolutely love your blog, it has transformed how i both eat and look at food. your cookbook is the only one i have ever had that i use regularly and your recipes never fail to impressive my friend and family who are meat-oriented. this vegan lasagna is amazing, i never thought i would enjoy this more than a lasagna with cheese. (which is saying something because i adore the lasagna in your cookbook). this receipe is extremely flavorful and creamy! thank you so much for sharing! ★★★★★ reply kate february 24, 2020 stacey, so glad to know you’ve been reading along! thank you so much! delighted to hear that you enjoyed the lasagna and my cookbook recipes. :) have a great week! reply janet february 22, 2020 kate, your recipes never fail to deliver on flavour and this is yet another one. i was a little apprehensive with such few ingredients in the cashew nut cream that there would not be much flavour, but it was delicious! i varied the veggies and also added some lentils for extra protein and fibre, also some nutritional yeast to the cashew cream and it all worked out perfectly. your delicious recipes have managed to convince my meat loving husband that meals can be equally delicious and nutritious without eating meat – yay! thanks so much for your inspiration. ★★★★★ reply alexandra february 23, 2020 i made this for my sister who is vegan and just had a baby. i put it in one of those one time use aluminum casserole pans 9×11 because it was all i could find. i was going to tell her to freeze the whole thing. how would you recommend reheating it after it has been frozen as a whole casserole dish? by the way it looks and smells fantastic! reply kate february 24, 2020 hey alexandra! that’s so thoughtful of you. i would tell her to be sure to defrost it overnight (could take even longer). then bake as directed in the post, but it might need some extra time in the oven since it’s starting off chilled. i hope that works for her! reply alexandra february 24, 2020 thank you! i will let her know! reply alexandra march 2, 2020 i made this recipe for my family this weekend and it was delicious! your cashew sour cream was perfect, tasted just like ricotta. i didn’t miss the cheese at all! i also added a yellow bell pepper and zucchini for a little extra veg. will definitely make again! ★★★★★ reply nicole february 23, 2020 oh boy was i impressed by this recipe! a few years back i learned i had a dairy intolerance and lasagna was one of the things i missed most. i’ve always been skeptical of vegan lasagna and only tried it because of how much i trust kate’s recipes. i was shocked at how similar the cashew cream was to ricotta and this lasagna came out delicious! i also love that this is a healthier lasagna option. i will definitely be making this again, thanks so much for the great recipe! ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 i’m glad you were impressed and love this version! thanks for sharing, nicole. reply paula february 25, 2020 i made this for my son but was sceptical as i’m not vegan or a fan of meatless lasagne. i followed the instructions exactly, the cashew cream was so good and really added to the flavour, both my son and i loved this. i would definitely make again and not just for my son!!! great recipe, thank you. ★★★★★ reply amy february 25, 2020 i love this lasagna! as a new vegan, i’ve tried lots of vegan cheese and can’t find any i like. this on the other hand tastes amazing! it was not difficult to make and tasted just as good if not better than regular lasagna. and of course the raos sauce is the best. thank you kate! i’m a long time reader and love all the recipes i’ve tried and use your cookbook all the time!! ★★★★★ reply heather finney february 25, 2020 i have made this recipe at least 5 times! it is a family favorite and even my 6 year old asks for seconds. i’m not vegetarian but just try to eat less meat and this version is better than meat lasagna i swear!!! i have made it exactly as called for and also used ricotta cheese which i prefer to the cottage cheese (personal choose since i am not vegan). bravo this is a great recipe – thanks for making me look good! ★★★★★ reply carolyn february 26, 2020 this lasagna is amazing. the cashew cream is so delicious- is it gross i could eat it by the spoonful alone? my husband and i became dairy-free vegetarians a few months ago. we couldn’t have done it without your blog. thank you so much for continuing to make our dinners delicious and healthy!! ★★★★★ reply amanda february 26, 2020 this was so fantastic! it’s actually a delicious vegan lasagna! everyone loved it. i soaked my cashews and used an immersion blender – i think it worked well. and i used the veggies you suggested but will mix it up next time. thanks for the great recipe. ★★★★★ reply diane z february 27, 2020 easy. delicious. satisfying. my family enthusiastically gave this a 10 out of 10. will put this at the top of my recipe file! ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 hooray! thank you for sharing. reply regina whitehead march 1, 2020 cashew cream is a pita! also, not sure what the consistency is supposed to be like. mine didn’t pour like the picture. imade this for a vegan friend. it looks and smells great. aside from the dad-blasted cashew cream it’s a snap to put together. reply melissa march 9, 2020 kate, this is amazing! i haven’t been able to eat dairy for the past eight months and considered lasagna to be a dish that wouldn’t be “worth” making dairy-free. but i trust your recipes and gave it a try and it is so delicious and satisfying, i even prefer it to a lot of cheesy lasagna. thanks for your hard work, you are great at what you do! ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 i’m glad you have such confidence in my recipes and this was just what you needed! i appreciate your review, melissa! you should try my vegan mac & cheese too. :) i think you would like it! reply tj march 11, 2020 first time making vegan lasagna. wow, fantastic! love this recipe. the family all devoured it. so easy, and taste great! ★★★★★ reply kate march 12, 2020 thanks for sharing, tj! reply louise march 17, 2020 i made this last night and it was amazing! reply andré march 17, 2020 best lasagna i’ve had in my life! thank you so much for such wonderful vegan recipe! ★★★★★ reply em march 21, 2020 this recipe is a revelation! i can’t have gluten or dairy and haven’t had lasagna since i was a kid. already made this twice! i’m not vegan, so i tried mixing some ground beef with the veggies, and it works great too! thanks kate! ★★★★★ reply kate march 24, 2020 you’re welcome! thank you for review, em. reply katie march 22, 2020 this lasagna is delicious! it’s creamy, tomatoe-y, and very filling. this was my first time making any lasagna (i usually get a frozen one) so i learned the hard way that you really need to make sure your top noodles are swimming in sauce or else instead of baking flat they curl up into tubes. despite that hiccup, i still thoroughly enjoyed the lasagna and will be freezing some for future comforting dinners. i am trying to eat less dairy and this really satisfied that creamy craving. thank you kate!!! ★★★★★ reply sheri march 26, 2020 great recipe! it was the first time i had made the cashew cream and it did not disappoint! family loved it. fun to make! ★★★★★ reply kate march 26, 2020 love that sheri! reply hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}