subscribe coronavirus brief what to know maps staying healthy newsletter u.s. politics world tech entertainment subscribe close coronavirus brief what to know maps staying healthy newsletter home u.s. politics world business tech health entertainment science newsfeed living history ideas sports the time vault magazine time immersive audio longform photography videos press room shop time the 100 most influential people guns in america next generation leaders person of the year space explorers: the iss experience time cover store time for kids time edge subscribe give a gift newsletters feedback jobs privacy policy your california privacy rights terms of use ad choices time apps advertising reprints and permissions help site map customer service eu customer service stay connected entertainment books here are the 11 new books you should read in march here are the 11 new books you should read in march getty images by annabel gutterman updated: march 3, 2020 3:24 pm est | originally published: february 28, 2020 3:27 pm est many of the best new books this month ask readers to think about consequences. how can a decision one individual makes alter the course of several lives? in james mcbride’s latest novel, a single act of violence sends shockwaves through a tight-knit brooklyn community. in kevin nguyen’s debut, two overworked and under-appreciated employees at a tech company must deal with the ramifications of an impulsive invasion of privacy. nonfiction titles, like former national security advisor john bolton‘s embattled new memoir, also bring forward questions of how we deal with choices made by people in power — and how those choices impact our future. here, the 11 new books you should read in march. getty images we ride upon sticks, quan barry (march 3) though the 1989 massachusetts high school field hockey season hasn’t started in earnest, the danvers falcons are concerned. the team can’t seem to win a game at summer training camp, which makes their goal of reaching the state finals in a few months seem less than realistic. but their luck starts to turn around after members of the squad begin signing their names in what might be a magical notebook, one that features emilio estevez’s face on the cover. the bizarre premise of quan barry’s novel evolves into a fresh coming-of-age story as she explores the team’s desperation to win — and their growing experimentation with witchcraft. buy now: we ride upon sticks getty images the night watchman, louise erdrich (march 3) the latest from national book award winner louise erdrich again delves into her chippewa heritage, but this time takes inspiration from her grandfather’s work as a night watchman in the 1950s. the novel follows the titular character as he works to protect his tribe against congress’ new “emancipation” bill, which threatens their rights to their land. though it is set decades ago, the story resonates today as erdrich dissects a native community forced to deal with the ramifications of the government’s actions. buy now: the night watchman getty images anna k: a love story, jenny lee (march 3) at the center of this innovative retelling of leo tolstoy’s classic anna karenina is anna k, a 17-year-old korean-american socialite. after a chance encounter leaves her charmed by a boy who is infamous for hopping around boarding schools, anna k wrestles with whether to pursue the relationship (and dump her current, seemingly perfect boyfriend in the process). the debut ya novel from television writer and producer jenny lee illustrates the push and pull of first love — and was optioned for tv more than a year before its publication. related stories entertainment 10 virtual book clubs you can join now entertainment facetime with terry mcmillan buy now: anna k getty images deacon king kong, james mcbride (march 3) in his first novel since his 2013 national book award winner the good lord bird, james mcbride analyzes the impact of a surprising act of violence on a south brooklyn neighborhood in 1969. the incident in question — the shooting of a local drug dealer by a church deacon — shakes up a diverse group of characters, from the black and latinx residents who witnessed the crime to members of the deacon’s church. flipping between several of their voices, deacon king kong seeks to understand not only why the violence occurred, but also how it is connected to the deep, multicultural history of this slice of new york city. buy now: deacon king kong getty images the mirror & the light, hilary mantel (march 10) the highly anticipated (and long-awaited) third and final installment of hilary mantel’s wolf hall trilogy captures 16th-century english lawyer thomas cromwell’s final years before he meets a brutal end. picking up after anne boleyn’s execution, the mirror & the light concludes the acclaimed series, which has sold millions of copies and made mantel the first woman to win the booker prize twice. like the two novels that came before it, this one promises to take an unflinching look at the relationship between power, wealth and politics. buy now: the mirror & the light getty images new waves, kevin nguyen (march 10) frustrated by how they are treated at their tech startup, margo, a black programmer, and lucas, an asian customer service representative, pair up to steal their company’s user data. shortly after, the duo take jobs together at another startup — but soon margo unexpectedly dies in a car crash. the debut novel from journalist kevin nguyen follows lucas as he carries the burden of their shared secret, which leads him to discover more about margo’s personal life online. as nguyen describes his protagonist’s struggles with grief and guilt, the author points to frightening realities concerning how information on the internet stays safe — or doesn’t. buy now: new waves getty images recollections of my nonexistence: a memoir, rebecca solnit (march 10) activist and essayist rebecca solnit has long captured the discomforts and difficulties of modern womanhood. now, the author who helped identify the “mansplaining” phenomenon is tracing her coming-of-age in 1980s san francisco. there, she lived with little money and the looming threats of gender-based violence and harassment. but solnit also discovered the power of art and community, and in describing those years, she details how she found her voice as an advocate for herself and those around her. spotlight story 'without empathy, nothing works.' chef josé andrés wants to feed the world through the pandemic celebrity chef josé andrés is focused on feeding americans affected by coronavirus. here's how he plans to do it. buy now: recollections of my nonexistence getty images enter the aardvark, jessica anthony (march 24) what does taxidermy have to do with the current state of american politics? a lot, apparently, or so jessica anthony guides readers to believe in her inventive and darkly funny novel examining how and why a young republican congressman finds a stuffed aardvark strangely placed on his doorstep. the premise is peculiar, but as anthony connects characters from today with those from 19th-century england, she offers an original and unsettling lens through which to view male power as it has evolved over time. buy now: enter the aardvark getty images the city we became, n. k. jemisin (march 24) the latest fantasy — and the first book in a new trilogy — from award-winning author n. k. jemisin reimagines a world where human avatars must protect cities against evil. five characters, each named after a new york city borough, must learn how to work together to save the city. as the avatars showcase their different personalities, jemisin’s initially unfamiliar world grows closer to our own — one contending with racism, violence and gentrification. buy now: the city we became getty images the glass hotel, emily st. john mandel (march 24) when vincent meets her husband for the first time, she’s a bartender at the grand and isolated hotel he owns on vancouver island. that same night, the hotel lobby’s glass wall is defaced with an ominous message: “why don’t you swallow broken glass.” in unveiling the meaning of the threat and how it came it be, national book award finalist emily st. john mandel moves between a cast of characters linked to the evening and its aftermath. like her 2014 novel station eleven, the glass hotel inspects how quickly life can change after tragedy, this time by way of devastating fraud. buy now: the glass hotel getty images wow, no thank you., samantha irby (march 31) comedian samantha irby’s new collection of essays continue to display her talent at picking apart the absurdities that accompany 21st-century life. whether she’s writing about living with her wife in a small midwestern town or her relationship with her body, irby isn’t afraid to get candid and share her own insecurities. in doing so, she crafts smart takes on popular social trends, poking fun at how they are changing the way we think and live. buy now: wow, no thank you. update, march 3 this article originally included the room where it happened by john bolton. on march 3, the publisher announced the book will now be published in may. correction, feb. 29 the original version of this story misstated the origins of the word “mansplaining.” rebecca solnit did not coin the term, she helped identify the phenomenon. most popular on time 1 will covid-19 ever really go away? 2 report of urns in wuhan raises questions about covid-19 death toll 3 is the u.s. 'flattening the curve?' check our chart write to annabel gutterman at annabel.gutterman@time.com. each product we feature has been independently selected and reviewed by our editorial team. if you make a purchase using the links included, we may earn commission. read more from time most popular stories 1 will covid-19 ever really go away? 2 report of urns in wuhan raises questions about covid-19 death toll 3 is the u.s. 'flattening the curve?' check our chart 4 fbi arrests actor who claimed he had a coronavirus cure related stories edit post subscribe & save subscribe today and save up to 84% off the cover price. subscribe now sign up for our newsletters sign up to receive the top stories you need to know now on politics, health and more subscribe home u.s. politics world business tech entertainment health science newsfeed living ideas history sports the time vault magazine newsletters masthead time immersive audio longform subscribe give a gift time for kids time edge time cover store press room customer service eu customer service site map ad choices advertising careers © 2020 time usa, llc. all rights reserved. use of this site constitutes acceptance of our terms of use, privacy policy (your california privacy rights) and california do not sell my personal information. time may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. offers may be subject to change without notice.