about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ best stuffed shells 55 comments jump to recipe these stuffed shells are cheesy, saucy, and stuffed with the most delicious ricotta and spinach filling. i’m in love, and i think you will be, too. speaking of love, they’re so pretty that you could serve these shells for a romantic valentine’s dinner at home. a few more reasons to love this recipe: it yields a lot of shells, so it’s perfect for serving a crowd. leftovers are great for lunch, or you can freeze them for later. this recipe is relatively easy to make, with minimal chopping. this stuffed shells recipe features simple and classic italian ingredients. you’ll need jumbo shells, marinara sauce, ricotta cheese, mozzarella, a little parmesan, garlic and seasonings. to make this cheesy dish more redeeming, i added an entire pound of fresh greens! you can use fresh or frozen spinach or kale. the greens yield a gorgeous, vibrant green filling with a lovely, mild flavor. these stuffed shells are honestly the best i’ve ever had, by a long shot. keep reading for some fun variations and tips. how to make the best stuffed shells this recipe comes together easily, with minimal chopping. you’ll find the full recipe below, but here’s a rundown: first, we’ll blanch the greens. this is really easy—just dump them in a big pot of salted water and cook until they’re wilted (about 30 seconds). using tongs, transfer the greens to a large bowl of ice water. this step preserves their beautiful, bright green color. once chilled, squeeze all the water out of the greens and set aside. cook the pasta shells in the same pot of water you used for the greens. the water will be a fun shade of greenish yellow, but the pasta will turn out perfectly. we’ll cook the shells until they’re almost al dente—in other words, we want them nicely pliable but not fully tender. they’ll finish cooking in the oven. then, whip up the filling in the food processor. since we’re blending up the garlic and chives, we don’t need to bother chopping them finely by hand. stuff each shell with a generous spoonful of filling and place them in snug little rows across marinara-lined bakers. spoon marinara sauce over the shells. we don’t need them completely covered. finish them off with the remaining mozzarella cheese. bake, and serve. stuffed shells tips this section features several affiliate links, meaning we’ll earn a small commission if you purchase through these links. you’ll need to bust out your largest pot and baking dish for this recipe. ideally, use a 5.5-quart or larger dutch oven or stockpot to boil the greens and pasta. then, you’ll transfer all of the cooked greens to a very large bowl of ice water. finally, you’ll need an extra-large baker (even larger than 9 by 13 inches) or a combination of two bakers like you’ll see below (say, 9 by 13 and 8 by 8). the filling comes together nicely in a food processor. if you don’t have a food processor, no problem. chop up the ingredients (chop the chives and garlic finely, and the cooked greens into very small pieces) and stir the ingredients together by hand. to save time, use store-bought marinara sauce. my favorites are rao’s (it comes pretty close to my homemade marinara) or newman’s own organic. i try to avoid marinaras with added sugar, since it’s unnecessary. or, make my homemade marinara sauce the night before (be sure to double the recipe to have enough). you can also save time (and money) by using frozen greens. frozen greens are less expensive and work perfectly well for this recipe. just defrost them in a colander under running water, squeeze out excess water, and it’s good to go. these shells make great leftovers! store them in the refrigerator for up to 4 days, or in the freezer for several months. stuffed shell recipe variations i’m completely smitten with this recipe as written below. here are some fun ways to change it up: for lighter, less cheesy shells, use half as much mozzarella or omit it completely. for standard cheesy shells (no greens), double the ricotta, finely chop the chives, press or mince the garlic, and stir the mixture together by hand. for veggie shells, replace the greens with about 2 cups cooked or roasted vegetables. for dairy-free or vegan shells, use my vegan sour cream in place of the ricotta, and sprinkle some vegan parmesan on top. find more details in the recipe notes. please let me know how your shells turn out in the comments. i love hearing from you and hope this recipe is a big hit. craving more saucy italian meals? here are a few of my favorites: best vegetable lasagna or vegan lasagna baked ziti with roasted vegetables or lentil baked ziti roasted ratatouille italian eggplant parmesan spaghetti squash “pizza” bowls i’d serve this recipe or any of the above with my italian chopped salad—even a simplified version would be perfect. print best stuffed shells author: cookie and kate prep time: 30 minutes cook time: 35 minutes total time: 1 hour 5 minutes yield: 8 servings 1x category: entree method: baked cuisine: italian ★★★★★ 4.8 from 27 reviews this stuffed shells recipe features cheesy, saucy shells stuffed with a delicious spinach and ricotta filling. make these stuffed shells for dinner tonight! recipe yields about 28 shells, about 8 servings. scale 1x2x3x ingredients 1 pound (16 ounces) fresh baby spinach or baby kale, or frozen spinach or kale, or 1 ½ pounds tuscan kale or spinach bunches, washed and stems removed 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 12 ounces jumbo shells 4 cloves garlic, peeled and cut into several segments 15 ounces (or 1 pound) ricotta cheese or cottage cheese 8 ounces (2 cups) grated part-skim mozzarella, divided ½ cup (2 ounces) grated parmesan, plus extra for garnish ¼ cup (⅔-ounce) chives or green onions (mostly green parts), cut into ¼-long pieces freshly ground pepper, to taste ½ teaspoon red pepper flakes, to taste (omit if sensitive to spice) ¾ teaspoon fine sea salt, to taste 1 large egg, lightly beaten with a fork 3 cups (24 ounces) marinara sauce, homemade* or store-bought (i used rao’s) fresh basil for garnish, optional instructions preheat the oven to 375 with racks in the middle and upper third of the oven. bring a large dutch oven or stockpot of water to boil over high heat. generously salt the water (use at least 2 teaspoons). if you’re not using frozen greens, fill a large bowl with ice water for blanching. if you’re using fresh greens, add them to the boiling water and cook just until wilted, about 20 to 40 seconds. using tongs (leave the water in the pot), transfer the greens to the ice bath and let them cool down. drain off the water and squeeze as much excess water from the greens as possible. set aside. (if you’re using frozen greens, place them in a colander and run cool water over them until they’ve full defrosted. squeeze out as much excess water as possible, and set aside.) bring the water in the pot back to a boil. gently add the pasta shells in handfuls so they don’t break on the way in. cook until pliable but just shy of al dente, about 10 minutes, stirring often so they don’t stick to the pot. drain off the water, return the noodles to the pot, and gently stir in the olive oil to prevent the noodles from sticking. set aside. turn on your food processor and drop the garlic through the feeding tube. once the garlic is chopped and stuck to the sides of the bowl, stop the machine and scrape down the sides. for good measure, squeeze off any remaining water in the greens, then add them to the bowl. process until the greens are chopped into small pieces. add the ricotta and process until well blended. add half of the mozzarella, reserving the rest for topping. add all of the parmesan and chives, about 10 twists of black pepper, the red pepper flakes and salt. blend well. taste, and add additional salt, pepper or red pepper flakes if desired. finally, add the egg and process until blended. set aside. if you have an extra-large baking dish (larger than 9×13 inches), spread 1 cup of the marinara sauce across the bottom. otherwise, divide 1 cup marinara between a large (9×13 inches) and medium-sized baker (say, an 8-inch square). you might need to add another splash of sauce to evenly coat the bottom of the pans. stuff each intact shell with a heaping spoonful (about 1 ½ to 2 tablespoons) of the green mixture. place each stuffed shell in the baker in rows. (you might have a few leftover or broken shells; save them for another use.) spoon the remaining marinara sauce over the tops of the shells. top the shells with the remaining mozzarella. cover the baker(s) tightly with foil and bake on the middle rack for 30 minutes. then, remove the foil and place the bakers on the upper rack. bake for 5 to 10 more minutes, until the mozzarella is fully melted and turning just slightly golden (you can bake longer for a more golden effect, but the greens will become less vibrant). garnish the shells with a light dusting of grated parmesan and some small or torn fresh basil leaves. leftover shells will keep well in the refrigerator for up to 4 days, or freeze them for several months. notes recipe adapted from two new york times recipes: stuffed shells filled with spinach and ricotta by martha rose sherman and stuffed shells by ali slagle. *homemade marinara sauce note: you’ll need to double my marinara recipe to yield enough for this recipe, and then you’ll have extra. if you don’t think you’ll use it up within a few days, you can freeze it for later. prepare in advance: you can assemble the shells (through step 7) and store the bakers in the refrigerator until ready to bake. while i haven’t tried freezing the shells, they seem like excellent candidates. let the frozen shells defrost in the refrigerator before baking. since they’re starting off cold, they might need a few more minutes in the oven. change it up: for less cheesy shells, use half as much mozzarella or omit it completely. for standard cheesy shells (no greens), double the ricotta, finely chop the chives, press or mince the garlic, and stir the mixture together by hand. you could also replace the greens with about 2 cups cooked or roasted vegetables. make it egg free: simply omit the egg. the egg helps the cheese set, but i’ve heard from readers that it turns out well without it! make it dairy free/vegan: double my vegan sour cream recipe, and leave it in the blender. add the greens, garlic, chives, black pepper and red pepper flakes (hold off on the additional salt). process until the mixture is pretty well blended, and add salt to taste. skip the egg. follow the sauce and baking instructions as written. if desired, garnish with a light sprinkle of vegan parmesan. ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes classic minestrone soup best vegetable lasagna spinach pasta with roasted broccoli & bell pepper share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories christmas, fall, italian, main dishes, pack for lunch, recipes, soy free, spring, winter ▸ ingredients kale, mozzarella, parmesan, pasta, spinach ↢ newer how to cook perfect wild rice older ↣ how to roast garlic by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) peg february 13, 2020 how many boxes of frozen spinach are needed to equal the 1 pound of fresh? sounds delicious. ★★★★★ reply kate march 3, 2020 hi peg! you’ll need 16 ounces frozen spinach. reply cindy february 13, 2020 i love this recipe and make a few minor (unnecessary) tweaks. i add cream cheese to almost every meal that uses mozzarella cheese! so i just add 8oz of cream cheese and use cottage cheese for ricotta, and blend it all together! such deliciousness!!! ★★★★★ reply kate march 3, 2020 that sounds so good, cindy! i love the tang that cream cheese provides. reply hayley february 13, 2020 i made something similar to this years ago with an almond ricotta but i lost the recipe. i can’t wait to try this (vegan) version. i already planned to make the enchiladas in your cookbook for valentines day, so this will have to be next weekend! reply cathy miller february 13, 2020 kate, looks so yummy and i’ve been wanting to make this lately. i have my own recipe but i’m going to try yours because i love how you made the spinach creamy! i love spinach any way except from a can. looks like a game changer! i made your hummus this past fall and now my grown kids follow you! sweet!!! thanks for sharing. reply kate march 11, 2020 you’re welcome! i hope you enjoyed this one, cathy. reply aliza february 13, 2020 curious how you think it’d be if you used fresh spinach but didn’t even cook it — i’m thinking since you’re blending it up anyway, why cook first ? does it improve flavor or texture to cook the spinach first? i can’t wait to make this! yum! reply kate march 3, 2020 hi aliza! cooking the spinach (and then dunking it in ice water) makes it soft and reduces its overall volume so it blends more easily. the ice bath helps preserve its bright green color. lastly, i think it helps reduce the moisture contained in the spinach, so your shells aren’t watery. all that said, i haven’t tried not cooking the spinach—do report back if you try it that way! reply ivana february 14, 2020 last week i bought shells for the first time in life (they were on offer), and my thought was that for sure i’ll find something to do with them on your blog. and here it is!!! i’m so looking forward to making these this weekend :) reply linda february 14, 2020 …anxious to try this recipe but was wondering if one would use dry curd cottage cheese or creamed cottage cheese in place of the ricotta? reply kate march 3, 2020 hi linda! i think that would work beautifully. i’ve used cottage cheese in lasagna recipes in place of ricotta, no problem. reply linda. march 4, 2020 hi kate…thanks for your reply….just wonder which texture to use? dry curd or creamy cottage cheese? reply kate march 10, 2020 hi linda! i’m sorry for the slow response. i’ve actually never used dry curd cottage cheese, to my knowledge. other commenters are reporting that cottage cheese is working well for them but not specifying the type (i would assume they’re using creamy). reply sue february 14, 2020 this looks so good that i’m going to try. it. if using frozen spinach, would you still use the same weight as fresh – 1 pound? reply kate march 3, 2020 yes, one pound! reply teresa prichard february 14, 2020 valentine’s dinner tonight was stuffed shells with a salad and bread. this is an absolutely delicious recipe. i used trader joe’s roasted garlic sauce, but your recipe was perfect as written. another cookie and kate winner. ★★★★★ reply paige cassandra flamm february 14, 2020 these look so good! i totally need to add them to the menu for next week! ★★★★ reply nicola february 15, 2020 this is a stunning and delicious recipe! made last night for valentines day. it was a hit! ★★★★★ reply alton february 15, 2020 i can’t wait to try this recipe. it looks great!! making my wife a three layered strawberry cake ★★★★★ reply loril february 16, 2020 thanks soooo much for the delicious recipe and clear directions. i used half spinach and half kale. it’s a do over for sure and would be good to double for a crowd. i’m curious about other ways to use the stuffing because it was so good… thanks again, l ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 if you have other ideas for the stuffing, let me know! it’s so good. i appreciate your comment and review. reply rhonda february 16, 2020 super delicious – thank you for another excellent recipe!!! i was intrigued with the vibrant green color of the filling and the beautiful contrast with the red sauce, so i decided to try it valentine’s day. truly named well – the best stuffed shells i’ve ever had. i found it faster and neater to pipe the filling into the shells with a pastry bag. i used my favorite italian red sauce, and added a bit extra mozzarella on top before baking. we had them for dinner two nights in a row, and still have more. i suspect this will be my only stuffed shells recipe from here on. ★★★★★ reply julie ann february 16, 2020 this recipe turned out delicious, kate – i made it tonight as-is with fresh baby spinach (i have a second batch in the oven as i write this, i had to make two because i have a small oven!) it’s a hit, thank you once again from montreal! ★★★★★ reply alana february 16, 2020 as usual this is fantastic! i have never made any of your recipes and been dissapointed. ★★★★★ reply robin bear february 16, 2020 my daughter-in-law is a vegetarian and we made these together at our cabin this past weekend. these are the best stuffed shells we’ve tasted! everyone loved the vibrant green colored filling and we thought cottage cheese gave it better flavor than ricotta. we loved the added flavor the red pepper flakes gave this dish, too. i also made the fresh homemade marinara sauce with the link you provided. we won’t be using jar sauce anymore! fantastic! thanks cookieandkate! ★★★★★ reply tami february 16, 2020 i made the recipe using a jarred marinara, but following filling recipe as described. it was absolutely delicious. half of the shells i added seasoned ground beef to before topping with the spinach /cheese mixture. it got rave reviews. it’s hard to find recipes that i can combine vegetarian options with meat options for the meat lovers in my family. i didn’t have parmesan, so i just used a little extra mozzarella. this is now a family favorite!! ★★★★★ reply lyn february 17, 2020 thank you so much for all of your wonderful recipes! in the make it dairy free/vegan notes, you said you were 85% confident about your suggestions working. i tried them and wanted to report that you can be 100% confident – it turned out wonderfully! the only downside is that the cashews in the vegan sour cream detract from the vibrant green color of the cheese version but it was still absolutely delicious!! reply kate march 3, 2020 wonderful! thanks so much for letting me know, lyn—i’ll update the note accordingly. reply kerry february 18, 2020 i made this last night and it was delicious! the whole family went back for seconds. luckily, i had set some aside for my lunch today. ★★★★★ reply sam february 18, 2020 these shells are amazing! i made them for our family day long weekend and they were a big hit. ★★★★★ reply sandra l irick february 19, 2020 we made this recipe as a lasagna, because we had lasagna noodles. used your marinara sauce recipe, queso fresco, manchego, and mozzarella. absolutely delicious!!! ★★★★★ reply andrea february 19, 2020 fantastic recipe! my guests loved it. i used cottage cheese instead of ricotta and a mix of spinach and kale. i used my homemade marinara from oh she glows. will make this again (and again). ★★★★★ reply summer humphries february 20, 2020 these shells are wonderful! it dawned on me later that i forgot the egg, but the filling baked and set just fine! wonderfully creamy and satisfying! ★★★★★ reply kate march 3, 2020 thanks summer! glad to hear they worked great without the egg! reply jordan kolmer february 20, 2020 my husband told me this is the best vegetarian meal i’ve ever made for him (and that’s out of a lot of meals i’ve made for him, so big praise)! our local grocery was out of the rao’s marinara, so we used their tomato basil sauce instead. he had the leftovers for lunch today and has texted me several times raving about how he just can’t get over how good they were. thanks for the great recipe! reply kate march 3, 2020 victory!!! hooray! thank you for coming back to let me know. reply ash february 20, 2020 these shells are delicious. made them for some meat-loving friends and they devoured it. your italian salad was the perfect side, and also a hit! so good i made another batch for work lunches :-) thank you! ★★★★★ reply kate march 3, 2020 thanks so much, ash! i want to come over for dinner. :) reply christopher feick february 24, 2020 simple, delicious, and absolutely satisfying! ★★★★★ reply jan livingston march 1, 2020 this was so good! thank you for this great recipe! finally found a source for gluten-free shells at the gluten free mall online. my partner couldn’t stop eating them. ★★★★★ reply kate march 3, 2020 thanks jan! i’m glad you found some good gluten-free shells—thank you for sharing your source! reply jan livingston march 3, 2020 i have been looking for good shells for a long time. once i found your recipe and searched again, and these are great! reply becky march 1, 2020 i tried this recipe and unfortunately, i have to give it a thumbs down. i am always leery when i see a recipe that does not saute garlic, scallions, etc. because that flavor it too pronounced, but i gave it a go anyway. bad choice. perhaps this recipe would work if the garlic and scallions were not overpowering the entire dish. great meal if you want to keep vampires away. ★ reply kate march 3, 2020 hi becky, i’m sorry to hear it! the oven really tempered the garlic and green onion for my palate. if you’re generally sensitive to the flavor of such ingredients, you may want to halve the amounts. reply becky mata march 4, 2020 thanks kate for replying. even though this recipe didn’t work out for my family, i still enjoy your other recipes. your granola and southwestern kale, black bean power bowl is devine! even my 7 year old loves it! reply sandy march 2, 2020 easy to make and oh so good….best stuffed shells ever. ★★★★★ reply connie march 3, 2020 kate, these are fantastic!! they look good and are delicious! i love that there are leftovers also! thank you for another keeper of a recipe. ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 you’re welcome, connie! reply peg march 4, 2020 thank you so much for your response to my very naive question. the recipe looks absolutely delicious. ★★★★★ reply kelly march 6, 2020 my family loved this recipe. this is the first recipe that i’ve made of yours and it was delicious and healthy. ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 i hope this recipe brings you back to try more! i’m happy you loved it, kelly. be sure to let me know what you think of other recipes. :) reply jackie march 9, 2020 loved it – thank you! i used lasagna noodles and made rolls since i had them in the pantry already. i only used 5 oz of fresh spinach, as that’s what was in the frig and it still turned out great :) ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 that’s a great idea! thanks for sharing, jackie. reply alr march 17, 2020 this meal was incredible. recommend using belgioso mozz and parm. we used rao’s sauce as noted above and chose the arrabiata one to add a little spice. we are definitely adding this to our rotation of favorites. thanks for all of the work you put into providing us with amazing recipes! everything we have made from your site has been great. ★★★★★ reply hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}