skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » 38 best wordpress fitness themes 2020 for gym, fitness centers and crossfit groups 38 best wordpress fitness themes 2020 for gym, fitness centers and crossfit groups january 14, 2020 aigars theme collections 52 comments list of best responsive wordpress fitness themes designed and developed especially for gym and fitness center and personal trainer websites. these are versatile and highly customizable wordpress themes that allow you to make your own unique and professional website you have always wanted. wordpress is by far the most popular content management system used by 300 million or 34% of the entire websites. it is simple, easy to use and setup and it’s free to use for commercial or any other purpose. thanks to the incredible community around it you can get done anything with it without writing your own code. these fitness themes are a great example of how you can integrate time schedule management, training programs, contact form, trainer pages, and payment systems and customize them via a simple web interface. most likely there are hundreds or at least dozens of gyms, fitness centers and crossfit groups near your location, so you need to stand out. creating a unique and professional website might play a crucial role in your business success. make your website seo friendly and google will do the rest to bring your business in front of the right people. jevelin – fitness wordpress theme jevelin is a feature-rich and user-friendly fitness wordpress theme for any kind of fitness-related websites such as yoga studios, gyms, crossfit gyms and so much more. fitness websites find in jevelin a sound ally for a brilliantly speedy single-click setup and a completely visual customization process involving drag and drop page builder and a set of powerful admin panel settings all a couple of clicks away, each with the potential to utterly alter the look and feel of your website inside out. helpful shortcodes and awesome google maps capabilities let fitness webmasters set up their own routes and share them with their audience with simplicity while numerous attractive portfolio layout settings let you show off the finest photographies of your workouts or routines in the most favorable light. with powerful built-in social media sharing features, jevelin is perfect to raise awareness and spread the voice about your fitness efforts. check out jevelin today! more info / download demo infinite infinite is a creative and responsive wordpress multipurpose theme. this theme has been created for people with or without previous website building experience. infinite is built around the unique goodlayers drag and drop page builder, also featuring the revolution, master and layerslider slider premium plugins and a vast variety of wonderfully composed demo websites and template pages for you to get things started off on the right foot, regardless of your niche. infinite’s fitness demo website, geared towards fitness centers, fitness magazines and bloggers, gyms and similar, related endeavors and enterprises is a fantastic solution for the health-conscious webmaster that wants to display gorgeous visual content of facilities, routines and services to a wide online audience while effectively marketing membership packages, fitness-related products and wares and more. try infinite now! more info / download demo thegem thegem is an impressive mobile-friendly wordpress creative multipurpose theme for fitness websites. moreover, thegem incorporates the wpbakery page builder, a premium drag and drop page builder that makes short work of most visual and layout customization tasks without having to write a single line of code, offering you over 60 functional elements with over 250 customizable settings in total, so you are always in complete control of your website. on top of that, thegem’s 40+ carefully designed demo website templates include some of the most complete and high-performance fitness center, gym and general fitness website demos on the market today. additionally, everything from trainers and classes in convenient widgets to thousands of awesome font icons for you to always find the right way to express yourself has been selected to meet the needs of fitness-related websites, even including an out of the box functional online store for your fitness products. try thegem today, and unlock your potential! more info / download demo kalium kalium is a youthful and unique wordpress creative website theme for professionals. mobile-friendly and cross-compatible to the core, kalium’s bootstrap modular design makes it a lightweight, top performer across the board. without of the box fully functional fitness demo websites fleshed out with dummy content and inner pages, kalium is a favorite of fitness enthusiasts, athletes and all similar individuals with fitness-related interests looking for an online home for their exercise routines, fitness tips and tricks, gym and fitness center recommendations or favorite hiking routes, with utter ease. feature-rich, kalium allows your users to even shop for fitness-related products offered by yourself or your affiliates right off your website, complete with multiple shop layouts and listing options, dynamic portfolio styles and fully functional order tracking template pages available within a single click. try kalium today, and feel the difference! more info / download demo gymedge gymedge is a fresh and responsive wordpress gym and fitness multipurpose website theme. this theme is a capable framework for crafting impressive modern websites. with gymedge you can build awesome fitness center websites in a matter of minutes. incredibly functionality awaits within gymedge. multiple templates and demo websites let you hit the ground running. the wpbakery page builder and redux framework make customization a breeze. branding and styling has never been this easy and intuitive. gymedge makes setting up shop online simple regardless of your skill level. thorough documentation lets you make the most of powerful premium plugins. the layer slider 6 lets you showcase your content in unique, creative displays. engage your audience in a memorable manner and exhibit your services. show off your facilities and packages and introduce your staff in style. gymedge is the real deal, complete with commercial capabilities. market your memberships to your visitors right off your website. gymedge is powered by woocommerce and makes payment gateways and checkouts simple. you can make a sale within hours of initial setup with gymedge. convenient scheduling and class widgets make creating clever gym and yoga websites easy. dazzle and impress your audience with tech-savvy features. check out gymedge today! more info / download demo webify fitness-related websites are just around the corner when you gain access to webify. this multi-functional wordpress theme has you sorted out with all the layouts and elements you need to present your business on the web like a champ. no need to start from scratch anymore; with webify, you completely avoid doing any of the hard work. meaning, you will never need to code to create, manage and maintain a successful website with webify. other qualities of webify are complete responsiveness and cross-browser compatibility, fast loading speed, total creative freedom and an immense library of ready-to-use blocks and modules. for the quickest page creation just mix and match what’s in store for you and you are ready to roll. however, do know that you can fine-tune and alter webify completely, which unlocks even more options and solutions for you. more info / download demo divi regardless of the business, you want to start or already run successfully, divi is the multi-functional wordpress theme that caters to any industry seamlessly. in our case, use it as a wordpress fitness theme and get things going online in a snap of fingers. with countless demos and other ready-to-use features and layouts, you can take your gym and fitness business to a whole new level. show your expertness and push all your fantastic classes and help folks get in shape. now you can hammer out a spectacular website for all your fitness needs and provide the information they require. with divi’s epic flexibility and extendability, you will have a breeze setting up a custom website that will follow your branding to a t. let them experience your professionalism from a mobile or desktop device, using any modern web browser. divi is a real gem. more info / download demo massive dynamic massive dynamic is a beautiful wordpress creative multipurpose website builder. this theme is a very modern solution with an intuitive interface that allows them to craft professional quality websites in a matter of minutes, with deep-seated functionality and novel features. massive dynamic well suited for managing all sorts of fitness and health-related websites. from gyms to fitness consultants, from cross fitter websites to fitness magazines, massive dynamic’s sheer design freedom, deft handling of visual content and gorgeous portfolio features, such as the portfolio live rearrange resizable masonry grid style, make it a customer favorite and an eye-catching conceptual wonder all in one. with the mailchimp subscription newsletter, your users will easily be able to keep up with fitness events, news and activities, and the smooth add to any social sharing plugin ensures your reach is broader than you ever thought possible. more info / download demo ekko ekko is a multi-concept wordpress theme that suits a ton of different business and project ideas. sporting over fifty complete demos tells you more than enough. indeed, you can also use ekko as a wordpress fitness theme by employing the included demo and be ready and set to hit the streets of the online space swiftly. no need to have any experience with coding either; with ekko, you do the coding part visually thanks to the wpbakery drag and drop page builder. it all begins with a full-screen slider that ekko uses to welcome all your potential members to your world of fitness and health. other amenities include parallax effect, pricing plans, google maps, weekly class schedule and sticky navigation. you will find a lot more in this massive package of layouts and components that goes by the name ekko. make your fitness facility stand out a mile with ekko. more info / download demo kallyas kallyas is a youthful and creativve wordpress multipurpose website theme. it is a massive, ambitious and broad website building tool, a platform to empower everyone to easily and efficiently construct their very own customized websites in a matter of minutes. kallyas comes prepared with a plentiful, varied collection of powerful and professionally designed template pages and demo websites to suit myriad different purposes. kallyas is perfect for webmasters seeking to establish an online home for a fitness center, gym, health spa or any similar, related business endeavor. with kallyas, initial setup is uncomplicated and hassle-free. it involves a single-click importation while customization options are diverse and streamlined through the integrated plugin-free visual builder. a drag and drop page editor that gives you total control over your website’s look and feel. over 100 elements and widgets are readily available within, including helpful features like pricing tables, staff blurbs, services widgets and much more to get the word about your fitness center out there to the world at large. extensive seo coding makes your kallyas websites pop the top of all relevant searches overnight. try kallyas today! more info / download demo fitness club fitness club is a youthful and responsive wordpress health and fitness website theme. it’s a solid toolkit for developing awesome modern websites. packed to the brim with plugins and widgets, fitness club requires no coding at all. with awesome template pages and demos, your website will be ready to go live overnight. fitness club makes customization intuitive through the wordpress customizer. with its powerful customization settings, branding and styling is a breeze. tons of powerful shortcodes expand what you can do with your every page. they’ve been tailored to showcase health and fitness services with ease. yoga and ballet studios, gyms and fitness centers, fitness club is great for them all. visualizer plugin support lets you embed google charts right into your pages. that way you can inform your potential customers in detail about your offerings. fitness club includes a lightning-fast builder for all your layout customization needs. awesome portfolio shortcodes let you showcase your services in static pages or blog posts. multiple header layouts include sticky variants and more under the hood. fitness club is great for personal trainer websites as well. fitness club is the perfect theme for all your fitness website needs. try fitness club today! more info / download demo leadengine leadengine is everything! you will truly be impressed by this tool that helps you hammer out high-standards following websites for all your sports activities and other whatnots. it is also worth mentioning that leadengine is a wordpress fitness theme for gym centers, crossfit and any other indoor and outdoor exercises. the demo, leadengine comes with, is clean and straightforward to deliver fantastic user experience at all times. doesn’t that make you feel strong already? at least it provides the comfortability you need if you are new to developing a website. leadengine does not require any prior coding or design skills for everyone to use it to its full potential. create a strong first impression with the full-width slider and hover effects and benefit from the daily schedule leadengine has implemented into the layout. pricing tables, online store, clients testimonials and google maps are all also part of the package. more info / download demo fitness fitness is a clean and responsive wordpress gym and yoga multipurpose website theme. this theme is an intuitive resource for building powerful modern websites in no time at all. you also don’t need to write a line of coding with fitness. with incredible shortcodes honed for the fitness industry, fitness does it all. moreover, you can build customer trust with moving testimonials in tons of styles. deploy informative showcases illustrating your services and product packages. functional blog templates let you reach out and engage with your audience. the drag and drop wpbakery page builder also simplifies most website building tasks. the revolution slider allows you to keep your audience dazzled and interested. fitness also includes many color schemes, attractive animations and seamless visual effects. furthermore, you can embed videos and sharp, tech-savvy features powered by html5 and less css3. modern capabilities are plentiful within fitness, and easy to drop into the fray. also, customize them through the advanced admin panel with ease and speed. anything from accordions to buttons is just a simple click away. additionally, with the woocommerce ecommerce plugin suite, you can integrate potent commercial features too. finally, market your products and services right off your website with simplicity and effectivity. give fitness a go today, and find out! more info / download demo topfit are you starting a fitness or a gym facility? if so, make sure your marketing is right with a dope website. to achieve outstanding results, topfit is the wordpress fitness theme that will do the trick. it contains six jaw-dropping index page samples which you can use however you see them fit your needs best. either you use them out of the box or you perform additional customization tweaks, the outcome will surely be a killer fitness page. topfit as well includes all sorts of goodies like bmi calculator, class timetable and many more internal page layouts for your convenience. indeed, topfit follows all the modern web and tech practices to ensure your page stands the test of time. it is responsive, flexible, in tune with web browsers and retina screens. topfit also provides loads of custom widgets and shortcodes which you can play around with. have your place full at all times thanks to the outstanding website you are about to bring into being with topfit. more info / download demo bridge fitnesses, gyms, personal trainers and all the rest in the fitness and health business, the time has come for you to step up your game and make an epic difference. with bridge as your go-to wordpress fitness theme, you can now take your business to new heights and help even more students and potential customers get in shape and maintain their toned bodies. even if you are selling equipment and supplements, you can do that too with bridge and the woocommerce extension. being a multi-purpose tool, bridge gives you a chance to shine online exactly how you want. no need to play by the rules either. get your hands on bridge and you can do so much more in regards to promoting your fitness business and make it huge. for the quickest website launch, install bridge’s fitness demo and go from there. you will win unquestionably. more info / download demo etalon etalon is a practical and highly customizable wordpress theme. it is focused on businesses on the industry sector and its need for improvement. to help on this, you have 15 different demos to create basically anything from scratch. etalon offers demos specialized on fitness and all related to indoors training. some highlights include special training programs, staff members bio and equipment shops. all commercial aspects go through woocommerce for a easy high quality performance. etalon also provides on all versions, testimony pages from clients to comment. portfolio pages and even the possibility to set a blog are at disposal. showcase all the benefits of following the fit life! etalon is powered up too with fast performance, seo friendly structure and pixel perfect quality. it has a very responsive layout that makes it adaptable too screens and browsers. posts can be uploaded in many 8 different formats including videos. you get to show complete exercise routines and talk about diets on your blog. set galleries with slider revolution or lightbox premium sliders. giver everything your touch with countless customizations: movable headers, widgets, unlimited portfolio pages. get this awesome design and save yourself 118$ worth of awesome plugins! you just can’t go wrong with it. train with etalon! more info / download demo revolution revolution is one of the best wordpress fitness themes out there. due to its multi-functionality, you can quickly alter the theme to your business needs and grow above and beyond. in the revolution kit, you will even find an exclusive demo which is entirely dedicated to gym and fitness centers. go ahead and see its live preview to understand best what revolution is capable of. in short, you will not have a single issue using it for your business needs and requirements. on scroll content load, clean and straightforward web design, weekly workout schedule, parallax effect and social media buttons, these are just a few of the many features revolution treats you to. additionally, you are in good hands if you go with revolution and create a website for your gym facility. attract new sports enthusiasts to your building and let them attend your amazing programs that they will never want to miss. more info / download demo norebro norebro is a fresh and dynamic wordpress creative multipurpose website theme. this theme is an advanced toolkit for creative webmasters looking for the full package. get the premium wpbakery page builder, slider revolution and acf pro plugins with norebro. they’ll also make the website building process a swift, painless ordeal. with 30 curated demo websites, norebro can tackle the needs of almost any business. moreover, an intuitive, coding-free visual process lets you craft unique, handsome pages in minutes. fitness centers, yoga studios, gyms and related ventures are a natural fit for norebro. with a ton of creative portfolio styles, make a memorable showcase of your services. endless layouts, colors, fonts and animations combine to produce awesome pages. introduce your staff, and deploy gorgeous parallax video sections and more. norebro lets you show off the best features of your fitness website in a stunning style. make an impression, with norebro! more info / download demo levelup levelup is a fresh and responsive wordpress creative multipurpose website theme. this theme is a simple but powerful website building toolkit. webmasters with or without previous development experience can accomplish awesome things. levelup is well-suited for both personal and professional applications. with a multitude of demos and templates, levelup has something for every need. over 60 different predesigned, creative layouts are within reach, saving tons of time. set up shop online overnight with sleek, seamless websites, no coding required. that’s why fitness industry websites love levelup. it furnishes them with a fresh framework for attracting clients and customers. informative pages and convenient shortcodes are also a few clicks away at any time. moreover, the wpbakery page builder makes layout customization a breeze. furthermore, the royal and revolution sliders keep things interesting and your audience captivated. additionally, introduce your classes and schedules easily with powerful shortcodes. also, let your audience meet your staff, trainers and consultants. also, handy geolocation capabilities allow people to make their way to your physical location. social media integration provides you with easy ways to get your services noticed. tons of header and logo options make branding intuitive and simple. built on bootstrap, levelup is responsive and mobile-friendly to the core. check out levelup today! more info / download demo prowess express creativity and get the ball rolling with prowess. it is one of the best wordpress fitness themes in terms of enabling you to publish a professional athletic website while you jog. it includes a wide variety of templates that are associated with wellness, giving you a 100% assurance that this theme showcases your works and services in the best possible way. you are free to create everything, thanks to its very simple drag and drop platform. it also has seo features to boost your online presence from the get-go. customer satisfaction is, of course, a top priority. in brief, prowess comes with nine home pages, bmi calculator, free timetable plugin and all the additional and highly practical internal sections. use prowess out of the box or improve it with your branding needs, no matter what, the outcome will be a spectacular one. more info / download demo gimox with all the goodness that gimox brings to the table, it makes it one of the best wordpress fitness themes available on the market. it only takes three predefined demos to take care of the users when crafting their dream websites. on top of that, gimox is also coupled with the wpbakery drag and drop page builder, allowing everyone to modify the default look however they fancy. still, this is just the beginning of all the amazingness that gimox delivers to all its users. in the bundle, you will find more than eighty ready-made blocks, timetables, slider revolution, css3 animations, portfolio layouts and plenty more. if you are ready to step things up and stand out from the masses, use gimox for your fitness or gym facility, and benefit from the dope outcome. more info / download demo mv richard five homes and five header styles are some of the goodies that mv richard treats you to out of the box. in short, this best wordpress fitness theme gets things moving forward in a little breeze. even if you have no experience, you will still see epic success with mv richard. the amazing and highly practical king composer pro builder allows you to make improvements and corrections to the tool without touching the code. that said, you can freely customize and adjust the look of mv richard, so it matches your style precisely. install the demo of choice with a single click and start making moves already. yes, kicking off a new project is that simple with mv richard. the layout is highly flexible, adapting to smartphones, tablets and desktops like a dream. mv richard also includes psd files, slider revolution, footer widgets and child theme. make noise with mv richard now. more info / download demo vup fitness centers can greatly benefit from impressive and always improving vup. this wordpress fitness theme is packed with page layouts and features that will do you well. the design of the tool is very clean and minimal, ensuring a smooth experience browsing through your content. speaking of experience, vup is also mobile-ready and cross-browser compatible. no matter where they come from, vup performs at the highest degree at all times. when it comes to amenities, vup rocks loads of them. from pricing plans, mt galleries and instagram feed to online shop section, blog, classes grid and convenient timetable, vup makes sure you have it all at your fingertips. and if you ever find yourself wanting to customize vup, you can do it with the drag and drop page editor, wpbakery. more info / download demo maruthi in this day and age where people are preoccupied with work, they forget to take care of their well-being. if you are promoting a cause to get them back in shape, then maruthi is the best platform to partner with. as the best wordpress fitness theme, it guides you in opening a portal of information to these people. it has tons of gorgeous layouts that catch the eye. engage users with blogs, articles, events and more and encourage them to take action. integrate health-related widgets like a bmi calculator to elevate your website and other goodies which are also part of the amazing maruthi package. whether you are creating a gym website or wanting to organize a yoga class, you can fully rely on maruthi’s spectacular features. besides, you do not really need to be tech-savvy and still get a chance to appear professional on the web with your fitness center from the initial launch. more info / download demo hermosa hermosa is a sleek and effective wordpress fitness, health, beauty, and yoga website theme. also, this theme has been constructed as a single stop shop solution for webmasters in the health and beauty service sector industry looking to establish a website for their business. uniquely suited to work with fitness center and gym websites, hermosa combines not only a subtle, minimal and soothing visual styling but a number of niche market features such as class scheduling, pricing tables, advanced testimonials capabilities, gorgeous product or service information widgets, special posts for your trainers, classes, and much more than meets the eye in this powerful theme. add to that a wealth of premium plugins built-in to maximize what hermosa can do for you, such as the wpbakery page builder and revolution slider, providing you with professional quality custom layouts and slideshows, the woocommerce and mailchimp plugins, furnishing your website into your own online outlet for your services or products and allowing you to keep in touch with a massive online subscription audience with a single click, and the fantastic wpml plugin, letting your website reach across language barriers with complete seamlessness. give hermosa a go today! more info / download demo lemon without a shadow of a doubt, lemon is one of the best wordpress fitness themes that you can currently find on the market. with the wide collection of different demos, you can easily find the one style that fits your taste best. indeed, lemon works great out of the box; however, you can also modify it and fine-tune the default look. you do not have to be tech-savvy to be able to succeed at establishing a website with lemon. every user can do it, whether a beginner or an expert. some of the features include slider revolution, sticky navigation, filterable gallery, before/after slider and a full-blown contact page. in addition to that, you can also sell stuff with lemon and start a compelling blog. the options are very many, making sure you efficiently get the most out of lemon. more info / download demo gym x gym x is a wordpress theme for fitness gym and sports. its goal is to present fitness spaces and products as well as a comfortable site for fitness fans. additionally, its design has lots of fonts and color theme options to make everybody feel in the working out zone. you also have four columns available to put on images and videos. for criteria searches on different sites, you can use the megamenu on the top. gym x features wpml translating plugin to make you at ease when reading instructions. if what you want is to organize clients’ time or your own fitness dedicated time, you got it! gym x has a set up schedule to select workout styles for both indoors and outdoors training. you will also find healthcare advices, and a specialized blog. gym x has easy-going responsive theme and headings with wpbakery page builder plugin included. it also comes with google maps integrated. moreover, you can have a lifestyle forum or a trainer-client matching site. go from training and experts portfolios’, to locating the perfect gym. gym x works for all level of commitment from aficionados to master trainers. it is also compatible with the most popular browsers. need help getting set? gym x will provide the best customer support. bring it on! more info / download demo energy energy is a modern, flexible, potent and dexterous wordpress business theme, capable of impeccably creating a great number of business websites for a wide variety of purposes and with intended audiences both large and small, but specially designed for the needs of gymnasiums, health clubs, spas and fitness centers, and any other health and sport-related business website. this theme is also fast loading and responsive by nature, displaying seamlessly across all platforms and devices, maximizing the amount of potential customers that will receive your products and services’ information and related content. additionally, energy is lively and and supercharged. energy engages your audience with attractive, interactive features that will keep them glued to the screen, captivated by every bit of your content. energy can be fully customized to extreme degrees thanks to the extensive zoom framework options, while the dynamic homepage builder lets you add innumerable useful, convenient widgets to your homepage, as well as dramatic full-screen sliders that show off your most visually impressive, important, featured products, services, facilities, classes, trainers and more, in retina ready full visual glory. lastly, choose from two headers and simplified color selection options to make it your own. finally, make an impact in your audience’s mind with energy, and start bringing in more business today! more info / download demo you you is a colorful and fresh wordpress multipurpose fitness theme. this nifty tool combines the magic of the premium wpbakery page builder and revolution slider plugins to simplify layout design and customization, but also provides 10 beautiful, professional-quality website demos for you to work with, as a template that takes you and your website where you want to go. you is also a perfect theme for gyms, fitness centers, health centers and spas, and all sorts of fitness service related websites. with its luminous fitness demo website, you provides a sleek, readymade framework for you to customize and brand to your liking, equipped with features such as woocommerce to market your services or products directly off your website easily through an online shop, or professional pricing tables, for you to break down your services to potential clients in handsome style. you’s powerful seo enhancement will let you swoop right into the top ranks at all the engines. get you now! more info / download demo athlete athlete is a very pliable and malleable theme for fitness and sports websites that has been constructed to be a fast loading and streamlined all-inclusive alternative for webmasters with no prior coding experience or seasoned experts alike to effortlessly set up their own amazing, functional and powerful wordpress websites within minutes, never writing a line of code. with athlete’s 7 predesigned, readymade homepage versions, you’ll have a great looking website within a few clicks, and complete woocommerce integration out of the box means you will be raking in the dough from marketing your fitness or sports related products and services, such as memberships, classes and more within minutes of the 1 click installation process. athlete includes a sophisticated, built-in system for tracking and managing classes and trainers right from your website, as well as powerful plugins like the wpbakery page builder for easy page building and eventon and addon included for you to easily handle class schedules and coordinate fitness or sports events, matches or any sort of gathering. more info / download demo entrepreneur entrepreneur is a beautiful and customizable wordpress theme for small businesses including gyms and fitness centers it’s also a gorgeous, uncluttered and intuitive theme that has been built with an understated visual language that can be effortlessly customized with advanced theme options to perfectly lend itself to just about any sort of website out there, making it quite pliable and nimble, and the wpbakery page builder plugin makes constructing your own layouts and designs from template or scratch an easy, breezy matter. the tool most notably includes a powerful, fully functional and extremely convenient booking and scheduling management system, which allows the automation of these processes through your website within a couple clicks after the simplified 1 click installation, as well as built-in, professional-quality contact forms for you to easily convert your visitors into customers. entrepreneur is perfect for businesses that need to manage times, locations and dates in order to effectively market their services, which makes it a fantastic theme for fitness centers, fitness enthusiasts, fitness groups or organizations, or any sort of group of people coming together to work out or practice sports. more info / download demo asana asana is a clean and crisp wordpress sport, yoga and fitness theme. the theme has tons of preconfigured, readymade page templates for quickly fleshing out functional and complete fitness, sports, gym or training center websites that look and feel professional. this theme also includes handsome and attractive fullscreen capabilities, which make asana’s tasteful and fresh color palettes stand out and shine. asana has been visually designed according to google’s material design philosophy, creating a wonderfully mobile-friendly, flat and intuitive navigational experience that is a big hit across all demographics and deploys a modern visual language that users of any background are familiar with. powerful features like grid layouts and the revolution slider are integrated for power and functionality, while a woocommerce enabled shopping cart and an events calendar system let your users schedule and book classes and pay for them, right on your website! more info / download demo justfit justfit is a website theme that offers amazing flexibility and quality design. it is optimized for search engines, increasing your chances of getting featured on the first page of search engine results. it is ideal for users who wish to promote healthful living and an active lifestyle. all your pages can be displayed on the screens of mobile devices, with crystal clear precision. this is due to the fact that justfit is fully responsive and adaptable. your site will be translatable, given that this theme has multilingual support. it can be used on more than one web page, as you expand your business and your customer base. your primary source of information and support will be the support forum. if you experience any issues, be sure to email the development team. fully customizable, this theme caters to creative people. the options panel is very intuitive, facilitating the personalization process. in addition, you can alter the code or designs by taking advantage of the photoshop psd files. although the support system does not cover third party plugins, you may incorporate most of them into your site. more info / download demo fitness zone fitness zone is a powerful theme that can effortlessly muscle the demands of all sorts of website archetypes, from personal portfolios to commercial websites or corporate blogs and more, but that has been specifically and narrowly constructed to be a complete full-set solution for the design, development and maintenance of sophisticated and modern fitness, gym and health websites of all kinds, sizes and scales. this theme not only comes packed with time-saving demo websites with complete inner pages so you can be up and running with your professional quality website within minutes, it also includes incredibly useful and relevant template pages like a workouts detail page with custom sidebar, video files or image galleries integrated, with shortcodes for adding workout steps easily and quickly. lastly, a powerful events calendar is built in. it ensures your customers don’t miss out on any of your classes or other fitness related gatherings. also, five different header styles are available for you to pick and choose your ideal looking fitness website. are you in the zone? more info / download demo launchkit launchkit is a beautiful and versatile fitness wordpress theme. it’s a sophisticated theme that has been created to satisfy the demands of several different website archetypes, from app landing pages to startups, from professional or personal portfolios to almost anything you can think of, when you combine launchkit’s multifaceted demo websites and template pages with the potent wpbakery page builder and the over 30 custom-developed components that have been packed along with launchkit, allowing you to do just about anything you want with your pages. complete woocommerce integration out of the box and a hearty helping of shortcodes that add all sorts of functionality make launchkit a perfect theme for designing, developing and maintaining beautiful and powerful, modern, cutting edge fitness websites. both gravity forms and contact form 7 will allow you to easily convert customers right on your launchkit fitness website, while beautiful sliders and impressive hardware-powered parallax visual sections and smooth scrolling effects will keep them engaged and interested. more info / download demo avada avada is built to match the needs of a multitude of various different websites. it ranges from commercial and corporate to personal and professional solutions, although uniquely suited for the purpose of establishing websites for yoga studios, fitness studios, beauty studios and wellness centers of all sorts. if your business provides customers with personal wellness services, avada is the theme for you. avada also includes multiple demos for you to start things off quick and easy. build these demos into your very own website with avada’s own fusion builder plugin, which, combined with advanced admin panel options, offers limitless possibilities for your website. smooth scrolling with parallax effects introduces your viewers to your content in an elegant fashion, while beautiful transitions and hover effects abounding among your provided image and product gallery templates. also, you can use this to provide videos of classes and sessions offered, convenient pricing structures and guides with included shortcodes, make use of hundreds of custom icons and icon fonts to catch your viewer’s’ eyes every time, relaxing fade-in and fade-out animations, peacefully dynamic menu, slider and footer options, endless widgets, avada really has it all. the only question is, is your business ready to handle avada? more info / download demo fitness – premium gym wordpress theme fitness is a dynamic responsive gym premium wordpress theme. this theme is built on bootstrap framework and crowded with useful features. also, it’s very easy to use and customize. furthermore, this theme comes with infinite color styles, custom widgets, touch & swipe enabled, revslider and many more. moreover, its responsive layout design helps your website adjust on different screen sizes. lastly, the developers optimized this theme for seo. more info / download demo gymbase gymbase is a modern metro style inspired gym fitness wordpress theme. it is minimalistic and fully responsive to look awesome on any device. it has a built-in content slider that is also responsive and supports various content types. also, gymbase has specially designed timetables, training classes and theme options to create your own professional fitness website. this is by far the most popular wordpress theme on this collection and we highly recommend it to anyone because thousands of users tested and proven this theme to deliver outstanding results for gyms and sports centers. more info / demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. crossfitfitnessgymhealthhealth clubsportswellnessyoga share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts best 30+ multi-concept wordpress themes to make your website stand out whether you are a small business or a large enterprise, a great website that is… amazing wordpress themes for a gift shop in this article, you will find a way to make a gift shop more efficient.… 28 professional wordpress multi-purpose themes for corporate websites 2020 if you are looking to build a modern corporate website you might want to have… 10 most alluring travel blog wordpress themes to start a travel website and have fun are you struggling with the idea of how to grow your tour business? what’s your… 30 best multilingual wordpress themes 2019 to benefit your business no matter what niche you are in, reaching as many potential customers as possible is… 44 drag & drop wpbakery page builder (visual composer) wordpress themes 2020 it's probably an amazing feeling to be the owners of wpbakery page builder. a wordpress… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 15 easy digital download wordpress themes to sell downloadable products 2020 next post: 28 best wordpress themes for musicians, singers and artists 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×