wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (reviews & performance tests) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (reviews & performance tests) last updated on january 30th, 2020 by editorial staff 908 shares share tweet share pin are you looking for the best woocommerce hosting to create your online store? choosing the best hosting provider is one of the most important decision you’ll make for your ecommerce business. a typical shared hosting provider may not always be a good choice for woocommerce. that’s because you will need more resources, ssl certificate, and woocommerce-centric support platform. in this guide, we will help you choose the best woocommerce hosting for your online store. at wpbeginner, we have helped more than 100,000+ users start their websites. as the largest unofficial wordpress resource site and years of experience with hosting services, we know the importance of choosing the best woocommerce hosting for an ecommerce startup. our goal is to offer insights on things you need to consider when choosing a woocommerce hosting company. to make the process easier, we have also hand-picked the best woocommerce hosting providers. these are the top ecommerce hosting companies that consistently rank high due to their quality, performance, and excellent customer support. what is woocommerce hosting? for woocommerce hosting you need an optimized hosting solution equipped to handle woocommerce stores out of the box. woocommerce is the world’s most popular ecommerce platform. it is used by millions of small and large businesses all over the world. it runs on wordpress, so you will obviously need a hosting provider that supports wordpress. but that’s not all. you will need a domain name (e.g. wpbeginner.com) and an ssl certificate to accept online payments. you will also need the back-end servers to be optimized for woocommerce for better performance. as your online store grows, you will have to consider how to handle that traffic with no downtime. a good woocommerce hosting company should offer you all these things that you’ll not get with a typical shared wordpress hosting account. to sweeten the deal, you will also get support from staff trained to deal with woocommerce websites on a daily basis. the idea behind woocommerce hosting is to offer a hassle free way to set up your online store. this allows you the freedom to focus on growing your business. think of it as a platform designed specifically for your ecommerce store with an army of hosting engineers working in the background. pros and cons of woocommerce hosting woocommerce hosting sounds amazing but it has its own advantages and disadvantages. before you make a decision, take a look at the pros and cons of woocommerce hosting. advantages of woocommerce hosting woocommerce ready – woocommerce hosting companies offer pre-installed woocommerce with a ready to use design to go with. high performance – speed is not just important for user experience but also for seo. woocommerce hosting platforms offer faster load times for smoother ecommerce transactions. security – woocommerce hosting plans come with ssl certificate. this adds a security layer around data transferring from customer’s browser to your website. woocommerce support we all need help now and then. with woocommerce hosting you get help from actual woocommerce experts via email, live chat, or phone. hosting features apart from woocommerce specific features, you get all the usual hosting features like unmetered bandwidth, huge disk space, email accounts, and more. now you would probably think that this all sounds so amazing, what are the disadvantages? disadvantages of woocommerce hosting price – prices for woocommerce hosting plans are slightly higher than average shared wordpress hosting plans. pre-installed software – some advanced users may want to install woocommerce on their own. pre-installed software may also include woocommerce ready designs and bonus extensions that some users may not need. maintenance – not all woocommerce hosting plans offer automatic updates. you will still need to set up automated backups and install updates. now that you have looked at the pros and cons of woocommerce hosting, you are probably still wondering if its the right solution for you? when do you need woocommerce hosting? if you are a beginner and don’t intend to sell more than a couple of items, then you can go for a shared wordpress hosting account. we recommend using bluehost, they are one of the officially recommended wordpress hosting companies. if you are a small business with intention to open a fully functional online store, then you would be better off with woocommerce hosting. particularly if you don’t know the technical side of installing and setting up wordpress and woocommerce, then choosing the right woocommerce hosting will save you a lot of time. as a business owner you have the option to go for a limited shared hosting plan and then hire someone to manage technical stuff or learn things as you go. this will take up your time and you’ll probably end up paying more than you expected. your second option is to go on the hassle free route with a woocommerce hosting plan. you’ll have a blazing fast online store ready to go with no technical skills required. in the end, it comes down to your own priorities. if keeping it low cost is most important factor then you can go for regular wordpress hosting. on the other hand, if you want to start selling quickly, then the cost of woocommerce hosting makes more sense and is easily justifiable. now that you have read all about choosing the woocommerce hosting, it is time for you to make the decision. as a wordpress resource site we have had the opportunity to work with several top hosting companies in the industry. after having helped 100,000+ users and years of experience, our founder syed balkhi have personally hand-picked the most well-reputed and top woocommerce hosting companies for you. each of these woocommerce hosting companies offer excellent performance, superior infrastructure, and knowledgeable support. we give each of them a perfect 5 out of 5 star rating. check out the list of best woocommerce hosting providers. best woocommerce hosting providers 3,926 reviews sitegroundsavings siteground is one of the most popular and highest rated hosting provider in the wordpress community. they provide unique in-house wordpress speed and security solutions to make your site as fast and secure as possible. they are known for the best 24/7 support in the industry which is why they’re an official ‘wordpress’ and ‘woocommerce’ recommended hosting provider. siteground features include pre-installed woocommerce, free ssl, automatic upgrades, built-in wp caching, cdn, one-click staging and git version control. they are also one of the few companies offering location specific hosting with 3 data centers in usa, europe, and asia. on top of all this, they have а special 70% discount for wpbeginner readers. 299 reviews bluehostsavings bluehost is rated the #1 web hosting provider for small businesses. they are an official ‘wordpress’ and ‘woocommerce’ recommended hosting provider. with bluehost, you never have to worry about your website being slow even when there is a lot of traffic. their 24/7 expert support is always there to help via phone, email, or live chat. on top of that, they are offering wpbeginner users an exclusive 51% off discount, a free domain, free dedicated ip address, free ssl for secure payments, pre-installed woocommerce, and a free 2 hour setup call with a dedicated woocommerce expert. 64 reviews wp enginesavings wpengine is vip wordpress hosting. their hassle-free hosting offers fast and robust servers that can handle anything. your website is practically hacker proof, and their mind-blowing customer service makes you feel like king. they offer automatic security updates, daily backups, one-click restore points, automatic caching, top-tier security, one-click staging area, and more. wpengine is like having an army of wordpress experts on your side for assistance. brands like htc, foursquare, soundcloud, balsamiq, and many others use wpengine for their wordpress hosting (just sayin'). if you are a business who do not want to deal with the technical side of running your blog, then wpengine is the solution for you. bonus: now you get all 36+ premium studiopress themes and genesis framework for free with all wp engine accounts. 17 reviews liquid websavings started in 1997, liquid web has become the leader in managed vps and cloud hosting. they are famous for their fast and high quality support, known as ‘heroic support’. all liquid web hosting servers are highly tuned for speed, performance, and security making it a completely hassle-free hosting solution. their new managed wordpress hosting option includes staging sites, automatic updates, image compression tools, free ssl, powerful developer tools, and an intuitive dashboard to manage all your sites in one place. there’s a reason why top companies like motorola, red bull, espn, audi, and fedex use liquid web. 79 reviews hostgatorsavings hostgator hosts over 8 million domains and is one of the most popular web hosts in the industry. with 1-click wordpress installation, 99.9% up time guarantee, and 24/7 support, it’s a smart choice for every store owner. we consider them among best web hosting for businesses. they’re offering our users an exclusive 62% off discount along with a free ssl certificate, and a free domain name. best woocommerce hosting comparison (2020) now after reviewing the top woocommerce hosting companies listed above, you may be wondering which one of them is best for your online store? to help you choose the best woocommerce hosting for your ecommerce website, we have created a few additional resources: woocommerce hosting quiz detailed woocommerce hosting performance comparison side-by-side woocommerce hosting feature comparison the goal here is to help you choose the right hosting company because choosing the wrong provider can cost you more money and headache in the future. woocommerce hosting quiz we know that all this information can be quite overwhelming. usually we get tons of emails from our users asking for personalized recommendation on which woocommerce hosting is suitable for their online store. to speed this up, we have created a woocommerce hosting recommendation engine. this questionnaire will help you decide which is the best woocommerce hosting company based on your particular needs. all you have to do is accurately answer the questions in the widget below: if you still want to get personalized help in choosing a woocommerce hosting company, then feel free to drop us a message using our contact form. one of our team members will get back to you within 24 hours. detailed woocommerce hosting performance comparison the main reason why wpbeginner users trust us is because our reviews are based on actual usage, real-time tests, and accurate data. instead of using the information provided by hosting companies, we actually sign up for each woocommerce hosting provider and thoroughly test their services. we use professional third-party benchmarking tools like pingdom, loadimpact, and bitcatcha. we run thorough tests for performance and reliability of each company, so we can help you choose the best woocommerce hosting for your business. for accurate testing across all woocommerce hosting companies, we create a sample website on each hosting provider. after that we install a default theme and fill the site with dummy data including images and media. this way our tests resemble an average website. here is our step by step testing process: first, we use pingdom, an industry leading website speed test service, to measure our sample website speed across multiple woocommerce hosting companies. next, we use load impact service to send virtual users (vu) to each website to see how the hosting server would handle increased requests from multiple connections at once. this helps us see how the individual woocommerce hosting company would perform during peak traffic. last but not least, we use bitcatcha service to test server response times across numerous geographical locations including united states, london, singapore, sao paulo, india, sydney, and japan. this helps us decide which woocommerce hosting is best for which geographical location. now that you know our test process, let’s compare the performance of the best woocommerce hosting companies. 1. siteground siteground is one of the top-rated hosting company in the woocommerce community. they provide unique in-house performance optimization and security which is why they’re an officially recommended woocommerce hosting provider. wpbeginner site is also hosted on siteground. here are the results from our siteground performance tests: as you can see in the test result, our siteground test site loaded in less than a second (649 ms to be precise) for a server in dallas, texas. our test site is faster than 95% of tested sites, which is incredible. after that, we ran the load impact test on siteground servers. we gradually built up to 100 unique visitors at once to see how the server would handle increased requests from multiple connections at once. in this chart, the blue line indicates the number of active virtual users on the site. the green line is the server load time. siteground performed almost consistently except for a spike at 50 users on the site. it quickly recovered and page load time remained steadily low even with more users. next, we ran response time test, we used bitcatcha to test more accurate server response time from various geographical locations. our siteground test site performed really well in the united states and all other locations except japan. if your audience is in asia, then you can ask siteground to move you to their asia-pacific servers to remedy this. in our detailed siteground review, we also evaluated their customer support, features, and pricing. after our analysis, we find siteground to be a great option for woocommerce hosting for startups because their support is incredibly helpful. pros: best wordpress support, good uptime, fast speed, and free ssl. pros: officially recommended by wordpress and woocommerce pros: free site migration cons: no free domain and gogeek plan is slightly expensive get started with siteground 2. bluehost bluehost is one of the largest hosting companies in the world and an officially recommended woocommerce hosting provider. here are the results from our bluehost performance tests: as you can see in the screenshot above, our test site loaded in less than two seconds. that’s faster than 85% of all tested websites. considering that the test site wasn’t using any caching plugins or performance optimization tips, this result is very good. next, we ran the load impact test on bluehost site. we gradually built up to 100 unique visitors at once to see how the server would handle increased requests from multiple connections at once. here is the result screenshot: in this chart, the blue line indicates number of active virtual users on the site, and the green line is the server load time. as you can see the server load remained stable through out the test even at peak traffic. in the next phase, we used bitcatcha to test server response time more accurately from different geographical locations. response times for our bluehost test site were exceptionally great in the united states loading under a fraction of a second. response time in other locations was a bit higher but still under less than a second. if your target customers are in the united states, then this would hugely benefit your woocommerce store. we also evaluated their customer support, features, and pricing in our detailed bluehost review. after this thorough analysis, we believe that bluehost is a great woocommerce hosting provider to start your online store. pros: 50% off woocommerce hosting + free domain + free ssl pros: officially recommended by woocommerce and wordpress pros: pre-installed woocommerce site cons: sometimes support can be slow get started with bluehost 3. wp engine wp engine is one of the most popular managed wordpress and woocommerce hosting provider. they offer in-house performance optimization, managed updates. 1-click staging environment, and more. here are the results from our wp engine performance tests: as you can see, our test site loaded in less than a second for a server in new york city, ny. that’s faster than 96% of all tested sites. considering that we didn’t need to install any performance optimization this result is quite good. but how does wp engine performs under traffic? we ran the load impact test on wp engine server where we gradually built up to 100 unique visitors at once to see how the server would handle increased requests from multiple connections at once. the green line represents page load time and the blue line represents number of users on the site. as you can see, our test site performed really well up to 80 users, after that it started to slow down. as you can see in the chart, that wp engine server performance remained steady throughout the test as the numbers of users increased. after the load impact test, we used bitcatcha to test more accurate server response time from various geographical locations. as you can see in the results, wp engine server response time remained under less than half a second on all geographic locations. it was particularly great in the united states. in our detailed wp engine review, we also evaluated their customer support, features, and pricing. after our analysis, we find wp engine to be the best option for managed wordpress and woocommerce hosting. pros: optimized for wordpress and woocommerce with a stable managed hosting platform pros: 1-click staging environment, free ssl, and integrated support to add cdn service as an addon pros: excellent customer support and a custom hosting control panel cons: prices are slightly higher for a starter woocommerce store, but totally worth the $$$. get started with wp engine 4. liquid web liquid web is another popular choice among the woocommerce and wordpress community. they offer multiple levels of woocommerce hosting plans including vps, cloud sites, managed, and dedicated plans with 24/7 support. here are the test results from our liquid web performance tests: as you can see in the test result, our liquid web test site loaded in less than a second for a server in san jose, california. that means our site is faster than 91% of tested sites. next, we ran the load impact test on liquid web servers where we gradually built up to 100 unique visitors at once to see how the server would handle increased requests from multiple connections at once. the blue line is the number of active virtual users on the site, and the green line is the server load time. as you can see the server load remained stable through out the test even at peak traffic. after that, we ran response times test to see how fast liquid web servers respond to requests from different geographic locations. as you can see in the results, liquid web test site responded with in less than a second. the response time was particularly higher in the united states. in our detailed liquid web review, we also evaluated their customer support, features, and pricing. after our analysis, we find liquid web to be a reliable option for woocommerce hosting for all size of online stores. pros: powerful managed cloud hosting that is incredibly fast. pros: fully managed servers, ssl included, excellent support. pros: easy to scale as your business grows. great for enterprise. cons: price is higher than shared woocommerce hosting providers get started with liquid web 5. hostgator hostgator is one of the top web hosting companies. they host over 8 million domains. wpbeginner website is hosted on hostgator dedicated servers, and we have been using them since 2007 for our various websites. here are the results from our hostgator performance tests: as you can see in the screenshot, our test site loaded in just under a second for a server in dallas, texas. that’s faster than 94% of all tested sites. considering that our test site wasn’t using any caching plugins or performance optimization tips, this result is great. next, we wanted to test how does hostgator perform during peak traffic? we ran the load impact test on hostgator servers. we gradually built up to 100 unique visitors at once to see how the server would handle increased requests from multiple connections at once. in this chart the green line indicates page load time and the blue line represents number of users on the site. as you can see, our test site performed really well up to 80 users, after that it started to slow down. it is quite normal for shared hosting environments as you share server resources with other sites on the server. as your woocommerce store grows you’ll need to move to vps or managed hosting providers. next, we tested the server response time from different geographic locations. we used bitcatcha to test more accurate server response time. as you can see our test site responded in less than a second for all locations. in the united states, the response time was merely 37 ms. we also evaluated hostgator’s customer service, pricing, and features in our detailed hostgator review. pros: fast and reliable with good support pros: wpbeginner website is hosted with hostgator pros: free site migration cons: no free domain and renewal fees are higher * note: you will need to use the business plan to get private ssl which is needed to accept online payments. get started with hostgator best woocommerce hosting (quick recap) now that you have compared the performance results of the top woocommerce hosting companies, you need to decide which is the best for your ecommerce business. to make it easier, we have created a table with a side-by-side feature list, so you can easily compare the best woocommerce hosting companies. hosting cost free domain free ssl 1-click install siteground $3.95/mo no yes yes bluehost $3.95/mo yes yes yes wp engine $20/mo no yes no liquid web $19/mo no yes yes hostgator (business) $5.68/mo no yes yes in our in-depth woocommerce hosting review, we believe that if you are looking to start an online store, then bluehost is your best option. their plans are affordable, include free domain and free ssl for $6.95 per month. by far the best value. if you have a mid-to-large ecommerce store, then you should go with wp engine because they offer a completely hassle free experience. while the cost is slightly higher, it’s worth the money. in fact, you can’t go wrong with any of the best woocommerce hosting companies that we have compared above. they all offer blazing fast servers, great uptime, excellent support, and prices for different budgets. woocommerce hosting faqs having helped thousands of users, we have heard just about every hosting question. here are answers to some of the most frequently asked questions about woocommerce hosting: do i need woocommerce hosting to start an online store? if you are building an online store with woocommerce, then you’ll need woocommerce hosting. hosting is the place where all your website’s files are stored. every website and online store uses a hosting provider. can i install woocommerce on my shared wordpress hosting account? yes, you can. however, shared wordpress hosting plans are designed to cater the needs of small business and personal websites. woocommerce is a transactional app that needs more resources particularly when you have more than a hundred customers on your website. this is why you need a woocommerce hosting plan, so that you can run your online store without any downtime and at faster speeds. are there any free woocommerce hosting providers? none that we are aware of. even if you find a free woocommerce hosting, we will strongly recommend that you stay away from them. in most cases, free hosting providers put advertisements on your website. they may even distribute malware to your customers. last but not least, they can shut down your website at anytime without any notification. avoid anyone who offers to give you free hosting, specially if you are serious about your site. how much does it cost to build an online store with woocommerce? the total cost of your woocommerce store is calculated based on hosting costs, domain name, and ssl certificate. the cost of maintaining your online store grows as your business grows. we have created a detailed guide on how much does it cost to build a website, jump to the ecommerce section for tips on keeping your costs down. i already purchased a domain. can i use it with my woocommerce hosting? yes, you can. once you purchase a domain name, you are free to use it with any hosting company. all you need to do is go to your domain settings and point its dns to your woocommerce hosting company. each of our top woocommerce hosting companies have step by step instructions on how to do that. see our guide on the difference between domain name and web hosting. do i need to buy domain and woocommerce hosting from same company? no you don’t. you can buy a domain name from one company and woocommerce hosting from another. however, it does help to get them from the same company as you will not have to change dns settings, and you will be able to manage your domain and hosting under the same dashboard. do i need to buy any addons when signing up for woocommerce hosting? during the sign up process, some hosting companies will offer to sell you add-on services. you can safely uncheck them as they would add to the cost of your hosting bill. later on, if you feel you need one of these add-on services, then you can simply add them to your hosting plan from your account dashboard. how many customers can these woocommerce hosting companies handle? all hosting companies in our best woocommerce hosting list handle millions of pageviews every day. they are all equipped to handle smaller stores as well as large online stores even during peak holiday shopping traffic. the traffic your site can handle largely depends on the plan you choose. with shared woocommerce hosting providers like bluehost, siteground, and hostgator, your website will be able to handle 1,000 – 5,000 visitors a day with speed optimization. with managed hosting providers, you should be able to handle as much traffic as you need because their team would automatically scale your account as needed. do woocommerce hosting companies keep backups of my site? yes, many of them do. however, we don’t recommend relying on your hosting company’s backups. you must always create your own backups by using a wordpress backup plugin. can i change my woocommerce hosting later? yes, you can totally change your woocommerce hosting company if you are unhappy with them. most hosting companies offer migration services that you can utilize with minimum downtime. you can also move your website on your own, see our guide on how to move a wordpress site to new host. what are the best woocommerce hosting companies in your opinion? our three top choices for woocommerce hosting are: bluehost – best overall in terms of performance, price, and features. wp engine – best for large ecommerce sites who need top-notch performance, support, and scalability. siteground – best woocommerce hosting for growing businesses (use the gogeek plan). this last question is not by mistake. we still get this question even when we refer users to this guide. we hope that this guide helped you find the best woocommerce hosting for your online store. if you have a woocommerce hosting question that we didn’t cover, then please send us a message using our contact form. one of our team members will respond back within 24 hours. about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.