best custom website development company! 99%+ proven success think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 website development we designed, developed, and manage over 700 websites & web apps. get started now website development services web design wordpress development hubspot development drupal development custom development website maintenance website hosting why choose smartsites for website development experienced website development team we have developed professional websites for both small businesses and established companies. perfect harmony in design and performance outperform your competition by implementing the best website development tools and practices. get the performance you crave, and the efficiency you care about. stunning reviews hear what our clients have to say about our website development solutions! sleek & stunning websites thoughtfully designed and professionally developed for your business. our finished websites are aesthetically pleasing and can elevate your business to new heights. first-rate customer service smartsites prides itself on our world-class customer service. complete web development solutions your website will be developed from ground up. so, no premade templates! accredited website developers we are also well-versed in php, html5, js5, css3, and jquery. feature-rich we can implement a wide variety of features that offer the best website experiences for your visitors. full ownership you will enjoy complete control over your website. top rated website development clients rave about our award winning websites and web apps. we make the development process easy and deliver work that looks and functions beautifully. nathalie laitmon, partner the calendar group there is no project too small or too big for smartsites and melen's top team, as we came to find. ashley liquori, account manager pest elimination one of the best decisions i made was hiring smartsites to re-design my company website. rachel jakob, office manager midtown root canal we switched over to smartsites recently to create our website and have been very happy with our decision. lorenzo dimarchi, manager renato pizza masters the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. erik martin, owner pascack valley preferred anita, michael and the team did a great job on my website. i searched high and low for someone to deliver on my concept and they did! how smartsites performs website development in today's world, having a website is essential for any business' success. technical specification people & process how long does it take to develop a website? there are things we need our clients to provide before we can start developing a website. how quickly you respond and provide what is needed plays a big part in ensuring we work on your project on time. under normal circumstances, a website will take 3-6 weeks to design depending on how many pages a client need. what is the process of website development? discovery content preliminary design organization design revision implementation page content testing launch will my websites be mobile friendly? yes. we build websites that are mobile friendly. our designers use a method known as responsive design which allows the sites to work well on a wide variety of devices. in a world where consumers are using mobile devices like smartphones and tablets, they can easily access your website through their devices. what technologies do you normally build on? wordpress hubspot drupal custom can i make changes to my site after it is completed? yes. our web designers use open source technology to develop sites which allows clients with basic computer skills to make changes on their websites when they need to. however, our designers are always available to make changes for you if you need more complex changes to be done. i have a website – does it need to be updated? technology changes so quickly today and if we don’t keep up with those changes, then your business can suffer. you may have been in business for a short time, or a number of years, but does your website still represent you properly? are you fully up-to-date with the new gdpr law governing how you store and deal with a person’s data? if you have never heard of gdpr compliance, then you need our website development skills badly, just for this one issue! what information do you need from me? we will need a detailed brief from you, which will allow us to sketch, plan and create a mock-up design of your website. once we have a plan that we feel represents your business ethos and goal, we can analyze what elements will work best for your business and communicate with you for approval. we will also need to know how you treat and protect customer data in order to comply with the new gdpr initiative. get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha phone this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated after a nightmare experience with other marketing companies, i finally found a hard working group who actually know what they are doing. they handle all of my ads as and designed a website. business has doubled since we started. looking forward to more success. agape health wellness center dr. larry bennett view 100+ more testimonials alex really is excellent at marketing and since i have joined, our business has tripled this month. he really cares about his clients growth. being a new business growing my business slow and steady with smartsites is by far one of the wisest choices that i have made! lifestyle directives group shari wasserman view 100+ more testimonials i had a great experience working with smartsites and wouldn’t hesitate to recommend them. the level of customer service, marketing skills, and efficiency was beyond the scope of my expectations! perfect dashboard bartek jaz view 100+ more testimonials excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials they have a team approach that allows them to efficiently work on your projects. their methods of communication is efficient as well. in the midst of working on our project now and already impressed! i would suggest smart sites to anyone looking for an all around great web development company. easw andy holst view 100+ more testimonials mike and his team proved to be an invaluable resource. smartsites was there to ensure that the final product matched our vision perfectly. they take the time to learn their clients’ business inside and out, and are a key part of the team every step of the way. sharemoney steven taylor view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: services website development recent website development posts posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on february 25, 2020 5 key areas to think about before creating your company website read posted on february 16, 2020 clear the mess on your own cleaning business website read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect