menu weight loss healthy living supplements equipment resources home yoga best yoga terms and yoga words to help understand yoga 2019 best yoga terms and yoga words to help understand yoga 2019 abbey november 12, 2019 share pin yoga is one of the fastest-growing practices in the health and wellbeing industry. so many yoga terms and yoga words to learn and digest to get the best out of your class. here are fabfityou we have put together and list of the term to help your understanding. a, yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga wordsyoga words abhyasa practice – the act of practicing acharya teacher adwaita philosophy according to which there is no duality – only a singular state of consciousness agni fire agnisar kriya one of the shatkarmas (cleansing practices) -intestinal cleansing aham ego ahimsa non-violence, non-injury – one of the yamas of ashtanga yoga ajapa japa spontaneous repetition of ‘soham’ mantra ajna chakra energy center located behind the forehead, also called psychic centre – one of the seven energy centers akasha ether, space anahata chakra energy center located in the heart region; also called pranic centre – fourth of the seven energy centers. ananda bliss, ecstasy antar inner, internal antar dhauti internal yoga cleansing (shatkarma) techniques antar kumbhaka internal breath retention. the stage of pranayama where breath is retained after inhalation. antar mouna internal silence – a meditation practice. anubhava experience, realization ardha half ardha dhanurasana half bow yoga pose b, yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words bahir outside, external bahir kumbhaka external breath retention. the stage of pranayama where breath is retained after exhalation. bahiranga trataka concentrating the attention (gaze) upon an external object such as a candle flame. bandha a posture in which organs and muscles are contracted to create energy lock in a specific area. basti a colon cleansing technique (shakarma), yogic enema bhagvad gita a part of the famous hindu epic ‘mahabharata’. teachings of lord krishna to his disciple arjuna at the commencement of the battle of kurukshetra, with explanations on sannyasa yoga, karma yoga, bhakti yoga, and jnana yoga. bhakti devotion bhakti yoga the yoga of devotion. bhastrika pranayama ‘bellows’ breathing technique in which the breath is forcibly drawn in and out through the nose in equal proportions, like the pumping action of the bellows. bhramari pranayama breathing practice in which a soft “humming-bee” sound is produced during exhalation to stimulate the ajna chakra bhujangasana cobra’ pose. brahman supreme consciousness, absolute reality. c, yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms yoga words chakra literally meaning circle or wheel, in yoga this refers to the energy centers lying along the confluence of the nadis (energy channels) chandra moon chandra nadi ida nadi chidakasha psychic space in front of the closed eyes, just behind the forehead. chin mudra hand gesture in which the first finger is kept at the root of the thumb, the last three fingers are unfolded. d, yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words danda stick danda dhauti one of the cleansing techniques (shatkarmas), used to clean the oesophagus with a stick. danta dhauti teeth cleansing technique dhanurasana bow’ pose; backward bending yoga pose dharana practice of concentration; sixth of the eight fold path in ashtanga yoga g, yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words ghrita neti neti (nasal cleansing technique) performed with ghee gomukhasana cow’s face’ posture gorakshasana yogi gorakhnath’s’ pose guna quality of nature viz. tamas, rajas, sattwa guptasana the ‘secret’ pose h, yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words hatha yoga science of yoga which purifies the whole physical body by means of shatkarma, asana, pranayama, mudra, bandha and concentration hridaya akasha psychic space of the heart centre hatha yoga science of yoga which purifies the whole physical body by means of shatkarma, asana, pranayama, mudra, bandha and concentration hridaya akasha psychic space of the heart centre hatha yoga science of yoga which purifies the whole physical body by means of shatkarma, asana, pranayama, mudra, bandha and concentration i, yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words ida nadi one of the main energy channels running on the left side of the spine from the mooladhara (base) chakra to the ajna chakra in the head. j, yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words jala water jala basti the yoga technique of enema using water – one of the yoga shatkarma jala neti a shatkarma technique – cleansing of the nasal passages with water by alternating the flow of water in the nostrils, preferably using a neti pot. jalandhara bandha throat lock’ to restrict the flow of bereath through the throat – done by resting the chin on the upper sternum (chest). japa continuous chanting i.e repetition of a mantra k, yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words kapal skull or cerebrum kapalbhati pranayama a breathing technique aimed at cleaning the frontal part of the brain; also called skull polishing – done through rapid breaths with more force on exhalation. karma action; the act of doing karma yoga the yoga of action – aims at supreme consciousness through action; discussed in bhagavad gita karna dhauti one of the shatkarma which involves cleansing the ears. l, yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words laghoo shankhaprakshalana a shatkarma technique – also referred as the short intestinal wash. involves the drinking of several glasses of water and the expelling it through stool after a series of exercises (asanas); in the process a thorough cleansing of the colon takes place. laya yoga union with the supreme consciousness through pranayama or devotion. literally, union by absorption laghoo shankhaprakshalana a shatkarma technique – also referred as the short intestinal wash. involves the drinking of several glasses of water and the expelling it through stool after a series of exercises (asanas); in the process a thorough cleansing of the colon takes place. laya yoga union with the supreme consciousness through pranayama or devotion. literally, union by absorption laghoo shankhaprakshalana a shatkarma technique – also referred as the short intestinal wash. involves the drinking of several glasses of water and the expelling it through stool after a series of exercises (asanas); in the process a thorough cleansing of the colon takes place. m, yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words maha great maha bandha the great lock – combines the three locks in yoga – the moola bandha, jalandhara bandha and uddiyana bandha – together with breath retention. maha mudra the great gesture – combines the practice of moola bandha, shambhavi and khechari mudras simultaneously. maha nadi literally means ‘great nadi’, which is the ‘sushumna’ in yoga makara crocodile n, yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words nadi energy channels in the body, similar to the meridians in acupuncture nadi shodhana pranayama breathing technique – is the ‘alternate nostril breathing’ or ‘balanced breathing’ – balances the energy flow in the channels and purifies the energy channels (nadi) by balancing the flow of breath through the right and left nostrils. nasagra/nasikagra mudra hand gesture adopted during pranayama to alternate the flow of breath through the nostrils. nauli abdominal massage’ – a cleansing technique (shatkarma) involving the contraction of the rectus abdominal muscles. neti kriya another shatkarma (cleansing technique) – involves cleaning of the nasal passages or sinus irrigation; jala neti forms a part of the various neti kriyas. o yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words om the universal mantra; cosmic vibration of the universe; represents the four states of consciousness p yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words pada foot; section of a literary work padmasana lotus pose – a seated meditative posture pancha makara the five tantric practices : mansa(meat), madhya(wine), matsya(fish), mudra(grain), and maithuna(sexual intercourse) pancha tattwa the five elements – earth, water, fire, air and ether param highest, supreme, god r yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words raja yoga yoga in which union is achieved through concentration of mind rakta bindu red bindu, same as beeja(seed) bindu, shakti bindu; the potentially creative bindu from which creation springs; often refers to the ovum. rechaka exhalation rudra lord shiva ; rudra is said to have sprung from brahma’s forehead and is one of the holy trinity raja yoga yoga in which union is achieved through concentration of mind s yoga terms and yoga words sahasrara chakra highest energy centre located at the crown of the head sakshi witness samadhi the final stage of ashtanga yoga in which concentration becomes one with the object of concentration; supreme union. samskara impressions stored in the mind that form the basis of our beliefs, attitudes and personality. sankalpa spiritual resolve. sannyasi one who has renounced the world in seek of self-realization. santosha contentment saraswati goddess who bestows knowledge of fine arts and power of speech sarvangasana shoulderstand – an inverted posture sat truth satguru guru who has attained self-realization sattwa guna quality unwavering purity satya truth-one of the yamas seetkari pranayama breathing technique which involves hissing leading to a cooling effect upon the whole body. shabda brahman cosmic causal state. shakti vital force; energy shambhavi mudra a yoga gesture in which one focusses at the mid-eyebrow centre shashankasana moon pose shatkarma the six yogic techniques of purification of the body, viz. neti, dhauti, nauli, basti, trataka, kapalbhati sheetali pranayama cooling breath’ – a pranayama technique that lowers the body temperature by inhaling through the mouth while letting the breath flow in over the tongue. shishya disciple; student siddha yoni asana the female counterpart of the siddhasana meditative posture, in which the left heel presses the entrance to the vagina siddhasana a meditative seating posture in which the left heel presses the perineum (stimulating the mooladhara chakra); also called as the adept’s pose or the ‘pose of perfection’. sirshasana inverted pose – the ‘headstand’ in which the body is inverted and balanced on the crown of the head soham represents a mantra in meditation; literally means, ‘i am that’. represents the psychic sound with the sound ‘so’ during inhalation and ‘ham’ during exhalation. soma chakra sixteen petalled chakra situated above ajna and manas chakras sukhasana a comfortable meditative pose; also called the ‘easy pose’ or simply the cross-legged pose. surya bheda pranayama breathing technique in which inhalation is done through the right nostril ; increases vitality surya nadi see ‘pingala nadi’ sushumna nadi main energy channel in yoga, in the centre of the spinal cord through which kundalini shakti flows. sutra neti yogic technique to cleanse the nasal passage using a special thread swadhisthana chakra second chakra in the spinal column, above the mooladhara. swastikasana auspicious pose -meditative posture similar to siddhasana t yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words tadasana palm tree pose– standing posture tamas the quality of inertia, laziness, procrastination. tiryaka bhujangasana twisting cobra pose tiryaka tadasana swaying palm tree pose trataka one of the cleansing techniques (shatkarma) in which the gaze is focussed upon an object such as a candle flame. u yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words uddiyana bandha abdominal retraction lock’; drawing in of the abdomen towards the backbone after exhaling ujjayi pranayama a kind of breathing technique which produces a light sonorous sound. utkatasana squatting position uttankoormasana tortoise pose uddiyana bandha abdominal retraction lock’; drawing in of the abdomen towards the backbone after exhaling v yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words vajrasana the ‘thunderbolt’ pose; a kneeling posture with buttocks resting upon the heels. vama swara flow of breath in the left nostril vaman dhauti yogic technique to cleanse the stomach by voluntary vomiting. there are two types: kunjal kriya (regurgitating of water) and vyaghra (regurgitating of food) varisara dhauti yogic cleansing technique in which a large quantity of water is drunk in conjunction with asanas to cleanse the entire digestive tract; also known as shankhaprakshalana. vashitva ability to control all objects, living and non-living y yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yoga terms and yoga words yamuna river emanating from yamnotri in the himalayas and joining ganga near allahabd, north india;refers to pingala nadi in the pranic body. yoga state of union between two opposites – body and mind; individual and universal consciousness; a process of uniting the opposing forces in the body and mind in order to achieve supreme awareness and enlightenment. yoga abhyasa practice of yoga. yoga nidra a deep relaxation technique also called ‘yogic sleep’ in which mind and body is at complete rest but with complete awareness. yamuna river emanating from yamnotri in the himalayas and joining ganga near allahabd, north india;refers to pingala nadi in the pranic body. [divdier] looking for a realistic way of losing weight fast? adding the best apple cider vinegar to your diet will certainly benefit you in the long term, but it won’t make much of a difference without a proper plan of action. to get this focus on losing weight and to do the right things from the get-go, you need a blueprint. if you’re after a sure-fire way to lose weight in less than 30 days, then why not try out our fab fat loss 30 journey to a lighter fitter you!! you are not alone. you will have me as a guide and a helpful, loving private community of hundreds to support you on your fab fat loss journey. my 30 day fab fat loss journey plan is designed to help women aged 18+ to lose 7 to 21lbs in 30 days. if you have more weight to lose than 21lbs, then the course is designed so that you can repeat the whole journey onto the next month. it’s simple to follow and simple to stay on track. [divder] we have a few more pages to support this page best yoga sex exercises how to lose face fat best balance yoga positions for balance best kettlebell leg workout best 10 fitness exersize cooking with plants organic bone broth nice n easy menu ideas the following two tabs change content below. bio latest posts abbey latest posts by abbey (see all) 30 day challenge ideas to help keep you motivated 2020 - january 16, 2020 tips on drinking keto wine on your weight loss journey 2020 - january 15, 2020 alcohol awareness on calories in alcoholic beverages 2020 - january 13, 2020 get more stuff subscribe to our mailing list and get interesting stuff and updates to your email inbox. i consent to my submitted data being collected via this form* thank you for subscribing. something went wrong. the form collects name and email so that we can add you to our newsletter list for project updates. checkout our privacy policy for the full story on how we protect and manage your submitted data! no responses pingback: best yoga sex exercises to improve sexual performance 2019 november 16, 2019 pingback: making a healthy choice for weight loss and happiness 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: 10 effortless cutting diet tips to lose weight 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: how to lose 10lbs in one week safely and easily 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: how to use organic green tea to lose weight: an easy to follow guide - fabfityou.com december 29, 2019 pingback: best weight loss pills for weight loss 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: how to lose face fat - fabfityou.com december 29, 2019 pingback: 8 of the best myprotein flavors - 2019 guide - fabfityou.com december 29, 2019 pingback: 10 day belly slimdown tips for weight loss 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: best kettlebell leg workout for a weight loss program 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: cooking with plants vegan cookbook for weight loss 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: best yoga quotes for inspirational on your weight lose journey 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: best coconut oil to lose weight and improve health review 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: best balance yoga positions to improve balance for health 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: 5 incredible matcha green tea powder health benefits 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: best total gym exercises for a weight loss workout 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: best 10 fitness exersize's to aiding weight loss 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: best trx workout plan for weight loss and health 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: best probiotic for women to aid gut health 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: best bcaa for women from a weight loss coach 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: 9 nice n easy menu ideas for weight loss and fat loss - fabfityou.com december 29, 2019 pingback: best 30 day challenge to fit into your wedding dress 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: how to drink your way to a slimmer figure & look great 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: top monday motivation action steps 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: 8 reasons why am i so fat and tips for weight loss review 2020 january 1, 2020 pingback: top tips on the abc diet what is it and how it works 2020 january 6, 2020 pingback: best appetite suppressants that help with weight loss 2020 january 9, 2020 leave a reply cancel reply save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. free ebook 10 day weight loss plan without working out! easy to follow guide to losing weight without breaking sweat subscribe to newsletter thank you for subscribing. something went wrong. popular posts best yoga sex exercises to improve sexual … best yoga terms and yoga words to … 9 nice n easy menu ideas for … making a healthy choice for weight loss … how to lose face fat related posts best yoga sex exercises to improve sexual performance 2019 research shows yoga sex exercise can boost and drive sexual performance. let your practice inspire more intimacy and passion in the bedroom. best yoga sex positions yoga sex exercise lotus pose this is a meditation pose to help reset your … abbey|november 12, 2019| best balance yoga positions for improving health 2019 best yoga quotes for inspirational on your weight lose journey 2019 resources keto weight loss yoga cyprus archives january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 july 2019 february 2019 january 2019 categories do yoga with me (3) equipment (6) healthy living (15) keto (4) recipes (3) resources (9) supplements (5) weight loss (20) yoga (4) fabfityou.com copyright © 2020. fabfityou.com is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. amazon and the amazon logo are trademarks of amazon.com, inc. or its affiliates. read more on our affiliate disclaimer page.