skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about best wordpress hosting 2020 – comparison guide when you’re creating a wordpress website one of the first things you need to think about is your choice of web host. sadly, a lot of people end up neglecting their choice of web host and their sites end up suffering as a result of sub-standard web hosting. by choosing a reliable wordpress host your site will be high performing, secure, and online when your users need it the most. below we dive into the ins and outs of wordpress web hosting, and highlight some of the main web hosts you should considering throughout your wordpress hosting search. full affiliate disclosure: the links on this page are affiliate links. it means that i earn a commission if you purchase any of these wordpress web hosting services reviewed on this site. this enables me to keep makeawebsitehub.com up-to-date and free!! – thank you for your continued support. none of these affiliate links will effect the price of your hosting. contents best wordpress hosting different between normal web hosting and wordpress hosting different types of wordpress hosting types of wordpress hosting to avoid managed vs unmanaged wordpress hosting what to look for in a wordpress host minimum features to look for in wp hosting latest deals - 25% off for 3 months on cloudways hosting use coupon code sitehub cloudways have given us an exclusive coupon code to offer makeawebsitehub readers. get 40% off for 3 months when you purchase any hosting package. offer valid for new customers. not valid for existing customers, upgrades, or any other product purchase. go to cloudways.com and get this deal best wordpress web hosting 2020 compared with wordpress hosting we take into consideration speed, uptime, support & cost below we highlight some of the best wordpress hosts you’ll want to consider throughout your search for the perfect host. the hosts profiled below offer you a blend of various forms of wordpress hosting, like those mentioned above.[/vc_column_text] 1. bluehost – $2.95 per month + free domain uptime: 99.99% support: 10/10 – fast and knowledgable bonus: free ssl certificate, free domain, free email bluehost comes top when it comes to wordpress hosting and web hosting companies as a whole. they offer cheap, yet high quality wordpress hosting plans to individuals, bloggers and small business owners all over the world. note that the hosting plan lengths are between 12 and 36 months, so they do require a longer commitment, but with this they offer heavy discounts on the combined monthly costs. the best value plan from bluehost has to be choice plus – it’s just $5.45 per month (was $14.99) and exactly the same price as the plan below this one. bluehost will offer you features like: easy 1-click wordpress installation free domain name – use this link fast scalability, you can upgrade to a vps solution with a single click free ssl certificate for improved site security an enhanced cpanel that’s easier to use for beginners 30-day money-back guarantee you’ll also get access to bluehost’s support team 24/7. their support staff is very helpful and responsive and will help you work through site issues very quickly. if you’re looking for the most value out of what you’re paying for a wordpress host, then bluehost should be at the top of your list. visit bluehost.com - $2.95pm read bluehost review 2. cloudways from $10 per month – latest deal – 25% off for 3 months uptime: 99.99% support: 10/10 – 24-hour support through multiple channels and detailed knowledgebase cloudways offers the power of the cloud to keep your wordpress site up and running. rather than using shared physical servers, cloudways operates using cloud technology from big players in the tech industry. sites are stored on servers from digital ocean, linode, vultr, amazon, and google. with a wordpress hosting plan from cloudways, you’re getting a ton of great features. all of the plans are fully managed by professionals and include several fail-safes to keep things running smoothly. not only is there a backup system and firewall, but issues are dealt with through an automatic healing feature. all of the servers are optimized to provide your visitors with great load times. advanced caching systems and a content delivery network ensure that your site is accessible regardless of where your visitors are located. some of the features offered by cloudways wordpress hosting include: cloud hosting infrastructure built-in content delivery network and wordpress cache for optimized performance automatic backup system round-the-clock monitoring automatic patching and healing simple staging environment scalable hosting solutions free ssl certificate and dedicated firewalls because the cloudways wordpress hosting plans are all managed, you can expect to receive solid support. the team is available all day, every day. plus, there’s a detailed knowledgebase filled with how-to guides and troubleshooting help. cloudways offers a wide range of plans. the cool thing about this provider is that you can choose which cloud provider you want your site to work with. whether you choose amazon, google, or one of the other networks, each plan includes a set amount of resources. you can easily choose a plan based on ram, core processing power, storage, and bandwidth. if you need some extra resources in the future, you’ll be happy to know that all the plans are scalable. visit cloudways.com read cloudways review 3. siteground – from $3.95 per month uptime: 99.99% support: 10/10 [/vc_column_inner] [/vc_row_inner] siteground is one of the most commonly used wordpress shared hosts. with its fast speeds, great customer support, and high levels of security it’s a great bargain for the features you get. it’s also one of the four hosts recommended by wordpress.org. siteground’s shared wordpress hosting will offer you features like: an easy to use 1-click wordpress installer automatic updates, so your site will always be running the latest version of wordpress a free ssl certificate from let’s encrypt a wordpress staging area, so you can view site changes before they go live built-in website caching for improved site performance and loading speeds beyond the features above you’ll also get access to a dedicated support team 24/7. with the various hosting packages offered, you’ll surely find one that’s the perfect fit for your wordpress website. visit siteground.com read siteground review 4. hostgator – from $2.75 per month uptime: 99.96% support: 8.5/10 hostgator is a well-known hosting provider for the beginner hosting space. however, they also offer stellar wordpress cloud hosting packages that are equipped with a 99% uptime guarantee. you’ll find three different wordpress specific packages that cater to single site users all the way up to those running multiple websites. some of the features offered by hostgator’s wordpress hosting include: an easy to use wordpress cloud interface enhanced site performance with the bundled global cdn advanced security protection quick wordpress installation and site transfer easy scalable to adjust to higher levels of traffic the package you choose will depend on how many sites you run and your overall traffic levels. if you’re looking for an easily scalable wordpress host that’ll grow with your site without breaking the bank, then check out hostgator. downside to this deal is that there’s no free ssl certificate for your site. beyond the wordpress cloud hosting option above you can also opt for a cheaper shared wordpress hosting plan. visit hostgator.com read hostgator review 5. greengeeks – from $2.95 pm uptime: 99.99% support: 9/10 – live chat, phone, email, and ticket greengeeks is an established web hosting provider that offers much more than just reliable service. one of the company’s biggest advantages is its reliance on green energy. for every bit of power that’s used, greengeeks puts three times as much back into the grid through renewable energy. the hosting provider currently offers three managed wordpress plans. it includes a one-click installer to get your site up and running in minutes. updates and security issues are taken care of automatically, allowing you to focus on building your audience. the main difference between the various wordpress plans is performance. each one includes unlimited storage and unmetered bandwidth. however, features like the powercacher system and premium ssl certificates are reserved for the highest tier available some of the features offered by greengeeks wordpress hosting include: automatic wordpress updates to keep your site running smoothly daily backups to prevent lost data or corruption customized security systems with zero-day vulnerability fixes one-click wordpress installer improved global performance with a content delivery network unlimited solid-state storage unmetered bandwidth free site migration access to cpanel and softaculous free let’s encrypt ssl certificate alongside all of those great features, you’re getting access to a knowledgeable team of support specialists. greengeeks customer support is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. they can be reached directly on the site through a live chat function or through more traditional means like the telephone. overall, greengeeks is a great option for anyone looking for a hassle-free wordpress hosting service. when it comes to security, performance, and most technical aspects, wordpress accounts are taken care of by professionals. so, you don’t have to worry about the finer details. hosting plans are scalable as well, ensuring that there’s plenty of room for your site to grow. visit greengeeks.com read greengeeks review 6. inmotion hosting uptime: 99.94% support: 8/10 inmotion offers you a feature-rich wordpress hosting environment. with inmotion, you get access to a wordpress optimized server environment along with a dedicated support team behind you every step of the way. inmotion also offers a variety of wordpress-specific features like wordpress pre-installation, drag and drop theme support, along with a selection of free wordpress themes to choose from. some additional features offered by inmotion include: automated wordpress core updates free daily website backups unlimited disc space, bandwidth, and email no matter which plan you choose 24/7 support from wordpress experts for those looking for a wordpress shared host that offers a bit more in regards to wordpress specific features, then inmotion is definitely a host worth considering. visit inmotion hosting read inmotion hosting review 7. wp engine – from $35 per month uptime: 99.99% support: 10/10 wpengine offers a wide range of managed wordpress hosting packages that cater to a variety of different website owners. along with their range of packages, you’ll get access to a very high performing host that has a stellar support team and top notch security. wpengine offers you features like: an easy one-click backup and restore process no matter which plan you choose live site monitoring for virus and hacker attempts bundled caching for improved site performance a site staging area to view site changes before going live basically unlimited storage with amazon s3 integration now, wpengine doesn’t have features like email hosting, and they don’t allow for the use of some pretty popular wordpress plugins. with that aside, wpengine is an incredibly high-performance host that’s a great it for sites that receive a high volume of traffic. visit wpengine.com read wpengine review 8. a2 hosting – from $2.94 per month uptime: 99.99% support: 9/10 – 24-hour support through live chat, phone, email, and ticket a2 hosting is an independently owned provider. while some of the biggest names fall under the umbrella of a parent company, a2 hosting is the only one calling the shots. thus, the company offers some unique hosting features that you won’t find anywhere else. this provider offers several wordpress hosting plans. they’re separated into two categories. the first is shared wordpress hosting. with one of these plans, you’re getting unlimited disk space and data transfer. while the most affordable plan only allows for one site, the mid-range and top-level plans include unlimited sites and email accounts. the second option that’s available is managed wordpress hosting. with a managed plan, your site is stored on turbo servers. a2 hosting’s turbo servers offer 20x the speed as the standard shared server. plus, you’ll have access to simple one-click staging, the plesk control panel, and automatic backups. a2 hosting wordpress hosting plans include: free hackscan protection security feature available turbo servers high-performance a2 optimized servers litespeed cache for enhanced performance unlimited storage and bandwidth for shared wordpress plans free site migration free ssl certificate server rewind backup system available for higher-tier plans one-click installers for wordpress, joomla, drupal, and more cloudflare cdn for better load times across the globe both shared and managed wordpress hosting plans include access to 24-hour support. the team can be reached several ways for your convenience. managed plans come with the added perk of automatic patching and updates. a2 hosting currently offers an anytime guarantee. rather than limiting your money-back guarantee to only the first month, this provider allows you to request a refund at any point during your service term. the company will provide a prorated refund and cancel your account, so there’s no risk involved. visit wpengine.com read wpengine review 9. hostinger – starting at $0.80 per month uptime: 99.99% support: 9/10 – dedicated support 24/7 hostinger is all about providing you with a simple alternative to complicated hosting plans. the service is designed to be as user-friendly as possible, allowing you to get your site set up in only a few minutes. each wordpress hosting plan includes access to a one-click installer that already has several performance-based plugins. the built-in caching plugin is custom-made, ensuring that it works well with the service. if you need even more performance capabilities, hostinger offers speed optimization features as well. the mid-range plan includes twice the performance speed while the highest plan offers 4x the speed. there are three wordpress hosting plans in total. the most affordable includes 10 gb of disk space and 100 gb of bandwidth, making it ideal for smaller blogs. on the higher end of the spectrum, there’s the business wordpress hosting plan. designed for e-commerce and corporate sites, this plan includes 30 gb of storage space and unlimited bandwidth. hostinger wordpress hosting plans include: one-click wordpress installer security technology from bitninja up to 30 gb of disk space on the top-level plan access to intuitive website builder access manager daily backups available for a higher-tier hosting plan pre-installed caching plugin all in all, hostinger is a great solution if simplicity and speed are your top priorities. the highly optimized servers perform well and can provide your website visitors with great load times regardless of where they are located in the world. should you have any issues with your account, the hostinger support team is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. for peace of mind, every single one of hostinger’s wordpress plans come with a 30-day money-back guarantee. visit hostinger.com read hostinger review 10. liquid web liquid web offers a range of wordpress specific hosting packages including, vps, dedicated, dedicated cloud, and managed wordpress hosting. they’re definitely in the upper tier of wordpress hosts available. with liquid web you’ll get stellar performance, easy to use site management tools, and rock-solid security. some additional features offered by liquid web include: a custom and easy to use site management dashboard a staging area to view site changes before they go live automated updates to the wordpress core and plugins regular site maintenance automated site backups a bundled free ssl certificate overall, liquid web is a very high performance and easy to scale host. plus, they offer in-depth developer tools like having direct access to your mysql databases, ssh access, and git version control. visit liquidweb 11. dreamhost wordpress hosting – from $2.59 per month uptime: 99.92% support: 9/10 dreamhost offers a number of cost-effective managed and non-managed wordpress hosting packages. the lowest cost wordpress hosting solution is their save money shared wordpress package that is $2.59 per month. this is perfect if you’re just starting out and just want the basics to get you up and running. if you require a managed wordpress hosting solution, then the next package up is called dreampress that starts from $16.95 per month. the great thing with dreamhost is that their servers grow with your website. if you require more power because your website has grown in content and traffic, then their range of packages still enables you to scale your site without having to migrate hosts. their package offerings range from complete beginners all the way up to experienced webmasters running very high traffic websites. check out the wordpress hosting package prices below. some of the features of dreampress include: easily scalable servers to help you out surfing traffic surges real-time malware scans and site fixing if hacking does occur quick woocommerce integration and support for ecommerce store owners cloud server technology that makes your server stack infinitely scalable a knowledge, helpful and responsive support team behind your site if you’ve already been using dreamhost to run your website and are looking to upgrade to a managed wordpress package, then this could be the solution you’re looking for. plus, with its easy scalability, you don’t have to worry about a future site migration. visit dreamhost.com read dreamhost review 12. pressable pressable is a solid wordpress managed host that caters to a few different user groups. namely, agencies and developers, woocommerce store owners, and enterprise site owners. pressable can support your site all the way up to getting multiple millions of pageviews per month. pressable will offer you wordpress hosting features like: automated core, plugin, and theme updates ongoing site optimization to ensure peak performance a bundled ssl certificate for those who want to sell products, or up their site security fast site scaling for when traffic needs increase regular automated nightly website backups overall, one of pressable’s greatest strengths is its commitment to customer support. regardless of the issue you into when building, growing, or launching your site, the pressable team will be behind you every step of the way. 13. pagely pagely has been in the hosting business for a long time. their hosting packages cater to the higher end of the market for high traffic sites that demand high performance and security. plus, with the integrated backend amazon aws servers, you’ll get access to advanced developer features that are hard to find elsewhere. some of pagely’s features include: regular and automated wordpress plugin and core updates an integrated cdn for improved site performance across the globe basically zero limits on the plugins you can use and install across your site real-time security scans for improved protection against malware and ddos attacks pagely specializes in redundancy, scalability, and custom built site security features, so if these are big deciding factors, then they’re definitely a host worth considering. 14. synthesis by studiopress if your site runs on the genesis wordpress theme and you’re looking for a managed wordpress hosting solution it’ll be hard to beat synthesis. this managed solution is unique in that your site must be running on genesis to utilize this service. the advantage to this is that your entire hosting platform will be completely optimized for the theme and plugins you use. the synthesis managed solution can be found at the highest level plan offered. some of the features you’ll get access to with synthesis include: regular automated wordpress core and theme updates custom crafted site security measures to protect against malware and ddos attacks an included ssl certificate from letsencrypt for added site protection a hosting environment that’s custom-tailored to your theme setup plus, with a genesis-specific support team behind your site and hosting, issues will be a thing of the past. if you’re currently a genesis user who’s been looking to upgrade to a managed host, then synthesis is an incredible choice. what’s the difference between normal web hosting and wordpress hosting? you can host your wordpress website on normal web hosting like shared hosting through bluehost or hostgator for example. the difference between the two types of hosting is that wordpress servers are finely tuned to deal with sites that run on the wordpress platform. wordpress hosting server features: – better speed and performance. performance (load time) is a lot better as there’s more server resources available. – servers are specifically configured to deal with the demands of a wordpress site – upgrades to servers happen more often and faster due to the server being set up to only deal with wordpress sites. – increased php memory. (php7) different types of wordpress hosting available since wordpress is such a commonly used cms you’ll find a variety of different wordpress hosting services with various hosting types and server configurations that cater to wordpress sites. from your basic shared host all the way up to managed and dedicated hosting environments. below you’ll learn about the key differences between the various wordpress hosting types available, so you have a better idea of the wordpress hosting type that’ll be the best fit for your website. free wordpress hosting if you want free hosting for your wordpress site, then you’ll have to go through wordpress.com. note that if you choose this option your domain name will include the wordpress.com extension, so ‘yourdomain.wordpress.com’. although you won’t have the prettiest or most brandable domain name, you can have your site up in a matter of minutes. if you’re not sure you’re ready to commit to running your own site on a dedicated domain, then using this hosting option can be a great first step. the downside to this approach is that you don’t have your own dedicated domain name and there will be limits to what you can do with your site. having your own branded domain name means that you can brand yourself under your own domain name and have things like a domain-specific email address, rather than just having a site on a subdomain of wordpress.com if you’d like to learn more about wordpress.com and wordpress.org, then check out this detailed comparison between wordpress and wordpress.com. shared wordpress web hosting most website owners end up starting with a hosting service such as shared hosting. typically it’s one of the cheapest options and offers a ton of resources to help beginners get started online. using a shared host means that your site will be on the same server that hosts hundreds of other sites, so you’ll be sharing the same server resources, but it also helps to bring individual costs down. shared hosting is a great option as it’s very affordable and will usually run you anywhere from $5-$7 per month. plus, you get access to some pretty powerful and useful hosting features. shared plans are typically sold with ‘unlimited’ bandwidth and storage. typically this is a misdirection because the performance bottleneck you’ll experience has to deal with processing power and not your bandwidth or storage. now a shared server will provide you with enough processing power so your site can handle thousands of visitors a day without too big of a dip in performance. but, as your site grows and has a lot of visitors visiting the site concurrently, you’ll want to upgrade your plan to either a vps, dedicated server, or other managed solution. when you’re choosing a shared host make sure to choose one that allows you to upgrade your service, as this will usually be easier than migrating your entire site to a new server. your shared host will provide you with a web-based interface like cpanel, so you can easily manage your server environment. plus, you’ll be able to do things like create domain-specific email addresses, setup databases, and easily install wordpress on your site via software like one-click install or softaculous. installing wordpress the manual way isn’t too difficult either, but by using one-click installers you can have wordpress up and running on your site in a matter of minutes. these installers handle every aspect of the installation process including setting file permissions, so all future wordpress core, theme, and plugins updates can happen seamlessly all within your wordpress dashboard. vps wordpress hosting a vps is a great in-between solution for sites that might have outgrown a shared server, but aren’t quite big enough that they need their own dedicated server. a vps server is still technically a shared server, but it operates similarly to a dedicated server environment. vps servers utilize machine virtualization so that your server environment is running in isolation from other sites on the server. this style of server will typically have fewer sites utilizing the same physical server and you’ll have more direct server access than a shared hosting account will provide. there are some benefits to using a vps setup, over something like a shared hosting setup. for starters, you’ll have much more control over your server environment and you’ll have more server configuration options. a vps will be more expensive than a shared hosting plan, but with that price increase, you’ll have much more server power and overall flexibility at your disposal. but, there are cheaper vps options available. finally, your vps server will operate in an isolated server environment, so you’ll have improved security overall. your vps will typically come equipped with a control panel like whm, which will make server management and configuration much easier. however, a vps server isn’t perfect. although you have more control over server settings you don’t have complete freedom and you’ll still run into hardware limitations. but, unless you require a very specific server setup it’ll probably be enough. also, since a vps requires more detailed server setup and configuration you’ll need to have the technical skills to maintain your own server. your hosting support team might be able to help you with certain issues, but the overall maintenance will fall on your shoulders. managed wordpress hosting if your site continues to grow both in terms of size and levels of traffic, but you don’t have the capacity, time, or skills to manage your own server environment, then managed wordpress hosting can be the perfect solution for you. managed wordpress hosting is available for dedicated, vps, and cloud hosting plans. managed hosting can be a great fit if you don’t have the skills to effectively manage and optimize your server environment, or are short on time and want to put all of your effort on your site’s growth, and you can justify the added expense of hosting. with managed hosting, you’re not only paying for the server space, but you’re paying for the support and maintenance team that’s fully behind your site’s success. depending on the managed host you choose you’ll have access to different levels of support, but you’ll typically find the following included in your plan: software installations and automatic upgrades site troubleshooting and routine maintenance server hardware repairs and regular server monitoring fast load time of pages higher level security features along with regular monitoring and bug fixes one of the biggest reasons to consider a managed wordpress host is the ability to have your problems handled swiftly and effectively. the dedicated team behind you will have in-depth knowledge of wordpress and your server environment, so your site can overcome issues rather swiftly. when your website is down you’re losing money and turning off users who visit your site. in this regard using a managed wordpress host can actually end up saving you money, or paying itself off over the course of the year. this is especially true considering the additional cost of a full-time technology expert to needed to maintain and optimize your server environment. dedicated wordpress hosting dedicated hosting is the top of the heap when it comes to hosting and the logical next step for those who want complete control over their server environment. if your site ends up being a huge success, then you’ll ultimately want to upgrade to a dedicated server. however, a vps solution will typically be enough for 98% of all websites. a dedicated server offers you an entire physical server hosted with your provider of choice. this will give you complete access to your server’s disk space, processing power, memory, bandwidth, and more. plus, you’ll have complete control over your server’s security. the biggest difference between shared, vps, and dedicated hosting is that with a dedicated host you have complete control over your server environment while having all of its resources at your disposal. typically, if you require this level of hosting you’ll either have the skills to manage your own server or will be able to hire out the service. most dedicated server providers will also offer a managed solution, which will take the burden away from managing and keeping your server up to date. dedicated hosting is suited towards larger sites are larger and receive a high volume of traffic. but, with the much-improved performance, you will be paying higher costs, and you’ll need a decent amount of technical knowledge to fully take advantage of the server resources you have available. types of hosting companies to avoid if you spend enough time browsing around different types of wordpress hosting, then you’ve probably come across a variety of dirt cheap hosting offers that are around $1 or less per month. this sounds like a good deal doesn’t it? $12 bucks a year for hosting, sign me up. however, these hosting deals are almost always too good to be true. companies who provide this level of hosting that’s very friendly on the wallet generally have good intentions. but, when you’re only charging people this much you simply can’t provide the level of support and performance that most wordpress site owners require. one of the biggest costs for most hosting companies is support, so when you end up choosing a budget-level host you’re probably not going to get access to a stellar support team. which means when you have an issue with your site you’ll be left on your own to solve it. or, when your site goes offline you’ll be stuck waiting, not able to reach a support tech for clarity on the issue. the best approach is to stick with a reputable wordpress host that has a solid and helpful support team and a verifiable track record. now, no host is going to be perfect, but it’s always a good idea to go with a host that’ll be there when you need them the most. your time and peace of mind are worth more than a few dollars a month. managed vs unmanaged wordpress hosting one of the bigger decisions you’ll have to make when choosing a wordpress host is deciding between unmanaged and managed wordpress hosting. typically, managed hosting will be higher cost, but there are some other differences you’ll want to know about as well. with managed hosting basically everything regarding your server and site management are going to be taken care of by the host. this means that things like your site’s security, uptime, updates, and server configuration will be things you don’t have to think about. with un-managed hosting, you’re basically given a blank server and it’s up to you to install wordpress, manage your server, upgrade your security, optimize for performance, and more. don’t let the word un-managed scare you off. it is entirely possible to manage your own hosting, especially if you have a smaller wordpress site and want to spend time learning the ins and outs of the platform. however, using a managed host will give you advantages like: having a solid team behind you to walk you through, or take care of any technical issues related to your site. not having to stress, or even think, about keeping your site online, updating the wordpress core, and maintaining site security. overall, whether you choose to go managed or unmanaged depends upon how much responsibility you want to take on regarding your hosting environment. if you prefer to do it all yourself, then unmanaged can be a great way to learn about the ins and outs of wordpress. but, if you prefer not to think twice about your hosting and want to let an experienced team handle it, so you can focus on your site, then check out wordpress managed hosting. if you’re in doubt you can always start with an unmanaged hosting environment and upgrade to a managed host in time. what to look for in a good wordpress host choosing a great wordpress host right out of the gate is a great way to avoid future hosting headaches. the last thing you want is to choose the wrong host, run into a bunch of issues, and then have to go through the entire site migration process. with the number of options available for wordpress hosting, there’s no excuse for making a poor hosting decision. some of the things you’ll want to keep an eye out for when evaluating wordpress hosts include: the performance of the host. if you want your website to succeed you absolutely need a high performing host. beyond doing onsite optimization your host’s hardware and software setup will influence how quickly your site loads. multiple plan options. host’s that offer multiple plans will be able to cater to your website as it stands now. plus, you’ll be able to grow your site with the same host, while saving money when you’re just getting started. knowledgeable wordpress support team. having a dedicated support team behind you can help to relieve a lot of the stress you feel running your site. eventually, you’ll run into an issue that requires support and you’ll want a team there for assistance when that occurs. robust security features. regardless of the size of your site security is something you’ll want to think about from day one. a good wordpress host will provide you with solid security features right out of the gate. wordpress-focus. some hosts call themselves wordpress hosts because they offer an easy one-click install of the cms. but, high-quality hosts offer wordpress-specific features that’ll help you get the most out of your site. alignment of value and money. of course you want a host that’ll improve your site’s performance and bolster it’s security, but not if you’re spending way more than your site actually makes. you’ll want a balance of wordpress-specific features at a price you can afford. the points above might seem like a lot to account for, but choosing a wordpress web host is something you’ll want to take seriously. as you begin your search you’ll see that a lot of the features highlighted above are commonplace. since the wordpress hosting market is so competitive you’ll generally be able to find a high-quality host at a price you can afford. minimum wordpress hosting features to look for now that you have an understanding of what kind of high quality features a good wordpress host will have we’ll take a look at the minimum requirements your host needs to have to support your wordpress site. luckily, wordpress has some pretty basic requirements that’ll run on just about any linux server environment. chances are almost every host you’ll come across will support wordpress considering it’s used on nearly 30% of all websites. still, it’s important to be aware of the specific requirements. to run wordpress you need the following: php version 5.2.4 or greater (php 5.4 or greater is recommended) mysql version 5.0 or greater (mysql 5.5 or greater is recommended) if your host currently runs or supports the two requirements above, then you have enough to run a wordpress site. any web server that supports php and mysql is good, but it’s recommended to also seek out a host that uses the apache web server, and more specifically one that can enable to apache mod_rewrite module, as this will let you enable the friendly url feature of wordpress. as long as you choose a reputable hosting company that’s been around for a while, then chances are they’ll be able to support and accomplish the above technical task. if you’re unsure, then you can get in touch with support and ask them if they do enable the mod_rewrite module in apache before you decide to sign up. it’s recommended to use hosts that run apache, alongside linux, php, and mysql. final recommendations if sorting through the above wordpress hosts sounds like a lot, then check out our recommendations below. you’ll find two hosts that offer shared hosting packages that cater well to beginners, and another that offers the best wordpress managed hosting for large-scale and growing sites. wordpress hosting for new bloggers for bloggers who are just starting out and need a wordpress hosting option that’s both cost-effective and reliable, then bluehost is going to be a great choice. overall, they’re one of the best wordpress hosting providers available to get started and grow your site with. personally, i have two of my own blogs hosted with bluehost and am a huge fan of their performance and superb customer service. beyond its high performing servers, you’ll also have stellar uptime and a dedicated and helpful support team behind you. plus, bluehost is one of the only hosts recommended by wordpress.org. some valuable bluehost features include: an enhanced cpanel for easy website management up to 100 email accounts simple one-click wordpress installation free domain name registration 100gb of disc space a 45-day money back guarantee if you want to get the best deal with bluehost, then you can currently get their high quality hosting for just $2.95 per month (with a 36-month contract), along with a free domain name. but, the sale will end soon, so you’ll want to act fast. if you’re planning on scaling up your content and traffic rather quickly, then we recommend you upgrade to the plus package for $5.45 per month. this will give you access to a greater level of features including, unlimited website and email account creation, and unlimited site bandwidth. overall, you won’t be able to find a better price for this quality of shared wordpress hosting, especially with the above discounts. best wordpress hosting for growing blogs and businesses if your website is currently growing and you want a hosting environment that can keep up while improving the existing performance of your site, then wpengine is the way to go. in my opinion, wpengine is the gold standard when it comes to wordpress hosting providers. naturally, it’s going to be a much more expensive option than shared hosting, but it’s priced higher for good reason. with wpengine you get a knowledgeable team of wordpress experts who are dedicated to helping your site grow. i actually host this site with wpengine. they offer a world-class service and support team, daily backups, plus the hosting infrastructure is designed to make sure that wordpress runs fast and smooth. now, using a managed wordpress host isn’t going to be the right fit for every style of website, but for those who are prepared to spend a bit more money every month to ensure your hosting is in great hands, then wpengine is definitely the place to go. if you want to learn more about the ins and outs of wpengine and what it can offer you, then check out this review. wordpress hosting frequently asked questions now that you have a better understanding of what you should look for in a host, as well as some great wordpress hosting recommendations it’s time to cover some of the most common questions relating to wordpress hosting. do i need domain and hosting from the same provider? no, you can get your domain and hosting from separate providers. however, if you don’t already have a domain name it can be easier and cheaper to choose a wordpress hosting plan that offers a free domain upon signup. do wordpress and ecommerce work together? yes, wordpress can easily be used to build and support a full-fledged ecommerce site. in regards to your host, you can also purchase an ssl certificate to improve your security of sitewide purchases. in some cases, a free ssl certificate may even be included with your hosting package. what’s the best way to improve the security of my wordpress site? your hosting choice will go a long way towards the overall security of your website. however, there are additional plugins you can utilize that will improve the security of your wordpress site. using things like a cdn, and having strong passwords on your site will also improve its overall security. can i migrate to a different wordpress host down the road? yes, if you’re unhappy with, or you’ve outgrown your existing hosting package, then you can definitely move to another provider. the migration process might be a little intense for those just starting out. however, most hosting companies offer a free migration service when you’re switching over, which will greatly simplify the process on your end. how long of a plan should i purchase? ultimately, it’s up to you and depends on your hosting needs. overall, going with a longer plan will end up being the cheapest in the long run, even though you have to pay more money up front. while going with the month-to-month option will cost more over the course of the year, but it gives you the freedom to move hosts if you’re still on the fence. in your opinion, which are the best wordpress hosting companies? my top 3 best wordpress hosting companies are: bluehost – best overall wordpress hosting and great for bloggers on a budget. siteground – best wordpress hosting for new businesses . wpengine – best wordpress support in the industry + speed is super fast. hopefully, all the information above will help you choose the perfect host for your wordpress website and answer any common questions or concerns you had related to choosing a wordpress host. any questions related to wordpress hosting we didn’t answer above? ask away in the comments below. wordpress hosting for new bloggers for bloggers who are just starting out and need a wordpress hosting option that’s both cost-effective and reliable, then bluehost is going to be a great choice. overall, they’re one of the best wordpress hosting providers available to get started and grow your site with. personally, i have two of my own blogs hosted with bluehost and am a huge fan of their performance and superb customer service. beyond its high performing servers, you’ll also have stellar uptime and a dedicated and helpful support team behind you. plus, bluehost is one of the only hosts recommended by wordpress.org. some valuable bluehost features include: an enhanced cpanel for easy website management up to 100 email accounts simple one-click wordpress installation free domain name registration 100gb of disc space a 45-day money back guarantee if you want to get the best deal with bluehost, then you can currently get their high quality hosting for just $2.95 per month (with a 36-month contract), along with a free domain name. but, the sale will end soon, so you’ll want to act fast. if you’re planning on scaling up your content and traffic rather quickly, then we recommend you upgrade to the plus package for $5.45 per month. this will give you access to a greater level of features including, unlimited website and email account creation, and unlimited site bandwidth. also, don’t forget to check out our best cheap wordpress hosting guide, to get a snap shot of all the budget providers of excellent wordpress hosting packages. overall, you won’t be able to find a better price for this quality of shared wordpress hosting, especially with the above discounts. 5 thoughts on “best wordpress hosting 2020 – comparison guide” chris evans november 22, 2018 at 12:15 pm | reply the review mentions php minimal versions, but having the most up to date php environment helps to provide the most optimal and secure experience for your websites and user base. it is also important to check how up to date is the infrastructure of the provider. for example i currently at my hosting provider have access to php 7.2, and also provide my with ssd storage for all of my files, which provides the most optimal fast and reliable service. jamie november 22, 2018 at 12:25 pm | reply chris, i agree whole heartedly and as php 5.x and php 7.0 are currently being deprecated in the new year most of the hosts on this list have started a process for moving their clients to php 7.2 – wp engine are well ahead on this. aisa march 19, 2018 at 6:21 am | reply great info. i’m with a host called arvixe who are owned by eig. they actually used to be great and had great customer service. a few years ago they started offering less and less. no more free privatization of my sites and it is super slow. all of my websites get poor speed rates. i’m just ready for a change and i’m thinking of starting a site with lots of affiliate sub domains similar to zazzle or spreadshirt so i want everything to work smoothly and quickly. i will make a more informed decision now because of your site. thanks. anna jia august 30, 2017 at 10:05 am | reply i have two websites, one is hosted on wp engine, the other is hosted on siteground. i assume that wp should be faster than siteground. unfortunately, i tested in new zealand, the situation is opposite. henry dean april 12, 2017 at 5:35 am | reply this article is a great resource for comparing hosting companies and hosting plans. thanks for putting all of this information together into one place. i personally use a2 web hosting and wp-engine and am extremely satisfied with both services. they have great features and the costs are more than reasonable for such reliable web hosting services. leave a comment cancel reply commentname email save my name and email in this browser for the next time i comment. best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub