skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » hosting » beginner’s guide to the best shared hosting options for wordpress beginner’s guide to the best shared hosting options for wordpress february 10, 2019 aigars silkalns hosting 17 comments post series: getting started with wordpress 1.beginner’s guide to the best shared hosting options for wordpress 2.a beginner’s guide to essential (free) wordpress plugins web hosting companies use the same physical resources (hardware) in the way that your own system uses hardware. three hardware characteristics specifically speaking; memory (ram), processing power (cpu) and hard disk space define the quality and capacity of your hosting services. shared hosting – you share a server and the hardware resources of that server with a number of websites. why shared hosting ? cheapest type of hosting- very important to keep costs low when you start your site and it generates no revenue. starts as low as $3.5 per month, sometimes even less. good support – a large number of sites used shared hosting and big hosting companies have a reasonably good customer support system in place. and they generally have newbie friendly user dashboards. easy one click installs for wordpress. hosting services will help you scale and migrate when your site traffic grows. shared hosting is by no means the best for a full fledged revenue generating high traffic site but it is best you start here. at least the costs of hosting will never cause you to shut your site down. if you are wondering how much more the best services cost. let me put it this way, a month of hosting on the best managed wordpress host will cost you the same, as it would 8 months on a shared hosting platform. if you are confident of your ability to generate revenue, i think you should start with the best in business – managed wordpress hosting – wp engine. but if you are a first time blogger, you can not possibly be. and money is a genuine concern. i see far too many people recommending expensive hosting plans as though cost is not relevant at all. but for some of you, for whom cost is relevant and a deterrent, when it comes to starting a site there is shared hosting. the shared hosting options available are pretty decent. let’s have look at a few of the best shared hosting options for wp. before that, i must reemphasize a revenue generating high traffic site is not meant to be host on a shared server. as you site traffic picks up, you must scale your hardware appropriately. we might receive a commission if you decided to purchase through these links. siteground probably the best shared hosting option available to you. siteground offers excellent uptimes (99.9%+), one click wp installation and well cached servers that serve up static pages. their websites are very secure and they offer a hack alert to help prevent any security breaches. the support is known to be reliable over phone, internet chat and e-tickets. previous global attacks on wp sites using brute force techniques were unsuccessful on siteground websites as you might expect. but their security workarounds ensured that the websites never became slow or the servers overloaded as you might expect, due to the exponentially increased number of site requests. their servers strategically are located in chicago, amsterdam and singapore. the provide domain registration free of cost. for more information about siteground please read our full review. more info bluehost a extremely well known budget hosting solution. recently there seems to be an increased disgruntlement about their service. it is an easily operable hosting platform that may appeal to someone new to website development. their user dashboard is one of the easiest to handle. for a newbie who’s looking to create a site that does not use too many server resources, bluehost is an acceptable option. you need to be wary of the server cpu load, so that your site is not suspended due to cpu throttling. as far as their servers go they offer a near 100% uptime. for more information about bluehost please read our full review. more info hostinger hostinger is an exciting up-and-coming company. focusing on low service prices, this host is starting to turn everyone’s heads. its pricing structure is quite fair. for example, – hostinger renewal prices do not increase when your promotional package runs out. unlike many other hosts, hostinger won’t increase the prices as long as you’re using it. the performance is surprisingly amazing! their ssd servers rarely go down and have better response times than the absolute majority of the mainstream companies. of course, no company is without its drawbacks. currently, hostinger does not provide any phone service and live chat is only available for the existing customers. yet considering how inexpensive, quick and reliable the services are, it doesn’t seem to be a complete deal breaker. get hosting inmotion hosting inmotion provides powerful hosting and great scalability. they store all site data on ssd (solid state drives, which are the faster the average hdd, especially it provides quicker access). one click installation for 310 applications, one of which is wp. free domain registration and site transfer with no downtime during transfer process. they offer spam safe email ids and free daily backup. inmotion also allows you to pick the server of your choice for your site which reduces the ping depending on your site’s viewer demographics. they provide a 90 day guarantee which takes some courage, the industry standard is much closer to a month. for more information about inmotion please read our full review. more info site5 site5 offers shared hosting and free site migration, if you should decide to sign up with them. every site that is registered with them has disaster recovery backups which are performed on a nightly basis and it covers everything relevant to your website including emails. their resource usage policy ensures that your site never runs into a shortage of ram or processing power so long as it stays within their accepted fair resource usage policy limits. this is to ensure that all sites registered with them are protected. site5 practice green web hosting, they plant one new tree for every new account at site5. they also scan your sites for malware and keep your site safe, although it is priced at $49.99 per year which seems a bit pricey. a 45 day money back guarantee, if you are unsatisfied with their service and a 99.9% uptime guarantee, failing which they’ll offer you a service credit. servers are located all over the globe, us, canada, romania, london, sidney, india, singapore and netherlands. you can pick which server location you want for $1~$5 extra per month, depending on location. more info a2 hosting solid state drives power this host in tandem with unlimited raid storage, 12 core cpus and 64gb servers at a minimum and 10gb/s redundant networks. free migration to begin with, green hosting with 100% carbon neutrality, perpetual security and hack scans for free. backups are free from their swift plan ($4.9/mo) and upwards. 3 server locations, railgun optimizer and cloudflare cdn support add to a2’s hardware to produce a powerful hardware and software combination capable to delivering good site load times and almost no downtime at all. $50 in yahoo/bing credit, 20% off on tesla themes and a 30 day money back guarantee make this a rather tempting choice for shared hosting in addition to the impressive hardware. for more information about a2 hosting please read our full review. more info ipage a hosting option for someone with a tight budget, ipage offers free domain registration. the hosting service enables one click wp installations, advertising credits up to $250 and 24*7 support for those of you residing in north america. ipage also provides near 100% uptime. sitelock security suite comes free to ensure your website’s files and information. scalability for your site should be easily achievable they offer upgrades to vps and good support for the same. more info a small orange a small orange is a good host with ssd storage and a myriad of automatic script installations. in addition to a 99.99% uptime, they provide daily backups with multiple restore points. you can create password protected directories and enable ip blocking and also hotlink/leech protection for your site. they are committed to reducing their environmental impact with green practices and offer a 90 day money back guarantee which is pretty gutsy. and another thing i should add, i’ve read a great deal about the kind of service and support they provide, all of the reviews suggest that they are an excellent hosting partner for any business. the only negative in my book would be 2 us based servers, most hosting companies have servers across multiple timezones. but this can be offset with a cdn partner to deliver your static files. more info media temple media temple uses the grid which is a server system designed to handle traffic spikes. they specifically boast about their reddit ready bandwidth which should keep your site live and responsive during traffic spikes, if you should be so lucky to land up on reddit’s front page or create any viral content. media temple’s hosting solutions are a bit on the expensive side and i wouldn’t recommend it at current prices. their service is developer friendly and scalable. more info tmdhosting tmdhosting is a fantastic, features-packed and fully managed wordpress and shared hosting with competitive prices for nearly any type of project you want to start. moreover, whether you are launching something fresh or you would like to switch to a different hosting service since you are not satisfied with your current provider, again, it is worth looking into tmdhosting. the service has you fully sorted out with all the must-haves for an always smooth and seamless website operation. it is safe to say that tmdhosting is a cheap hosting provider that suits all users ideally. from startups to medium-sized businesses and all the way to enterprises, tmdhosting has you covered. regardless of the plan you go with, all users get unlimited ssd space and bandwidth, 60-day money back guarantee and pre-built wordpress environment for uninterrupted operation. of curse, there is also the amazing support team which you can get in touch with at any given time of the day. not only will they respond but they will also assist you in setting yourself up with the ideal package for your current state. more info greengeeks a new standard in the web hosting industry when it comes to being green. greengeeks offer free nightly backups, free domain name registration, real time security scanning, protection against bruteforce attacks, a raid 10 configuration and ssd powered web space to keep your site on its toes. their service is best for people based in north america where their servers are located. the support is good enough, if you are reasonably knowledgeable about the website development process. more info rose hosting generally host very fast websites with low load times in comparison to the average shared host service. this is true probably because they have five different plans under shared hosting depending on the needs of the customer. a very good hosting option, ideal for scaling up operations as they provided vps & dedicated hosting to begin with. only later did they add shared hosting plans. support is good, they provide a 30 day money back guarantee and a near 100% uptime. more info hostgator hostgator is a good hosting service with a reliable server and 99.99% uptime guarantee. it is an eco friendly host with multiple hosting plans that provide extra resources depending on your site’s growth. they have a large collection of installable scripts and web templates, a few free marketing tools to start off with and a decent support system. more info dreamhost dreamhost runs on ssds, offer a 100% uptime guarantee, free domain registration and a 97 day money back period. their user dashboard may not be as easy to handle as bluehost but they offer slightly better customer support. more info a few tips unlimited disk space and transfer mean nothing. rarely will you encounter such a difficulty caused by a lack of either. shared hosting plans suffer the most under load because you share server resources, they will not allow your site to hog all the server resources at any given time. some hosts will even go so far as suspending your account. cpu throttling is very real and your host service will expect you to upgrade your plan if you keep pushing against the ceiling of your hosting plan. most host service providers increase the renewal fee and the low fee is a ploy to ensnare you, beware increases in price for hosting service renewal. check out the following features when considering hosting options of different costs: domain registration – free or not ? security and site scanning for malicious scripts. backup services – daily/weekly. hardware – cpu employed, network data transfer limits and whether hdd or ssd. how many nodes or sites are assigned to one server. rose hosting has 5 hosting plans and they split their servers up so that each of their clients is able to meet their requirements. and the price goes up as the site traffic increases. it is bit like a vps plan (you pay for increased use) in some ways which makes it all the better. final thoughts shared hosting must only be a means to keep your budget tight till your site gets off the ground in terms of revenue generation. then you will certainly need to think about better web hosting plans like vps and dedicated servers. in the next few posts we will discuss options of web hosting companies for other types of hosting services and we will also benchmark the performance of various providers of shared hosting services to help you identify the best shared hosting option among the lot. if i’ve missed out your favorite shared hosting service, please do weigh in on the comments section 🙂 thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. hostingshared hostingwebsite hostingwordpress hosting share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts 16 best woocommerce hosting providers 2020 you are here to pick between the best woocommerce hosting providers for your superb online… 11 best java hosting compared 2018 every java developer who wants to bring web applications to an entirely different level, our… how to choose the right hosting for your wordpress website? – a beginner’s guide if you are looking for web host for your new wordpress site, then you have… 10 best multiple domain hosting services 2019 in case you are in need to build several individual (read different domain name) websites… wordplace review: powerful fully managed wordpress hosting from $1 looking for the best hosting for your wordpress website? wordplace is a web host you… kinsta hosting review – powerful cloud hosting for wordpress choosing a new wordpress web host can be difficult. but it needn't be. to help… this post has 17 comments ben says: at i work with a managed wordpress hosting company, nexcess, which is where i host my personal wordpress site. i would love to see what you think about them as compared to some of these more well known options that you mentioned. nexcess has really great service and support and owns their own data centers outside of detroit, so not an eig company 🙂 reply aigars says: at ben, since you know what eig is i am 200% that you are affiliated with nexcess, so this is attempt in free advertising. nice try! 🙂 reply heather a says: at why would you want shared hosting. your site will be slow sharing the resources. you should include ecomlane. they offer great managed super fast dedicated servers at the price of shared. i’ve been with them for just over a year, and i’m extremely happy with them! reply aigars says: at heather, i have no plans to include your mentioned hosting provider. on their website, they don’t even know how to spell “wordpress” properly which shows how less they know about this platform. other hosting providers have specific optimizations in place to handle wordpress and therefore even in shared environment they will perform better than server that has no optimizations whatsoever. reply muhammad says: at thank you for this great article! what do you think of namecheap shared hosting plans? reply aigars says: at i haven’t used it myself. therefore i don’t have an opinion on them. however, i do use their domain registrar and can recommend it. but i really hope that namecheap is not the same as godaddy who knows how to do domains but not hosting. reply miskat mahmud says: at i have got a simple question in my mind. have you used wordpress hosting services from all those providers? however, it’s a great informative post. reply aigars says: at miskat, i haven’t used only greengeeks and rose hosting but i have used the rest, so i have a good insights. reply alex h. le forte says: at thats a great article, keep up the good work. i think that i will go with siteground as you have recommended it as the best hosting provider for wordpress websites. reply aigars says: at alex, thank you for your feedback! siteground is the right choice for small wordpress powered websites. colorlib have outgrown their shared hosting plans and we would need 6 of their larger plans to host our website. but if you have a small blog, ecommerce website, corporate website or magazine you can easily host on siteground. once you will reach million pageviews a month you will have to choose another hosting provider but it is not like you will wake up tomorrow and have that amount of traffic. siteground comes with wordpress specialized server side caching that will make your website really fast. it’s the same approach much more expensive wordpress managed hosting providers offers but for fraction of the cost. i highly recommend their service and i can assure that you are not going to be disappointed. if you have any questions about wordpress hosting or wordpress performance in general, please let me know and i will be happy to help. reply kevin says: at nice article. i bought a shared hosting with rosehosting at very affordable price and i’m completely happy with the service. i would recommend everyone to try them. reply aigars says: at kevin, thank you for your comment! i haven’t used rosehosting myself but from what i can see it is really expensive. for $3.95/month you can host a simple html website because wordpress alone will take the entire space on the smaller plan. bluehost for the same price offers 100gb of storage and that’s 200 times more for the same price. even specialized wordpress hosting providers such as siteground that comes with outstanding caching offers 10gb of storage for the same price. wordpress will run on siteground much, much faster because of their custom built nginx caching. for other platforms it won’t be as noticeable but still i would choose siteground every single time. also vps options are twice as expensive as ones available from linode and digital ocean. and i have never heard of rosehosting before but i have used linode and digital ocean and their services are awesome and you can’t ask for a better service for any price. which puts rosehosting in a really bad situation. if you are looking for the best hosting provider for wordpress and can afford to pay as much as you pay for rosehosting you can easily afford wordpress managed hosting which will offer performance like you have never seen before. you can test our website to see what i am talking about here. i am not saying that you should run away from your hosting provider but you should know that there are far cheaper and better hosting options available and you are just burning your money. if money is no object, then no problem with that but i would think twice before paying next hosting bill. reply narmail singh says: at nice article. good to see that you looked in every aspect of shared hostings and beyond. reply david feldman says: at regarding vps, you can’t just compare prices between providers like rosehosting and linode/digitalocean. rosehosting provides fully managed vps’s which means they take care of installation and configuration and management and maintenance of all server side software. linode and do provide completely unmanaged vps’s which means you must install and maintain the entire lamp stack including all security issues yourself. these are essentially two very different services and that’s why rosehosting takes more. they are providing a lot more. reply murphy says: at it’s good that in this article you’ve mentioned a few providers which use solid state drives. a few months ago, i used a shared hosting plan with hdd, but since i moved to ssd shared hosting plan i noticed that there’s a huge difference between ssd and hdd. now my website loads in no time, which i guess is the reason for the dropping of my site’s bounce rate. i’ll definitely keep using plans with ssd storage just because the speed is amazingly fast. reply aigars says: at ssd does make a big difference as long as other parameters are there. for example, if the hosting isn’t oversold and there is plenty of ram and cpu power to spare. reply motti says: at re: siteground the problem with siteground was that after one year of a reasonable yearly fee, it jumped to over $230 usd for a year. unless you run a very busy site or blog with multiple users, this would be very expensive for most. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) next post: a beginner’s guide to essential (free) wordpress plugins we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×