we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk culture like follow best indoor plants for people who suck at taking care of plants need to add some greenery to your space but have no idea where to start? all six plants on this list are pretty easy going, can handle a bit of neglect, and will look great in your home. share tweet share share best for the instagram likes swiss cheese plant (monstera deliciosa) have some patience — those distinctive holes will develop as the plant matures over time. $49.99 from walmart best for warm spaces peace lily (spathiphyllum) keep a spray bottle handy and give it a spritz every so often — it'll love you for it. $31.05 from walmart best fast-growing plant chinese money plant (pilea peppermoides) a great plant for anyone with kids, as you can quickly and easily propagate new plants from its many offshoots. $28.99 from walmart editors independently select all products and services featured here. if you buy something through our links, we may receive a commission. by sarah griffiths2020-03-25 09:00:00 utc if you don’t have a green thumb and plants seem to wilt when you glance in their general direction, then this is the list for you. whether you tend to forget that they’re there (that twig in a pot was once a flower, you know) or kill them with too much water love, we promise that there is a plant out there that is exactly right for you. simply breaking up with a high maintenance plant and opting for a retro-tastic spider plant or trendy swiss cheese plant could even lead to a new passion. plus, plants help to make your space a bit more cheery and serve as a great backdrop to your instagram shots. if you’re thinking about branching out and adding some new greenery to your life, we have some suggestions for the best indoor plants that basically thrive on neglect. we spoke to kirsty wilson, herbaceous supervisor at the royal botanic garden edinburgh, to get her input on which greenery would make the best plant pets. here's our list: best for sunny spaces image: walmart the good the bad the bottom line spider plant (chlorophyum comosum) fast-growing, sun-loving, and easy to propagate, it will grow just as well hanging as it will on a tabletop. $12.99 from walmart in the 1970s, the humble spider plant was as trendy as bell bottom pants. but it’s also one of the easiest house plants to care for, especially if you pop it in a well-lit place. all you have to do is keep it well watered in the summer, then scale back its moisture in the winter. misting the leaves every so often to increase humidity and keeping it above 45°f will ensure a happy plant and all you have to do is repot it if it thrives a bit too much. kirsty wilson, herbaceous supervisor at the royal botanic garden edinburgh says: “the fast-growing shoots actually produce little ‘babies’ which you can propagate giving you more spider plants to share with friends.” best for the instagram likes image: walmart the good the bad the bottom line swiss cheese plant (monstera deliciosa) have some patience — those distinctive holes will develop as the plant matures over time. $49.99 from walmart an instagram favorite, every trendy house needs a monstera — just skim the hashtag #monsteramonday for inspiration. it’s an impressive plant with its large, glossy, heart-shaped leaves, which develop their distinctive perforations as they mature. the plant likes a bright position in the home — but not direct sun — as well as damp soil, but not too wet, so go easy with that watering can. monstera comes from tropical rainforests where its roots help it climb into the tree canopy, so if you want yours to be a prime specimen, “gently push the aerial roots into a moss-covered pole,” wilson says. and don’t forget to show off its progress on insta, obviously. best low-maintenance plant image: home depot the good the bad the bottom line snake plant (sansevieria) super fast growing and almost impossible to kill. $14.99 from walmart if the snake plant (also known as mother-in-law's tongue) is good enough for nasa, it’s good enough for your home. the us space agency used the plant in its famous clean air study because of its natural capacity to convert poisonous substances into oxygen, and it’s a great choice for bedrooms because unlike other plants, this one gives off oxygen while you sleep. a snake plant needs a big pot because it’s a fast grower, likes a light spot shaded from the sun, and loves a bit of central heating. “this plant is originally from the desert so don’t give loads of water — allow the soil to dry out thoroughly between waterings,” wilson says. “better too little water than too much.” best hanging plant image: walmart the good the bad the bottom line string of hearts (ceropegia woodii) a unique and intriguing option that's perfect for a hanging planter, plus it'll even flower if you treat it right. $7.99 from walmart love is in the air with this unusual plant and its heart-shaped leaves. string of hearts plants are popular on instagram and look great in a macramé hanging basket. the plant itself is fast growing but you can easily trim it back if it becomes too straggly to make it look good on a perfectly curated shelf. string of hearts love to be in bright light (but out of the direct sun) and away from drafts. wilson says: “string of hearts is extremely easy to look after and very tolerant of neglect, but give it too much water and kiss it goodbye!” best fast-growing plant image: walmart the good the bad the bottom line chinese money plant (pilea peppermoides) a great plant for anyone with kids, as you can quickly and easily propagate new plants from its many offshoots. $28.99 from walmart sadly, keeping a chinese money plant won’t make you rich, but its coin-shaped leaves appear to stack on top of each other as they grow, which is cute. “it’s a quirky looking plant referred to by some as a friendship plant because it propagates so easily and quickly,” wilson explains. the little plant will keep growing coins if it’s kept out of strong sunlight and drafts, and isn’t left sitting in water. so the best way to keep it alive is to let the soil dry out between waterings. unlike with saving money, less is more here. to propagate the babies, use a clean, sharp knife to cut out the offshoots, then pot in clean, moist soil. it should take root within a few days. best for warm spaces image: walmart the good the bad the bottom line peace lily (spathiphyllum) keep a spray bottle handy and give it a spritz every so often — it'll love you for it. $31.05 from walmart the stylish peace lily is native to the tropical rainforests of colombia and venezuela. it offers a full clump of soft, dark pointed leaves with elegant white bracts in between. “these are often thought to be flowers, but the actual flowers are small and on the spike (also called the ear),” wilson says. as well as being pretty, the plant filters toxins from the air, so why not pop one on your desk and takes some deep breaths? peace lily likes a bright spot (but not in full sun) as well as warmer rooms. a plant spray or mild shower will make the peace lily think it’s back in the rainforest and you should remove wilted flowers to encourage the plant to bloom for longer. it’s definitely a pretty pick. topics: climate-environment, culture, mashable deals, plants related roundups culture how to choose the boxed mattress that's right for you culture psa for side sleepers: your pillow is probably too flat. these are better. culture the best stainless steel cookware sets that you can get on amazon culture 7 (mostly) online guitar courses that are actually worth your time culture 7 of the most comfortable travel shoes for women related reviews culture brooklinen sheets review: a nice stepping stone into luxury bedding culture what reviewers and bloggers have to say about the philips turbostar digital air fryer culture okcupid review 2019: a hip dating site that's way less lame than the competition culture elitesingles review: a career-oriented dating site with hit or miss results heads up: all products featured here are selected by mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. if you buy something, mashable may earn an affiliate commission. related roundups culture how to choose the boxed mattress that's right for you culture psa for side sleepers: your pillow is probably too flat. these are better. culture the best stainless steel cookware sets that you can get on amazon culture 7 (mostly) online guitar courses that are actually worth your time culture 7 of the most comfortable travel shoes for women related reviews culture brooklinen sheets review: a nice stepping stone into luxury bedding culture what reviewers and bloggers have to say about the philips turbostar digital air fryer culture okcupid review 2019: a hip dating site that's way less lame than the competition culture elitesingles review: a career-oriented dating site with hit or miss results masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.