i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: rilakkuma bear hugging almond shortbread meat free recipes that noodle life better than takeout sesame noodles you need to make these super simple better than take out sesame noodles! sweet, savory, and so satisfying. posted march 2, 2020 by stephanie what’s your go to order when you’re getting chinese take out? mine is beef chow fun (omg i love the heck out of that stuff) and mike goes between black bean beef chow mein and yang chow fried rice. what we never ever order is sesame noodles. but sesame noodles are a thing. i know because sesame noodles are many people’s ride or die. don’t get me wrong, i love sesame noodles. but i just never order them because, why? they’re incredibly easy to make at home – it’s literally faster than ordering takeout. once you make your first bowl of homemade sesame noodles, i guarantee you won’t be ordering them anymore. slurpable strands of chewy noodles tossed in a creamy, nutty, savory, sweet sauce. so good. plus, these are pretty much pantry noodles so you can make them any time, any where. these aren’t the spicy kind of sesame noodles by the way. if you’re looking for those, you’re probably wanting to make cheater’s dan dan noodles. these are a sweet and savory nutty noodle that everyone will love. there’s creamy richness from the sesame paste, umami from the soy sauce, tang from the rice vinegar, a bit of bite from the raw garlic, and sweetness thanks to a bit of sugar. these couldn’t be simpler to make. i like mixing up the sauce right in the bowl i’m going to eat it in, that way i have only one bowl to wash. make it a big one so you have lots of room to toss your noodles, then slurp away. happiness is a bowl full of sesame noodles, am i right? better than takeout sesame noodles creamy sesame noodles, made faster than it takes to order in! serves 1 prep time 2 mins cook time 6 mins total time 8 mins ingredients 2 tbsp chinese sesame paste 1 tbsp soy sauce 1 tbsp rice vinegar 1 tbsp toasted sesame oil 2 tsp sugar 1 clove garlic minced 4 ounces dried noodles of choice toasted sesame seeds to finish chili flakes to finish instructions in a large bowl, mix together the sesame paste, soy sauce, rice vinegar, sesame oil, sugar, and garlic. cook the noodles according to the package instructions. save 1/4 cup of the cooking water, then drain well. toss the noodles with the sauce, loosening with hot noodle water if too thick. enjoy topped with toasted sesame seeds and chili flakes if desired. 11 comments david says: march 3, 2020 at 9:21 am hi, i noticed you used the same noodles for this dish as you did in your linked dan dan noodles recipe. i know you said the noodles are the reader’s “choice” but i am curious what noodles specifically you picked? can you post a picture of the package or describe them? i assume they are white/eggless? thank you. reply mia says: march 8, 2020 at 2:35 pm it looks like the italian dried pasta mafaldine but i am curious as well. please let us know, the noodles look great. reply stephanie says: march 10, 2020 at 5:24 pm hi, they are chinese shanxi planed noodles. they’re pretty common in the dried noodle section at the asian grocery store :) reply stephanie says: march 10, 2020 at 5:27 pm hi david, i used chinese shanxi planed noodles. they’re pretty common in the dried noodle section at the asian grocery store. they’re sold in a clear plastic bag, usually with a bunch of individual packages in a bigger bag. they’re basic wheat noodles with a bit of salt. hope that helps a bit. i looked online and they don’t seem to sell them on amazon, so your best bet is to head to the asian grocery store :) reply david says: march 13, 2020 at 11:37 am that’s really helpful. thanks for taking the time to describe the noodles. reply prattenberg says: march 3, 2020 at 9:59 pm this looks totally tasty! thank you! will give it a try on the weekend :). reply hosozawa says: march 4, 2020 at 7:53 am i am curious about the noodles you used as well! reply stephanie says: march 10, 2020 at 5:38 pm hey, sorry i was a bit slow getting back to you, but they are shanxi planed noodles :) sometimes they call them knife cut noodles. they have them at the asian grocery store in the dry noodle aisle. hope that helps! reply kim says: march 4, 2020 at 1:27 pm sounds delicious. even though i love the fresh rice noodles i can buy in little saigon in orange county, i found a brand called nona lim at whole foods. they come in a pad see ew width and i just microwaved them. i was skeptical at first but they were delicious. just like fresh ones. the dangerous thing is they taste great with any kind of sauce, so i’ll have to try with this one. they were good with just sweet chilli sauce,cilantro and some peanuts. thanks so much i love your blog. kim reply keli says: march 22, 2020 at 4:14 pm yum!! this was great. had everything except toasted sesame oil and used regular sesame oil instead. thanks for an easy and tasty pantry meal!! reply stephanie says: march 23, 2020 at 4:36 pm oh yay! happy you were able to do the sub and hope you’re staying safe and healthy :) reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website better than take outchinese take outeasymeat freenoodlessesame noodlesthat noodle lifeveganvegetarian everything bagel spice aglio e olio pastaread instant pot pasta and meatballsread ziti alla norma aka eggplant and tomato pastaread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved