better homes and dimensions by the stylish radish about contact links radishworks rift haunted house on the hill posted by thestylishradish on november 22, 2017 posted in: dimensions, holiday events, rift. tagged: autumn, black cat, cake, graveyard, halloween, harvesting, haunted, hay, house, pumpkin, spooky eyes. leave a comment autumn has rolled around again for the northern hemisphere, bringing thoughts of thanksgiving and halloween, falling leaves and falling temperatures. when nouvae of dimension gallery announced her autumn harvest giveaway, i wanted to build something for that. a quintessential northern autumn was the inspiration, with themes of death and dying, the celebration of halloween and thanksgiving, all leading to my new dimension, series 600: autumn. continue reading making spooky eyes posted by thestylishradish on november 17, 2017 posted in: dimension items, guides, morphing. tagged: autumn, eyes, halloween, rift, series 600, spooky eyes. 1 comment spooky eyes peer out from a crypt. series 600: autumn by radishme@greybriar. there’s nothing spookier than a pair of eyes watching every step you take so, when making my autumn inspired dim, i just had to whip up my own spooky eyes. i wasn’t expecting the sets of spooky eyes trion created for autumn harvest but was pleased to discover that spooky eyes 04 complemented my own version. trion’s spooky eyes blink and can be placed anywhere, even mid air but are kinda small. my spooky eyes can be made in any size allowed by the tiles but need a way to hide the poles that make pupils. for my dimension, series 600: autumn, i hid the poles in the rectangular mausoleum, in other dims the eyes would work well against a wall or other flat surface. continue reading the great easter code givaway posted by thestylishradish on april 13, 2017 posted in: uncategorized. leave a comment who doesn’t like a free goodie? i’m giving out 40 of 6th anniversary parade tuskar codes over the easter period. that’s eight codes a day for 5 days, starting friday the 14th and finishing tuesday the 18th. i will use either the crossevents or the level 1-29 chat channels in rift to ask participants to guess my favourite items. i’ll give a 10 minute warning in the chosen channel before asking my question so be on the look out for announcements by radishes. first right answer wins the prize. (only one answer per tell, please.) both europe and north american regions will be included in the mount giveaways. continue reading painting with tiles posted by thestylishradish on march 30, 2017 posted in: dimension items, morphing, reader favorites, rift. tagged: apple, balloons, building block, chicken, egg, painting, portrait, signs, smiley face, theatre. 1 comment songbird theater by hawthorn@na patch 4.1 is bringing us all these pretty tiles so what do we do with them? why paint, of course! tiles are versatile, they come in handy when making custom signs, theatre backdrops, hanging wall art or labeling boxes and cartons. pictures made with them can be simple or complex, colourful or monotone, modern or old fashioned and still look great. continue reading the lowdown on dimension stashes posted by thestylishradish on march 28, 2017 posted in: dimension items, news, rift. tagged: building block, fountain, patch 4.1, plants, stashes, statue. leave a comment the poison lab will inspire bootlegger and mad scientist lab dimensions. minion dimension rewards haven’t been significantly updated since minions were introduced in the nightmare tide expansion. patch 4.1 changes all that with new stashes and dimension items. for a start, each mission length will have it’s own type of dimension stash. the 5/15 min adventures will return building block stashes, the eight hour missions will return dimension stashes and the 4 hour missions will return premium dimension stashes. the building block stashes from 5/15 minute adventures contain only building blocks, drawn from the building block section of the store. this includes all the painted woods, the roof tiles and the metals (hurrah!). the only sets of blocks missing are the glowing and blinking blocks (sad face) and the seven new blocks released with patch 4.1 (which will be included in the mystery box: wonders of alittu instead of the blinking scratchers). all the shapes are there for each block type, including discs and spheres. that’s one hell of a lot of tiles. continue reading seeing red posted by thestylishradish on march 16, 2017 posted in: dimension items, news, rift. tagged: auction house, patch 4.1, recommendations, stashes, top 1000, transcendent. 1 comment dimension stashes transcendent dimension item, morban meat tree. the new minion dimension boxes went up on the public test shards today and a bunch of us had fun opening the six-star premium dimension stashes. i blinked my eyes a few times ’cause i saw red. yep, we now have transcendent tier dimension items. you thought you lacked sufficient platinum with all the wonderful uncle stan items? just wait till these beauties hit the auction house. the stash loot tables are not yet finished and only contain relic and transcendent dimension items so it’s impossible to determine frequency of drops. numbers wise, we discovered 12 transcendent items, 46 relic items and 8 music boxes. word from tacitus says that transcendent dimension items will drop at half the frequency of relic items. continue reading eyecandy: 4650 recommendations and rising posted by thestylishradish on march 9, 2017 posted in: dimensions, opinion, rift. tagged: circus, community, competition, eyecandy, shoreward island. leave a comment the most popular dimension in rift with 4650 recommendations is new eyecandy spaceship slide 4.0 by cariina on greybriar. it beats all other dimensions by more than a thousand votes and it’s popularity keeps growing. four years after the release of dimensions, the positions on top don’t change much. once a dimension reaches the top three in the shard listings, they earn a few votes each week without the need for promotion by their owners, keeping their position on top safe. the early years were different, the struggle to reach first position was fierce and filled with less savoury practices. when the suggestion to wipe votes appears on the forums these days, i wonder if the people doing so think it an opportunity to to put their own dimensions on top of the listing. if so, eyecandy is an excellent example of the effort required to reach the top and stay there. eyecandy spaceship 4.0 by cariina on the public test shard. continue reading posts navigation ← older entries search for: recent posts haunted house on the hill making spooky eyes the great easter code givaway painting with tiles the lowdown on dimension stashes radish tweets follow @stylishradish follow blog via email enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. join 140 other followers follow follow via facebook follow via facebook categories guides holiday events landmark props voxels news opinion reader favorites regular features rift dimension items dimensions morphing uncategorized archives november 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 meta register log in entries feed comments feed wordpress.com create a free website or blog at wordpress.com. better homes and dimensions blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy