home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads the universe in verse: john cameron mitchell reads walt whitman’s beautiful least known poem the universe in verse: sarah kay reads whitman and performs her splendid song-poem “astronaut” crossing brooklyn ferry: astrophysicist janna levin reads walt whitman’s stunning serenade to our interlaced lives across space and time labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks between the body and the soul: neri oxman reads walt whitman a timeless song of praise for our belonging with “earth of the slumbering and liquid trees,” with “night of the large few stars.” by maria popova a century before computing pioneer alan turing comforted his dead soul-mate’s mother, and perhaps himself, with the insistence that “the body provides something for the spirit to look after and use,” and generations before rilke defiantly refused to become “one of those who neglect the body in order to make of it a sacrificial offering for the soul,” walt whitman (may 31, 1819–march 26, 1892) appointed himself the poet of the body and the poet of the soul in one of the most famous opening lines in all of poetry, from one of the most beloved poems in his leaves of grass — a poem that has helped holocaust survivors survive and continues to help generations endure the small everyday terrors of life. that timeless, generous poem came alive at the astronomy of walt whitman — a special miniature edition of the universe in verse on governors island in partnership with pioneer works — in a soulful performance by designer, artist, architect, inventor, and poet of matter neri oxman. half a century after rachel carson made ecology a household word, oxman coined the term material ecology — a term whitman would have cherished — to describe her singular work weaving the structures, systems, and aesthetics of nature, from silkworms to honeybees to the human breath, into our built environment. that term became the title of a visionary museum of modern art exhibition by curator paola antonelli, making oxman the first designer working in material science to have a major exhibition at a major new york art museum, a century and a half after whitman envisioned museums as places to teach us “the infinite lessons of minerals… wood, plants, vegetation.” at the time of her universe in verse performance, she had just given birth to her first child — that supreme attunement of the body and the soul in the poetry of being, an embodied consecration of whitman’s conviction, thoroughly countercultural in his day, that “it is as great to be a woman as to be a man” and that “there is nothing greater than the mother of men.” i am the poet of the body and i am the poet of the soul, the pleasures of heaven are with me and the pains of hell are with me, the first i graft and increase upon myself, the latter i translate into new tongue. i am the poet of the woman the same as the man, and i say it is as great to be a woman as to be a man, and i say there is nothing greater than the mother of men. i chant the chant of dilation or pride, we have had ducking and deprecating about enough, i show that size is only development. have you outstript the rest? are you the president? it is a trifle, they will more than arrive there every one, and still pass on. i am he that walks with the tender and growing night, i call to the earth and sea half-held by the night. press close bare-bosom’d night — press close magnetic nourishing night! night of south winds — night of the large few stars! still nodding night — mad naked summer night. smile o voluptuous cool-breath’d earth! earth of the slumbering and liquid trees! earth of departed sunset — earth of the mountains misty-topt! earth of the vitreous pour of the full moon just tinged with blue! earth of shine and dark mottling the tide of the river! earth of the limpid gray of clouds brighter and clearer for my sake! far-swooping elbow’d earth — rich apple-blossom’d earth! smile, for your lover comes. prodigal, you have given me love — therefore i to you give love! o unspeakable passionate love. couple with poet sarah kay’s wondrous performance from the same show, then revisit other timeless treasures from the full-scale universe in verse: amanda palmer reading neil gaiman’s tribute to rachel carson and his feminist poem about the history of science, marie howe reading her tribute to stephen hawking, krista tippett reading “figures of thought” by howard nemerov, regina spektor reading “theories of everything” by the astronomer and poet rebecca elson, and astrophysicist janna levin reading “a brave and startling truth” by maya angelou, “planetarium” by adrienne rich, and whitman’s classic “when i heard the learn’d astronomer.” whitman-era portrait of neri oxman by brooklyn tintype donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published february 25, 2020 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2020/02/25/neri-oxman-walt-whitman/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under bookscultureneri oxmanpoetrysoundcloudthe universe in versewalt whitman view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.