/ mark frauenfelder / 8:56 am fri mar 27, 2020 biden ad highlights trump's disastrous mismanagement of coronavirus epidemic follow us twitter / facebook / rss holy shit this @joebiden ad is good. pic.twitter.com/cagirt2zua — florida chris (@chrislongview) march 26, 2020 this biden campaign ad needs no narration. trump sinks himself. share / tweet / 30 comments #trumpplague / coronavirus get the boing boing newsletter coronavirus: disneyland resort and walt disney world resort 'closed until further notice' on friday, disney announced that disneyland resort and walt disney world resort will remain closed until further notice. read the rest watch white house coronavirus official dr. birx suck up to dear leader obsequiously “[trump is] so attentive to the scientific literature & the details & the data. i think his ability to analyze & integrate data that comes out of his long history in business has really been a real benefit.” read the rest americans are coronavirus panic-buying spiral hams and oatmilk this right here is some seriously weird data from nielsen today, about the sorts of things americans have been purchasing as the coronavirus outbreak, and corresponding fear, spread. read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest lytepop electrolyte infused popcorn is an organic, low-calorie, gluten-free and tasty trea stuck at home? us too. and all anyone can think about is food. stuffing your face for hours on end is definitely not a good way to stay healthy right now, but if you’re going to do it anyway (let’s be real—your original stash is already gone), why not improve what you’re snacking on? no, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support