close mobile menu search this website home start here about resources podcast blog health beauty mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel reviews recipes beef recipes breakfast recipes condiment recipes dessert recipes drink recipes pork recipes poultry recipes salad recipes seafood recipes side dish recipes snack recipes soup & stew recipes newsletter shop menu skip to right header navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer simple answers for healthier families about start here resources podcast blog beauty health mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel recipes reviews shop search you are here: home » blog » natural home » the rise of the modern bidet the rise of the modern bidet march 21, 2020 — by katie wells reading time: 7 minthis post contains affiliate links. click here to read my affiliate policy. table of contents[hide][show] what is a bidet? kinds of bidets+− stand-alone bidet add-on bidet bidet shower luxury bidet bidet benefits+− better clean save trees (and money) save water good for those with limited mobility good for sensitive skin bidet drawbacks+− cost and space discomfort how to use a bidet+− bottom line on bidets menstrual cups are one of those things that may seem strange at first but you fall in love with eventually. the bidet may be another. the bidet isn’t that common in the united states but is gaining in popularity. my husband and i travel quite a bit for work and have tried our fair share of bidets. here’s the good, the bad, and the ugly and why we’re considering putting one in our home. might be perfect timing since we can’t find any toilet paper at the store! what is a bidet? to put it factually (and not delicately), bidets are bathroom fixtures that use water pressure to wash genital or anal areas after using the toilet. the first bidet appeared in the 18th century in france. “bidet” is a french word for “pony.” the idea is that you straddle the bidet the same way you would a pony. at that time it was invented and for a while afterward, the bidet was used in the bedroom along with a chamber pot. in the early 20th century when modern plumbing came to be, the bidet moved to the bathroom. bidets are common in southern european countries like italy, spain, and portugal where they’re now mandatory. they’re also popular in other european countries and in some parts of south america, south-east asia, south asia, japan, and the middle east. kinds of bidets the bidet comes in three main varieties. the stand-alone bidet, the bidet shower (also called a handheld bidet or bidet sprayer), and the add-on bidet. the one that you choose will depend on your needs. stand-alone bidet the stand-alone bidet (also called a bidet toilet) looks like a low sink or water fountain (don’t drink from them!) that is often sitting right next to the toilet and takes up the same amount of space. it often has warm water and cold water knobs to adjust the temperature of the water. add-on bidet instead of having to install something new, an add-on bidet (also known as a bidet toilet seat) is an easy way to add one to your bathroom without a renovation. this is a small bidet attachment that goes on the toilet seat, or it can also be a new toilet seat with the bidet already attached. this bidet sprays water at the designated area with the touch of a button. some add-on bidets use cold water only. (it’s thought that the thin stream of water used won’t cause you to feel cold.) others tie into hot water lines or heat water themselves. some are electric and some are non-electric. bidet shower the bidet shower is a handheld plumbing fixture that’s a lot like the kitchen sink sprayer or a diaper sprayer. with this kind of bidet, you have to aim the bidet spray nozzle in the right direction. this handheld bidet sprayer can be difficult to use for people who have low mobility or injuries that make it difficult for them to do this. the bonus: it’s inexpensive and doesn’t usually require professional installation. we actually had one of these for years for cleaning cloth diapers, but i never once thought about using it as a bidet! luxury bidet still not sure you’d try one? this model has an automatic seat, remote control, massaging wash, self-cleaning function, and even blows warm air for a truly clean and dry finish! if you take your “throne” seriously, this may be the one for you. bidet benefits the bidet is an unusual (and sometimes cringe-worthy) bathroom accessory for many americans, but for others, they’re a new necessity. some people who have traveled abroad discovered the bidet during their trip and became fans. others can’t get over the strangeness of the idea. still, others are somewhere in the middle. here are some of the reasons our european friends swear we’ll never go back to tp alone once we make the switch: better clean most people agree that the bidet can give a better cleaning than toilet paper alone (especially if you’re using a water filter). and if you think about it, it makes sense. we use water to wash every other part of our body, why not the derriere? many people are beginning to use wet wipes in place of dry toilet paper. they see the benefit of using water to clean up after using the toilet. the bidet is just another way of using water to achieve the cleanest clean. save trees (and money) while many of us don’t think very much about toilet paper (or conserving it), the truth is we use a lot of toilet paper every year. having a bidet doesn’t necessarily eliminate the need for toilet paper, but it can reduce it quite a bit. americans use an average of 50 lbs of toilet paper a year. compare that to the average of countries in europe at about 23 lbs. presumably, if we used the bidet in the u.s., we could reduce toilet paper consumption by about half. there’s also the price to consider. toilet paper is considered a staple so many don’t even acknowledge the cost. but the u.s. spends 6 billion dollars annually on toilet paper! reducing toilet paper use could save a decent amount of money for each family or household. save water one unexpected benefit of the bidet is that they can actually save water. production of toilet paper uses a lot of water and if we reduce toilet paper use we also reduce water consumption. let’s do some math: the bidet uses 1/8th of a gallon of water per cleaning. in contrast, one roll of toilet paper requires 37 gallons of water (plus 1.3 kilowatt/hours (kwh) of electricity and about 1.5 pounds of wood). in my house, one roll of toilet paper doesn’t last long, especially with littles around. even if you use toilet paper along with the bidet, it can still save a lot of water. good for those with limited mobility using toilet paper is something that requires a certain level of flexibility and strength. this seems small to those of us that are fit and healthy but to others, it may be a concern. some aging people or those with injuries or disabilities may be able to regain toilet independence with the use of a bidet. that can mean a huge improvement in the quality of life for these people! good for sensitive skin for people who are prone to hemorrhoids, rashes or other issues that cause irritation, the bidet may be great. women who have just given birth may benefit from using a bidet instead of toilet paper. wiping with toilet paper can cause some irritation, and when irritation is already an issue, it can be hard to stay clean. water, on the other hand, is soothing and a great cleaning agent. additionally, toilet paper may smear bacteria around instead of removing it. a 2017 study found that bidet use reduced hemorrhoids and urogenital infections. bidet drawbacks of course, there are also some drawbacks to the bidet. here are some of the sticking points many people have when considering the switch. cost and space depending on the kind of bidet you’re after, the cost could be high. for example, if you have your heart set on a stand-alone bidet, the cost of the bidet itself isn’t the only thing to consider. many bathrooms don’t already have space next to the toilet for a bidet, so a large renovation is likely needed. even some add-on bidets can be hundreds of dollars. they have great features like heated water and timers, but you’ll pay for those. however, if you’re happy with a basic add-on bidet, the cost can be reasonable and it takes up no extra room. discomfort whether it’s just feeling weird about the bidet, or the actual physical discomfort of adjusting to bidet use, some people can have a hard time getting over the weird feelings associated with the bidet. americans, in general, have a negative association with the bidet. there are a few theories as to why. according to this article: the bidet came from france in the 18th century. britain wasn’t too friendly toward the french at that time. the theory is their sour outlook perhaps followed colonists to america. during world war ii, accounts tell of american soldiers who encountered bidets in french brothels. they could have brought home the association that bidets were immoral or dirty. americans are conservative and didn’t even like to talk about toilet paper for the longest time. (around 1930, the german paper company hakle advertised their toilet paper with conservatism in mind, “ask for a roll of hakle and you won’t have to say toilet paper!”) whatever the reason, it hasn’t caught on in the states although it’s widely used in other parts of the world. how to use a bidet for those who are ready to give the bidet a try, here are the basics for using one. after using the toilet move to the stand-alone bidet. you can straddle the bidet facing forward or facing the back (where the controls are). it depends on the model and what you want to clean. they usually don’t have bidet seats, but you can sit on the rim instead of straddling. some stand-alone bidets are designed to be filled with water like a sink. in that case, you use your hand to clean the area. others use a vertical spray of water to clean the area. adjust the temperature until it’s comfortable (you can put your hand over the stream to test). turn on the stream of water to wash the area. when using an add-on bidet, activate the bidet after using the toilet. the bidet will spray water until you turn it off. some have a drying function as well. when using a bidet shower, simply aim the showerhead at the area you want to wash and turn it on. some people use just the bidet but others use the bidet and toilet paper (either before or after bidet use). there are many varieties of bidets so it’s best to read the directions for your specific bidet before using. some have an adjustable spray, and other settings to investigate. bottom line on bidets bidets have gotten a bad rap in the u.s. (or no rap at all). but they may be a good choice as an alternative (or addition) to toilet paper. bidets are hygienic (many would argue more so than toilet paper!) and save toilet paper. toilet paper production costs a lot in water usage, wood, and energy to produce, so the bidet may be a perfect way to reduce our need for single-use products. i’ll let you know what we settle on and how we like it! have you tried a bidet? do you love or hate them (or fall somewhere in the middle)? sources: user, s. (n.d.). how much toilet paper is used per year? retrieved from http://www.southeastgreen.com/index.php/seg-features/tips-a-faqs/tips-to-green-your-life/10551-how-much-toilet-paper-is-used-per-year wipe or wash? do bidets save forest and water resources? (n.d.). retrieved from https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/earth-talks-bidets/ kiuchi, t., asakura, k., nakano, m., & omae, k. (2017, june). retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc5345955/ why don’t americans use bidets? (2015, december 13). retrieved from http://www.todayifoundout.com/index.php/2014/10/dont-americans-use-bidets/ toilet paper history: how america convinced the world to wipe. (2009, november 07). retrieved from https://www.mentalfloss.com/article/23210/toilet-paper-history-how-america-convinced-world-wipe facebook tweet pin linkedin reddit category: natural home about katie wells katie wells, ctnc, mchc, founder and ceo of wellness mama and wellnesse, has a background in research, journalism, and nutrition. as a wife and mom of six, she turned to research and took health into her own hands to find answers to her health problems. wellnessmama.com is the culmination of her thousands of hours of research and all posts are medically reviewed and verified by the wellness mama research team. katie is also the author of the bestselling books the wellness mama cookbook and the wellness mama 5-step lifestyle detox. view all posts it shouldn’t be this hard to be healthy… join the wellness mama vip email newsletter to get the latest articles, recipes, podcasts, reader discounts, and free access to my quick start guide, 7 simple steps for healthier families, and 1 week real food meal plan! you may also enjoy these posts... best alternatives to plastic water bottles coconut water kefir recipe 251: water quality and how to improve drinking water with dr. tom digiuseppe water kefir variations and recipe 171: how to keep kids water safe with tips from a water safety instructor 91: are ivs the answer to modern nutrient deficiencies with dr. craig koniver previous post: « my favorite healthy shelf-stable foods for stocking the pantry next post: 5 types of facial massage for naturally beautiful skin » reader interactions discussion (11 comments) elizabeth march 24, 2020 at 7:57 pm i’m so glad you wrote about this katie! i have been using both a bidet and a diva cup for years and have been telling everyone about it, even though it’s a bit awkward to discuss. during the covid-19 crisis as everyone is out stocking tp and tampons, i was sitting back smiling knowing i had nothing to worry about. i absolutely love the sustainability of these products and how i’m not only saving money each month, but also being kinder to our beautiful earth. if anyone is on the fence, just go get one! reply fathima march 22, 2020 at 12:23 pm as a muslim it is part of our religion to wash properly after passing urine or stool. my smaller kids will not get of the toilet till i wash them bigger ones have mastered it. we have a tap installed next to the toilet and keep a jug something like a watering can. the benefits to washing after the toilet are innumerable. reply rebecca jones march 22, 2020 at 11:54 am i first encountered the bidet in france back in the ’70’s and loved it. but i didn’t get one until 2017 and it was just a standard add on. when i upgraded my toilets to dual flush ada, i bought a “luxury” version for 1 of the toilets in the house. it’s great. i have warm water, a dryer and can adjust to which area needs cleaned. i will be getting another “luxury” bidet for the other bathroom when the contractor finally comes to finish a bathroom remodel. reply jan westfall march 22, 2020 at 9:05 am we have had the bidet toilet seat (costco) for several years and i love it. it’s a much cleaner and more thorough cleaning, and with a heated seat, warm water wash and even a night light what’s not to love?. it has a dryer function but it really doesn’t achieve total drying (at least for me) so i keep a washcloth on the tp holder to tap tap tap dry; toss in the laundry every few days. my husband hooked it up and be advised that an electrical outlet close to the toilet is needed. usually there is a video showing how to do the install. i can’t imagine not having warm water but apparently some people really don’t mind the cold water blast. the only downside is the disappointment when having to the use the bathroom away from home. i’d love to get one on every toilet in the house! reply kimberly wilks march 22, 2020 at 8:45 am we love our bidets! we got one for us and one for kids. ours is a luxury, kids is a simple one from amazon. my kids are 4,6,&8 and i was wondering if they would all adjust and use and they all took to it right away! only thing is they don’t know how to wipe without now?. reply syeda fatima march 22, 2020 at 6:00 pm i’m of indian origin, so washing with water is something i’ve always done. in north america, i sometimes fill up a plastic water bottle to use in public bathrooms. on the rare occasion i’ve used toilet paper, it leaves me feeling less clean and i can’t wait to get home and wash! for us women, it especially clean when we have our period reply chris march 22, 2020 at 8:24 am i’ve been investigating bidets this week and i haven’t found the perfect model to attach to my current toilet yet. thanks for this article with links that may help me find one. one question i have regarding the stand alone models; do people get undressed to use these things? you might as well hop in the shower with a hand held shower wand. reply marthalynn march 22, 2020 at 7:14 am we purchased a bidet toilet seat from a kickstarter campaign and have been using it for 2 years now. it comes with all the bells and whistles like heated seat and automatic functioning. for my use as a female, i usually use tp first (though much less than before) and then use the bidet for a final clean and a little more tp to blot dry. ours has a heated drying function, but it doesn’t sit well with me that i’m blowing air from the toilet around the room. am i crazy? is that something i should get over or is it a legitimate concern? my other gripe about the seat is that i feel like i can’t get my toilet as clean. before, it was a relatively simple job, no nooks or crannies really. now, there are a lot of parts to work around and i’m not sure i am getting it all. i want to love our bidet, but i’m just not there yet. reply kathleen timmins march 22, 2020 at 7:09 am and how do you dry off if it doesn’t have a blow dryer? do we keep a stack of towels next to the toilet now and launder daily? reply denyse march 21, 2020 at 5:29 pm i have never been able to figure out how a female uses the bidet without forcing the feces onto her girl bits. it conjures up visions of terrible bladder infections etc. as most of them that i have seen spray back to front. can anyone enlighten me? thank you. reply stella march 22, 2020 at 8:56 am i love my toilet seat bidet and haven’t encountered that problem because i basically aim the part i want to clean towards the spray. the spray can be adjusted from gentle to powerful. you can use a gentle stream for a longer period of time for your backside. then move your body to finish off the vaginal area. reply join the conversation... cancel reply your email address will not be published. please read the comment policy. recipe rating your comment your real name * your email address * don't subscribeallreplies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. you must enable javascript to be able to comment to leave a comment please enable javascript in your browser settings! footer sitemap start here comment policy affiliate disclosure newsletter privacy policy terms of service full disclaimer promo guidelines contact site footer the information on this website has not been evaluated by the fda and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease. by accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the terms of service, full disclaimer, privacy policy, affiliate disclosure, and comment policy. content may not be reproduced in any form. ads provided by cafemedia family & parenting network. displayed ads do not constitute endorsement or recommendation by wellness mama. copyright © 2006–2020 wellness mama® · all rights reserved · sitemap