all all members companies blog forums podcast webinars close thin menu menu video control play close thin close user log in / sign up forums newest posts trending discussions followed forums real estate news & current events landlord forums & rental property questions buying & selling real estate deal analysis see all education read biggerpockets blog coronavirus content & resources guides glossary member blogs watch webinars video library financial independence blueprint intro to real estate: rentals listen biggerpockets real estate podcast biggerpockets money podcast biggerpockets business podcast topics business operations finance finding deals property management property types strategy network recommended vendors real estate agents mortgage lenders companies hard money lenders contractors investment companies search members events jobs tools calculators rental property fix and flip brrrr rehab estimator wholesaling mortgage payment 70% rule airbnb services landlord resources lease agreement packages find deals real estate listings find foreclosures external link ads, jobs, and other bookstore real estate books the book on advanced tax strategies the book on rental property investing see all books featured book biggerpockets wealth magazine biggerpockets wealth is designed for you: the investor seeking more! this new magazine provides exclusive information that you won't get anywhere else on biggerpockets—like more connections, more inspiration, and more data-driven investing advice for your next big investment move. get the book now pricing conference search nova log in sign up user quick search links podcast hard money lenders books detroit create lasting wealth through real estate join the millions of people achieving financial freedom through the power of real estate investing. name (required) create your free account! investor type: eec4052b-bf93-4645-9c89-c5b2eac7057c created with sketchtool. newbie 87f512d0-6037-43c5-96ae-65ed724cba55 created with sketchtool. investor 4ff681d7-3eb7-4cc6-96a8-de49553207d5 created with sketchtool. vendor full name use your real name email password use at least 8 characters. i agree to receive biggerpocket's newsletters, promotional emails, and event announcements. you can withdraw your consent at any time. by signing up, you indicate that you agree to the biggerpockets terms & conditions. or btn_google_dark_normal_ios created with sketch. continue with google 3,723 people have joined biggerpockets this week! already have an account? log in as seen in: getting started at any real estate investing stage new investors user thin check thinblog check thinforums check thinpodcasts check thinwebinars check thinultimate beginner's guides learn how to invest current investors user thin arrow check thinbecome a pro member check thinlandlord resources check thinreal estate investment calculators check thinconnect with agents check thinreal estate & personal finance books check thinsearch & post real estate listings start using biggerpockets vendors user thin dollar check thinbecome a premium member check thinautomated lead generation check thinpromoted placement in company directory check thinenhanced company profile check thindedicated account manager check thinaccess to featured ad placements create company profile about biggerpockets we are a community of like-minded individuals, here to motivate and help you move toward financial success—whether that means landing your first investment property, expanding your current portfolio, networking with fellow investors and vendors, or simply bettering your financial situation. we host regularly updated resources ranging from free content in the form of forums, blog articles, podcasts, and videos to deal-evaluating calculators and a paid suite of tools and perks for plus, pro, and premium members. biggerpockets also features a marketplace—where real estate investors can list and search for off-market, investor-centric real estate deals—and a bookstore with published materials on investment techniques and real estate strategies for beginners and experts alike. biggerpockets is a complete resource for anyone looking to succeed in real estate investing we're proud to provide the following resources and more to users link blog articles link forums link calculators link podcasts link real estate listings link marketplace link company directory link mortgage loans popular content real estate investing basics jun 03, 2019 5 ways real estate can help you escape your lousy job by brandon turner do you dread going into work every single day? make a conscious decision to change your life, and start today. real estate investing can help you escape the typical 9-5 lifestyle most people accept but don’t enjoy. here’s how. read more → forums mar 25, 2020 why is rent still due during covid-19? by heather frusco i have had the opportunity to find and work with some of the best property managers (after many years) for our current properties. over the years we have gone from me just treating them like just a service i hired to us working together toward a common goal and reaching a place of trust. so a few... read more → biggerpockets real estate podcast mar 26, 2020 biggerpockets podcast 375: live coronavirus q&a: resources, tactics, and mindset shifts for today’s real estate investor by biggerpockets real estate podcast in this episode, we speak to expert investors and newbies nationwide. what you’ll learn: how hard-hit, short-term rental operators can adapt to travel restrictions; how to plan for non-payment of rent; which strategies are likely to work best in the coming economic shift; what’s going on with int... read more → webinar feb 24, 2020 how to analyze rental properties for maximum cash flow by brandon turner rental properties can be one of the world's best ways to build wealth and passive income. however - if you don't have the right math going into a deal, you'll never get the right profit coming out of it. so level up your analyzing skills in this free webinar, hosted by brandon turner of the biggerpockets podcast! you'll learn how to accurately estimate the current/future value, income, expenses, repairs, cash flow, and more! space is limited so sign up now! read more → real estate investing basics jun 03, 2019 5 ways real estate can help you escape your lousy job by brandon turner do you dread going into work every single day? make a conscious decision to change your life, and start today. real estate investing can help you escape the typical 9-5 lifestyle most people accept but don’t enjoy. here’s how. read more → forums mar 25, 2020 why is rent still due during covid-19? by heather frusco i have had the opportunity to find and work with some of the best property managers (after many years) for our current properties. over the years we have gone from me just treating them like just a service i hired to us working together toward a common goal and reaching a place of trust. so a few... read more → biggerpockets real estate podcast mar 26, 2020 biggerpockets podcast 375: live coronavirus q&a: resources, tactics, and mindset shifts for today’s real estate investor by biggerpockets real estate podcast in this episode, we speak to expert investors and newbies nationwide. what you’ll learn: how hard-hit, short-term rental operators can adapt to travel restrictions; how to plan for non-payment of rent; which strategies are likely to work best in the coming economic shift; what’s going on with int... read more → webinar feb 24, 2020 how to analyze rental properties for maximum cash flow by brandon turner rental properties can be one of the world's best ways to build wealth and passive income. however - if you don't have the right math going into a deal, you'll never get the right profit coming out of it. so level up your analyzing skills in this free webinar, hosted by brandon turner of the biggerpockets podcast! you'll learn how to accurately estimate the current/future value, income, expenses, repairs, cash flow, and more! space is limited so sign up now! read more → join a unique community with over 1,685,190 real estate enthusiasts and counting! get started if you are experiencing issues or have questions regarding our site, don't hesitate to reach out to biggerpockets customer support. contact support explore membership community education marketplace tools fileplace rei resources perks glossary company about us press advertising careers stats contact us important terms of use rules privacy faq social facebook twitter youtube instagram © 2004-2020 biggerpockets, llc. all rights reserved. apple android