home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog 2013 olympia results & my weekend recap september 30, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment here we go! it's the start to another week. time to set new goals and kick some butt this week! this past weekend went by fast. i went to the gym friday after work and then spent the rest of the night running around shopping. i am not really a fan of shopping but i needed to get some new jeans. i always end up getting express jeans because they are one of the few stores … [read more...] mom kicked out of water park for wearing a bikini july 9, 2013 by erin weiss 6 comments imagine this.... you work your ass off and lose 100 lbs by working out and eating healthy. you finally feel confident enough to put on a bikini and head to the water park to enjoy some fun in the sun with your daughter. you walk into the park and see many other girls around you wearing bikinis and you start to feel more comfortable in your own bikini...until the workers at … [read more...] competing while pregnant july 9, 2013 by erin weiss 3 comments competing while pregnant i just had to share this awesome story with you guys today. not many woman have the courage to do a competition and there sure aren't many woman that i know of that would have the courage to do a bikini competition while pregnant!!!! until today, i had never heard of a pregnant woman stepping on stage and i'm so proud of this girl. i don't know … [read more...] interview with fitness model felicia romero june 25, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment recently, i had the privilege to interview the gorgeous ifbb figure pro, felicia romero!!! felicia romero is one of my fitness girls. she has always been one of the strong women that i aspire to be like. when she agreed on doing an interview, i was so excited! felicia has 5 pro wins, she is a 5 time cover model for flex magazine in 2008 and 2009. she finished top 5 … [read more...] my fitness photo shoot april 26, 2013 by erin weiss 2 comments hey everyone!!! i wanted to make a quick post about my fitness shoot i did last night! i trained hard for this shoot and learned a lot from it as well. my day was busy busy busy. my shoot was on a thursday night which was pretty hard to plan for. i also had to work a full day before the shoot..so it was go time as soon as the alarm hit 6:30am! i woke up and my coach … [read more...] shedding the winter weight january 29, 2013 by erin weiss 9 comments like everyone, i tend to put on some extra weight during the winter months. with the holidays and my bikinis packed away for months due to the cold weather, i always seem to gain some weight. it never fails! this year wasn't much different, except i had an added reason for a little weight gain. since about a month after my competition, i have been in "building" mode. i … [read more...] the cost of competing in a bikini competition january 8, 2013 by erin weiss 6 comments since my competition, i've had a lot of people ask me how much it costs to compete. luckily for you, i kept a very detailed log of everything i was spending on my journey to the stage. if you didn't read about my show experience, you can see it here: part 1, part 2, part 3 & part 4. i'm going to be honest, i spent much more than i thought i would. i'm also the type of … [read more...] 2013 goals january 7, 2013 by erin weiss 4 comments i know this post is a little late, but i wanted to wish everyone a happy new year!!!! i hope you guys reached your goals and stuck with your 2012 resolutions. my year of 2012 was absolutely amazing. here are a couple highlights of my 2012. 2012 highlights: published fitness model in a magazine became a certified personal trainer started a personal training … [read more...] fitness america midwest championships picture october 24, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment i finally got my first professional picture back from the photographer who shot my competition! i was so excited about it that i had to share it with you guys! fitness america midwest championships 2012 - bikini tall class sportswear/theme-wear costume: chicago bulls luvabull photographer: don bersano photography location: palatine, il (harper college) the cd is … [read more...] my first bikini competition – part 4 september 28, 2012 by erin weiss 7 comments if you missed the first part of my first bikini competition series, you can see them here. part 1 part 2 part 3 as i stood underneath the bright lights in my teeny tiny bikini with 13 other bombshells, we awaited the judge's to call out the top 5. the announcer first called out #26 for 5th place. as soon as i looked at who it was, i knew there was no chance of me … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in