billboard subscribe sign in upgrade subscribe sign in my account sign out charts weekly hot 100 billboard 200 artist 100 pop songs breaking and entering digital song sales all weekly charts year-end year-end hot 100 songs year-end billboard 200 albums 2019 year-end boxscore all year-end charts decade-end decade-end top artists decade-end top artists - interactive decade-end hot 100 songs decade-end billboard 200 albums all decade-end charts news genres pop hip-hop/r&b dance country latin rock k-pop topics year in music 2019 pride podcasts international all news video billboard news quizzed cover&#39;d how it went down emerging artists: you should know my billboard moment all videos photos pro industry news legal and management executive turntable touring record labels streaming tech publishing radio all news pro tools close calls deep dive insights chart search boxscore billboard bulletin artist index song index pro charts pop songs hot r&b / hip-hop songs hot country songs songwriters & producers view all pro charts newsletters subscribe sign in view profile upgrade follow billboard about billboard terms of use privacy policy about our ads advertising © 2019 billboard. all rights reserved. billboard is a subsidiary of valence media, llc. events the real honda stage hot 100 billboard 200 festivals podcasts chart beat events hot 100 billboard 200 chart search boxscore chart beat touring coronavirus here are all the live streams & virtual concerts to watch during coronavirus crisis (updating) here are all the major music events canceled due to coronavirus (updating) a state-by-state resource guide for music professionals who need help during coronavirus crisis (updating) will summer album releases be coronavirus’ next victim? top headlines first stream: new music from dua lipa, partynextdoor, pearl jam & more looking ahead: a release calendar for upcoming albums the 13 best things that happened in music this week (march 27) breaking down dua lipa’s ‘future nostalgia,’ rihanna’s new feature & more on ‘first stream live’ how coronavirus will reshape the concert business viva friday playlist: new music by sebastian yatra with ricky martin & more looking back on backstreet boys’ ‘shape of my heart,’ the ultimate boy band-turned-man band single 10 songs from 2000 that predicted pop music’s future the hot 100 roddy ricch billboard 200 lil uzi vert pop songs dua lipa adult contemporary maroon 5 latin viva friday playlist: new music by sebastian yatra with ricky martin &amp; more bad bunny dresses in drag for empowering 'yo perreo sola' music video vote for your favorite selena music video, from 'bidi bidi bom bom' to 'amor prohibido' journeying from youtube covers to inspired originals, daniela andrade finds musical maturity in 'tamale' hip-hop/r&b from kanye west & pharrell to dr. dre & dj premier: 7 beat battles we want to see 10 songs from 2000 that predicted pop music's future nav, gunna & travis scott join forces again on 'turks' is there another 'old town road' in nine inch nails' new 'ghosts v-vi' albums? featured gallery scenes from a drive-in concert: photos view the gallery pride jaimie wilson takes a painful trip down memory lane in 'homesick' video parson james gets 'vulnerable' on demo for his new single 'fallin on me' monét x change wants to 'pump you up' with energetic self-isolation playlist bad bunny dresses in drag for empowering 'yo perreo sola' music video k-pop's merch madness for the k-pop industry, merch is as important as the music meet the fan who spent more than $10,000 on a single k-pop act the clothes make the fan news dua lipa, partynextdoor & more: what’s your favorite new music release this week? vote! news lecrae set us free with inspirational pep talks during billboard live at-home concert country just another day in paradise: the small-stakes sweetness of country radio in 2000 hip-hop murda beatz is on a mission to become the biggest producer-artist in hip-hop chart beat chart beat album sales hit new weekly low in u.s. -- but there is a bright spot chart beat chart beat the weeknd's 'blinding lights' vs. roddy ricch's 'the box' for no. 1 on hot 100 next week plus, kenny rogers' "the gambler" is likely to lead in sales. chart beat chart beat cage the elephant ties for most rock airplay top 10s &#34;black madonna&#34; rises 11-10, marking cage&#39;s 12th top 10. pop pop with ‘supernova,’ caitlyn smith breaks out of the writers room and into the limelight business business house passes $2 trillion coronavirus relief package with benefits for music workers chart beat chart beat kenny rogers debuts 12 songs on lyricfind u.s. chart following death &#34;islands in the stream,&#34; with dolly parton, is his highest-ranking song. live live roger waters postpones 'this is not a drill' tour dates executive turntable executive turntable live nation sweden names mattias behrer new ceo billboard newsletter get our music news in your inbox daily. thank you! you will start seeing emails from us soon. please be sure to check out all of our newsletters! by clicking submit, i agree to the terms of use and privacy policy. all our charts 1 country airplay country airplay jake owen 1 hot dance/electronic songs hot dance/electronic songs lady gaga 1 r&b/hip-hop airplay r&b/hip-hop airplay roddy ricch photos! closed concert venues: photos of shuttered spaces across america view the gallery kenny rogers: life in photos lizzo, miley cyrus & more of the best celeb live stream videos diplo: photos from the billboard cover shoot broadway here are all the live streams & virtual concerts to watch during coronavirus crisis (updating) michael jackson estate donates to musicares, broadway amid coronavirus outbreak david byrne's 'american utopia' to be adapted for book broadway star aaron tveit tests positive for coronavirus: 'this can affect anyone' chart beat album sales hit new weekly low in u.s. -- but there is a bright spot the weeknd's 'blinding lights' vs. roddy ricch's 'the box' for no. 1 on hot 100 next week cage the elephant ties for most rock airplay top 10s with ‘supernova,’ caitlyn smith breaks out of the writers room and into the limelight country 'tiger king' joe exotic is the next big country star: see his 7 best songs country star joe diffie tests positive for coronavirus with ‘supernova,’ caitlyn smith breaks out of the writers room and into the limelight kenny rogers debuts 12 songs on lyricfind u.s. chart following death rock alex gaskarth reveals why all time low didn't delay album during billboard live at-home concert the birthday massacre keeps shining on eighth album 'diamonds' is there another 'old town road' in nine inch nails' new 'ghosts v-vi' albums? cage the elephant ties for most rock airplay top 10s live coverage scenes from a drive-in concert: photos yungblud urges fans to 'sanitize, sanitize, sanitize' during concert live stream with mgk & bella thorne lovr benefit featuring coldplay's chris martin has been postponed due to coronavirus 8 tips for attending concerts & avoiding coronavirus magazine customer service subscribe buy this issue sharing billboard facebook twitter youtube instagram tumblr pinterest spotify newsletter explore billboard shop magazine archive information jobs billboard events contact us sitemap faq feedback billboard © 2020 billboard. all rights reserved. terms of use privacy policy about our ads advertising billboard is a subsidiary of prometheus global media, llc. the billboard biz subscriber experience the biz premium subscriber content has moved to billboard.com/business. to simplify subscriber access, we have temporarily disabled the password requirement. continue to billboard biz content don't show again