jump directly to the content the sun, a news uk companyclose your sun sign in editions uk edition scottish sun irish sun news corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services. follow the sun the sun the sun uk the scottish sun the irish sun dream team news corp wsj.com new york post the australian news.com.au storyful harper collins realtor.com talksport services sign up to the sun about us editorial complaints clarifications and corrections news licensing advertising contact us help hub topic a-z cookie settings contact preferences top sign in us edition uk edition scottish sun irish sun search home news entertainment lifestyle sport all football all news us news world news uk news locked gates bill gates warns lockdown could last 10 weeks and should be ‘nationwide’ – as trump wants to restart economy in days jack williams mar 26 2020, 23:26 et updated: mar 27 2020, 13:50 et jack williams invalid date, bill gates has warned that a “super painful” period of social isolation should now be the top priority in fighting the coronavirus across the us. the microsoft founder was speaking as part of an ongoing cnn town hall on the pandemic and said that six to 10 weeks of hardcore isolation nationwide is now necessary. 6 bill gates has warned that a "super painful" period of social isolation is needed to fight the coronaviruscredit: getty - contributor 6 the microsoft founder said president trump's plans to reopen the country by april are not realistic, and social isolation could last six to 10 weekscredit: reuters 6 the billionaire has advised social distancing, seen practiced here by officers here in newark, new jerseycredit: ap:associated press the billionaire philanthropist also said that president trump’s statements about potentially having the county open again in april are “not realistic,” pointing to the fact that the number of cases are still going up. this approach to isolation should not be county by county but on a national scale, he added. gates, whose bill and melinda gates foundation has pledged $100 million to fighting the pandemic, said: “so far, not a single state has reached the crucial point where case numbers are plateauing and beginning to decrease - meaning it is unlikely we have reached the peak yet. "we're entering into a tough period... if we do it right, we'll only have to do it once for 6 to 10 weeks, but... it has to be the whole country." he added: "it is super painful to drive this very high degree of social isolation i call shutdown. "the middle course really isn't there because it's hard to say, oh, go back to the theater for a week maybe or maybe not you'll be infected or infecting people." 6 gates believes people may not want to go back to work or a consumerist lifestyle knowing the risk of the virus is still at largecredit: reuters with schools likely to remain closed until the end of the academic year, gates, 64, said, "the light is not at the end of the tunnel in terms of a mid-april reopening." he also questioned people's willingness to go back to daily life and a consumerist approach if the threat of the virus was still prevalent. he said: "until we get the certainty we've hit these low numbers, you know, i doubt even if you told people that they should be buying new houses and cars and hanging out in restaurants, i doubt they're going to want to do that. "people want to protect older people." prior warnings after gate's interview, the total number of cases of the disease in the us surged to 92,932 with over 1,300 deaths on friday, march 27. back in 2015, as part of a ted talk, gates warned that the greatest threat to mankind was not that of nuclear war, but a pandemic. "not much has happened," gates said when asked if his calls for more funding for pandemic preparation and vaccines had been met. the 64-year-old pointed to other countries, particularly those in asia, as examples the u.s. should be following. most read in us news sicko woman who ‘coughed on store food' & shouted ‘i have the virus’ charged with terrorism sick advice outrage as coronavirus 'expert' wrongly tells pregnant women to have abortions tragedy on the seas four passengers die on cruise ship after 138 sick - some with virus trump'$ trillion$ president signs largest ever bailout in us history to combat virus ‘violent’ death europe’s youngest coronavirus victim, 16, ‘just had a cough’ & went home breaking grim tally us virus cases pass 100k with deaths above 1,500 as infections soar in nyc those hit by sars in 2003, gates said, "are the ones that have done best in this epidemic because they acted when the number of cases were still very, very small." he added: "basically the whole country needs to do what was done in the part of china where they had these infections." there was, however, some light at the end of the tunnel, gates said, pointing out that vaccine trials are now underway. 6 the bill and melina gates foundation has pledged $100 million to help fight the coronavirus pandemiccredit: afp or licensors 6 gates pointed to the leaders of asian countries that dealt with sars as examples to followcredit: epa do you have a story for the us sun team? email us at exclusive@the-sun.com or call 212 416 4552. topics coronavirus bill gates donald trump comments are subject to our community guidelines, which can be viewed here. more from the sun know the signs is chest pain a symptom of coronavirus? 0 comments incubation time how long does coronavirus last in your system? 0 comments sicko woman who ‘coughed on store food' & shouted ‘i have the virus’ charged with terrorism 0 comments sick advice outrage as coronavirus 'expert' wrongly tells pregnant women to have abortions 0 comments tragedy on the seas four passengers die on cruise ship after 138 sick - some with virus 0 comments follow the sun services sign up to the sun about us editorial complaints clarifications and corrections news licensing advertising contact us help hub topic a-z cookie settings contact preferences © 2020 the sun, us, inc. all rights reserved | terms of use | privacy | your ad choices | sitemap