skip to content 3× annual “best of” apple podcasts 400+ million episodes downloaded 8,000+ 5-star reviews the blog of author tim ferriss tim ferriss's 4-hour workweek and lifestyle design blog. tim is an author of 5 #1 nyt/wsj bestsellers, investor (fb, uber, twitter, 50+ more), and host of the tim ferriss show podcast (400m+ downloads) latest episode: dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more (#417) https://rss.art19.com/episodes/206cd7fc-e344-4897-b31b-d038e19f5330.mp3download menu home podcast all episodes and guests sponsorship and advertising newsletter books tim’s books the tim ferriss book club about tim ferriss bio causes media kit and samples terms of service disclosure – the full monty privacy policy contact media kit and samples contact corrections? please fill out this form. jobs search for: search bio “a cross between jack welch and a buddhist monk.” — the new york times short version: tim ferriss has been listed as one of fast company’s “most innovative business people” and one of fortune’s “40 under 40.” he is an early-stage technology investor/advisor (uber, facebook, shopify, duolingo, alibaba, and 50+ others) and the author of five #1 new york times and wall street journal bestsellers, including the 4-hour workweek and tools of titans: the tactics, routines, and habits of billionaires, icons, and world-class performers. the observer and other media have called tim “the oprah of audio” due to the influence of the tim ferriss show podcast, which is the first business/interview podcast to exceed 100 million downloads. it has now exceeded 400 million downloads. long-winded version: getting into the weeds, tim is the author of the following books, listed from oldest to newest: the 4-hour workweek — translated into 35+ languages; #1 new york times, wall street journal, and businessweek bestseller. the 4-hour body — #1 new york times bestseller. the 4-hour chef — #1 wall street journal and new york times bestseller; winner of a gourmand “best in the world” award at the 18th annual paris cookbook awards. tools of titans — #1 new york times bestseller. tribe of mentors — #1 new york times advice/how-to, #1 new york times business, #1 wall street journal tim is listed as #6 in the “top 20 angel investor” rankings for 2014 (see his deals here), and newsweek calls him “the world’s best guinea pig,” which he takes as a compliment. his podcast, the tim ferriss show — focused on deconstructing world-class performers — is often ranked #1 across all of itunes (also selected for “best of itunes” three years running). this blog is one of inc. magazine’s “19 blogs you should bookmark right now“, and it has been ranked #1 on the top 150 management and leadership blogs list, based on google pagerank, alexa traffic ranking, bing results, postrank, and more. tim’s twitter account was selected by mashable as one of “5 must-follow twitter accounts for entrepreneurs,” a list including richard branson, mark cuban, marissa mayer, and jack dorsey. tim has been featured by more than 100 media outlets—including the new york times, the economist, late night with jimmy fallon, time, forbes, fortune, cnn, and cbs—and was a popular guest lecturer at princeton university from 2003-2013, where he discussed entrepreneurship as a tool for world change and ideal lifestyle design. he also serves on the advisory board of donorschoose.org, an educational non-profit and the first charity to make the fast company list of 50 most innovative companies in the world. tim has been invited to speak at some of the world’s most innovative organizations, including google, mit, harvard business school, nike, facebook, the central intelligence agency (cia), microsoft, and palantir. he has also been invited to keynote at dozens of summits and events, including ted, the eg, e-tech, sxsw, leweb, and the web 2.0 exposition, where he shared the stage with figures like eric schmidt, chairman of the board of google, and jeff bezos, founder and ceo of amazon. tim has amassed a diverse (and certainly odd) roster of experiences. most of the below are from 1999-2009: princeton university guest lecturer in high-tech entrepreneurship and electrical engineering finance and entrepreneurship advisor at singularity university at nasa ames, co-founded by peter diamandis and ray kurzweil. first american in history to hold a guinness world record in tango speaker of 5 languages (video samples here) national chinese kickboxing champion horseback archer (yabusame) in nikko, japan 2009 henry crown fellow at the aspen institute political asylum researcher wired magazine’s “greatest self-promoter of 2008” tim received his ba from princeton university in 2000, where he focused on language acquisition and east asian studies. he developed his nonfiction writing with pulitzer prize winner john mcphee and formed his life philosophies under nobel prize winner kenzaburō ōe. he is far dumber than both. tim enjoys bear claws, chocolate croissants, writing “about” pages in third person, and neglecting italics. tim ferriss on instagram tim ferriss on twitter tim ferriss on facebook tim ferriss on youtube tim ferriss on huffington post tim ferriss on ted tim ferriss on angellist share this: facebook twitter email reddit print join 1.5m+ subscribers and receive exclusive tools, tips, and resources directly from tim: type your email address yes, sign me up for tim's free email newsletter. i agree to the privacy policy. get access twitter instagram facebook youtube linkedin click to subscribe apple podcasts spotify overcast popular podcasts brené brown — striving versus self-acceptance, saving marriages, and more (#409) how to support healthcare workers now — plus urgent suggestions for uber eats, hilton, amazon, and more (#416) jack kornfield — how to find peace amidst covid-19, how to cultivate calm in chaos (#414) the top 25 episodes of the tim ferriss show from 2019 most popular pages 11 reasons not to become famous (or “a few lessons learned since 2007”) podcast – the tim ferriss show the best books and articles i read in 2019 finding the one decision that removes 100 decisions (or, why i’m reading no new books in 2020) topics 30-day challenges (2) 4-hour case studies (50) automation (7) comfort challenges (4) dance (3) e-mail detox (23) entrepreneurship (60) fearless (2) filling the void (93) gadgets (15) geoarbitrage (8) interviews (29) investing (18) language (16) low-information diet (42) marketing (54) mental performance (42) mini-retirements (24) muse examples (9) nonsense (5) opening the kimono – otk (4) outsourcing life (17) physical performance (51) practical philosophy (39) presentations (3) protecting time (14) psychedelics (14) quarterly shipments (3) random (29) remote offices (7) rockstar living in… (5) rust and iron (2) science (5) the 4-hour body – 4hb (48) the 4-hour chef – 4hc (39) the 4-hour chef recipes (1) the book – 4hww (44) the slow-carb diet (4) the tim ferriss experiment – tfx (11) the tim ferriss show (394) the tim ferriss show transcripts (256) tim ferriss book club (6) tools of titans (8) travel (67) tribe of mentors (10) writing and blogging (35) books by tim ferriss the 4-hour workweek the 4-hour body the 4-hour chef tools of titans tribe of mentors we use cookies and similar technologies to run this website and help us understand how you use it. see our cookie policy here. sitemap site terms of service privacy policy copyright © 2007–2020 tim ferriss. the 4-hour® is a registered trademark of tim ferriss. all rights reserved. privacy policy proudly powered by wordpress | hosted by pressable send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.