welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog realizing her dream of becoming a certified teacher: meet, jess published on: oct 12, 2017 by carolyn tiernan 3672 views 2 comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post as a middle school teacher, i need to be up to date on all of the subject matter that i am teaching to my students. however, once you’re out of grade school yourself, that material can be easy to forget! i was hired at my current school with a three year intern license, and was recently at the point in my career where i was... read more about realizing her dream of becoming a certified teacher: meet, jess don’t fear the fin: 7 unique facts about sharks published on: jul 24, 2017 by zahra islam 5103 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post it’s the most wonderful time of the year! for shark and marine animal lovers, that is.sunday kicked off discovery channel’s much anticipated shark week, the network’s annual tribute to some of the ocean’s most mysterious – and misunderstood – creatures. since it first aired in 1988, this week of programming is meant to promote conservation efforts educate viewers about misconceptions around sharks.celebrate the start of... read more about don’t fear the fin: 7 unique facts about sharks how to start your stem career – six science courses published on: jul 12, 2017 by carolyn tiernan 8004 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post the shortage of qualified candidates for stem – science, technology, engineering, and mathematics – jobs has dominated headlines in recent years. there were nearly 8.6 million stem jobs in may 2015, representing 6.2 percent of u.s. employment, and this will only increase in the years ahead. in fact, many top companies, such as ge, have launched workplace initiatives to curate and train talent to fill... read more about how to start your stem career – six science courses health, biology and architecture. courses starting soon on edx! published on: feb 05, 2016 by monil shah 4988 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn how to effectively train your body, what the most violent things in our universe are, or how to better present data using excel. edx offers courses from top universities and organizations to help you gain the skills and knowledge you need to be successful. have you ever wondered, “what is microbiology?” or wondered what courses a student should take to become a data scientist? find the course for you and enroll today!... read more about health, biology and architecture. courses starting soon on edx! philosophy, apps & music. courses starting soon on edx! published on: jan 29, 2016 by monil shah 4097 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post explore our courses and enroll today! learn how to better study consciousness, interact with virtual patients or build the next big mobile app. edx has exciting new courses starting soon in a variety of subjects to help enhance your skills and knowledge. business, language and engineering. courses starting soon on edx! published on: jan 22, 2016 by justine goulart 5678 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn something new with edx learn a new language, how to pitch to a venture capitalist, or understand the different notes and chords of a song. with over 85 global partners, edx courses offer high-quality education from the world’s leading universities. whether you’re looking to expand your knowledge or develop a new skill, edx has the course for you. check out our courses and enroll today! music, finance and history. courses starting soon on edx! published on: jan 15, 2016 by justine goulart 4480 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post explore our courses and enroll today! learn how to better prepare for a natural coastal disaster, identify important aspects of music just by listening to it or build a movie recommendation search engine using python. edx has exciting new courses starting soon in a variety of subjects to help enhance your skills and knowledge. david neary: edx ap courses provide opportunity published on: dec 08, 2015 by becky pineo 4578 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post using edx to supplement a high school curriculum david neary, age 18, from attleboro, ma, first contacted us in april to share his progress. we’re sharing his edx story as part of computer science education week and hour of code, to highlight how learning to code can compliment other areas of study. join the #hourofcode movement by enrolling in an edx coding course! i first... read more about david neary: edx ap courses provide opportunity music, business, and apps. exciting courses starting soon! published on: nov 13, 2015 by justine goulart 4962 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post whether you want to learn about cultures in south asia, design effective computer systems, understand your rights or lend your ear to 18th century musical performances, edx has the course that will help you gain knowledge and learn new skills. explore edx courses and start learning today! learn about genetics, medicine, history and more with new edx courses published on: oct 23, 2015 by justine goulart 5855 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post discover the thrill of learning how to code, understand the science behind election issues and voting, or become a more informed consumer about medicine. edx has exciting new courses starting soon in a range in topics, from business to physics. explore our courses and enroll today! page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close