home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library food and drink recipes prevnext blackberry, strawberry and dark chocolate chip food processor ice cream recipe – no ice cream maker needed! leyla preston fri 18th aug 2017 4shares share tweet pin i love blackberry season, partly because blackberries are my favourite of all berries and also because it’s a great way to spend time with the kids and teach them all about the beauty of nature and free fruit picking! i have been blackberry picking with the boys for three years now and every year we’ve tried to up the stakes in our blackberry recipe creations. back in 2014 – aron, 3 years old blackberries grow in abundance and can be typically found in the uk between june and november, however, they are at their peak in august/september. you can either try to grow your own blackberries in your back garden (we are very lucky as we have blackberries growing in our back garden already) or you can just step outside and find a road which has ample hedgerows along your path. blackberries grow on brambles, which are found nearby woodland, hedges, waste grounds and pretty much anywhere where weed has been allowed to grow, seeing as these blackberry brambles are typically seen as weeds. 2017 – aron (6) and aidan (5) it’s best to pick the blackberries which have been growing in direct sunlight as these offer the most flavour. also, pick blackberries above knee height, as the lower blackberries will have been tarnished by pee from animals and could post dangerous risks when ingested. here is a great link on how to pick wild blackberries. this year, we’ve really surpassed ourselves, creating one heck of a tasty ice cream made fresh out of homemade blackberries from a beautiful back garden. we added vanilla, strawberries and dark chocolate to the mix and, boy, was this the best ice cream we have ever tasted! plus, we didn’t need a fancy ice cream maker to create this soft scoop ice cream – we used a food processor! it’s very simple to make food processor ice cream – you gently heat up the double cream with the sugar and honey so both are dissolved well. granulated sugar is better as it helps to achieve a better ‘soft scoop’ texture. however, i didn’t want to overdue it too much on sugar and opted for a mix of honey/brown sugar in this instance. then just take the mix off the heat and add your vanilla extract which will essentially turn the cream into non frosted vanilla ice cream. place the mix in the bowl and freeze overnight. you can leave the mix as it is and enjoy homemade vanilla ice cream, but i decided to incorporate the blackberries we had freshly picked and what was left of the strawberries in our fridge and dark chocolate in our cupboard. all the ingredients complemented each other and the result is a gentle stawberry/blackberry flavoured ice cream with a hint of dark chocolate to spruce up the palate. think mint choc chip ice cream, but, obviously without the mint and with the strawberries and blackberries! enjoy 🙂 [yumprint-recipe id=’2′] so what are your top tips for picking wild blackberries? please share your tasty blackberry recipes in the comments below! i’d love to give them a try. read my main post on ‘how to make the most of blackberry season’ here check out my ‘blackberry pie recipe’ here you got to try my homemade ‘blackberry jam’ here and these delicious ‘almond and blackberry biscuit squares’ will go down a treat with a nice hot cup of something. leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:blackberry seasondessertfood processor recipesice creamrecipesummer related posts lemon & blueberry cheesecake recipe tips on how to cope with the heat during... turkish flatbread (gözleme) recipe brantano clarks ballerina shoes – ... get out and about this summer with muddy... fieldlife ss14 boys drawstring shorts pr... golden & peanut butter oreo vienett... april 2014 – degustabox product re... bengal chicken curry spanish paella – schwartz flavour shot r... almond and blackberry biscuit squares re... how to enjoy a proper sit-down family me... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sici... golden & peanut butter oreo vienett... healthy shepherd’s pie recipe summer berries crunch cake recipe chocolate lemon mousse with a blackberry... grilled bell peppers drizzled with clove... the best road trips in europe for the fa... cauliflower pizza recipe rainbow omelette cakes recipe for organi... apple and berries cake recipe 21 travel hacks you need to know this su... blackberry pie recipe why we decided to use an airport car par... july summer 2017 degustabox review protect your children’s eyes this summer... recipe – snowcapped chocolate fond... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sard... riverford for organix no junk lunchboxes... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 4shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok