u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost black voices. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition black voices cardi b racial discrimination cultural appropriation michael b. jordan my hair, my story: celebrating the glorious crowns of black women this mayor is giving people $500 a month, no strings attached. here’s his advice for trump. as the coronavirus pandemic shatters the economy, stockton, california, mayor michael tubbs has two words for the president: "go big." by laura paddison meghan markle, prince harry officially move to los angeles: report the duke and duchess of sussex moved back to meghan's hometown, according to people. by carly ledbetter trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad harlem globetrotters legend curly neal dead at 77 neal played for the globetrotters from 1963-85, appearing in more than 6,000 games in 97 countries. by john marshall, ap ny gov. andrew cuomo thanks rihanna for donation of personal protective equipment additionally, the singer's clara lionel foundation previously announced that it had donated $5 million to organizations fighting the coronavirus pandemic. by kimberley richards newsletter sign up black voices amplifying black voices through news that matters. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. jussie smollett marks 'quarantine day 421' with cryptic instagram video the former "empire" star sang a stevie wonder hit while alluding to the date he claimed to have been attacked in a racist and anti-lgbtq hate crime. by curtis m. wong lizzo leads live online meditation, plays flute for fans in coronavirus crisis the singer-rapper called her session, "a practice in connectivity during this social distance." by kimberley richards domestic abuse victims need more help as coronavirus spreads, senators say two dozen senators urged the trump administration to not forget domestic violence survivors as the government addresses the pandemic. by alanna vagianos kevin hart and his wife eniko parrish share stunning news "we're counting our blessings and couldn't be more grateful," parrish wrote on instagram. by ron dicker the megan thee stallion-approved ‘savage challenge’ is helping keep us all sane keara wilson, a 19-year-old choreographer, created the dance that’s going viral and got the rapper’s single to no. 1 on itunes. by taryn finley nba star says mother is in coma with coronavirus symptoms "the severity of this disease is real," the minnesota timberwolves center said in a heart-wrenching video as the covid-19 outbreak rages. by ron dicker how quarantine culture is blurring online dating and reality tv as more people are stuck at home and reality shows pause production, the search for love continues via our screens — and instagram feeds. by leigh blickley and emma gray taylor swift hasn't responded to kim kardashian, but her best friend just went in with the two megastars feuding again, swift pal todrick hall tried to shame kardashian over her infamous sex tape. by cole delbyck former nba player jason collins tests positive for coronavirus collins, who in 2013 was the first openly gay athlete in a major american professional sports league, believes he caught covid-19 during a nyc trip. by reuters women expecting babies during coronavirus ask: who will be with me in labor? no partners. no doulas. giving birth alone is hardly what these women had in mind. by catherine pearson idris and sabrina elba, who both have covid-19, explain why they didn't stay apart the husband and wife both now have the coronavirus, but tell oprah winfrey they have no regrets. by ron dicker idris elba releases song about self-quarantine, positive coronavirus diagnosis "creating is living right now," the actor said. "music therapy." by kimberley richards in the time of coronavirus, this is how we party as covid-19 creates the need for social distancing and quarantine, people are turning to video-chatting platforms to keep themselves sane and connected. by emma gray trevor noah slaps partying spring breakers with searing reminder about coronavirus “coronavirus is the harvey weinstein of diseases. it does not ask for consent, my friend," warned the "daily show” host. by lee moran homeless families in los angeles take over vacant homes as coronavirus spreads “since the government’s not doing their job, we the people have to take power into our own hands,” said a mother occupying one state-owned property. by sarah ruiz-grossman newsletter sign up black voices amplifying black voices through news that matters. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost black voices. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.