us edition u.s. canada u.k. australia brazil españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) maghreb quebec close news u.s. news world news business environment health social justice politics congress donald trump 2020 election tracker extremism entertainment culture & arts media celebrity tv & film life style & beauty food & drink parenting travel finds wellness relationships money home & living work/life communities queer voices women black voices latino voices asian voices special projects impact: project zero impact: this new world highline listen to america podcasts black history month 2020 huffpost personal video horoscopes from our partners headstrong women's work my hair, my story what's working: purpose + profit newsletters coupons international australia brazil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) quebec u.k. u.s. follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. breaking news tap here to turn on desktop notifications to get the news sent straight to you. open search log in join huffpost plus news politics 2020 elections entertainment community life personal video shopping u.s. canada u.k. australia brazil españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) maghreb quebec u.s. edition black history month 2020 explore the ways black american life is integral to today's conversations about politics and culture in this multipart project, we dedicate 29 days to untangling black hair conversations, unpacking the many desires of black voters and underscoring the importance of black people's contributions to food and culture. let this february be a reminder for some and a lesson for others that the traditions of black americans are embedded in the fabric of this country. we belong here. black at the ballot meet the voters meet the voters in this multimedia project, residents of columbia, south carolina, share their hopes and hesitations on the eve of the first big measure of how black voters are sizing up the 2020 presidential candidates. more coverage today is national voter registration day! we made it easy for you to exercise your right to vote! register now! news politics entertainment life communities huffpost personal video newsletters huffpost about us advertise about our ads contact us rss faq careers archive user agreement privacy policy comment policy huffpost press room coupons part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.