skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search black swan a concept i learned from nassim taleb i find very practical in thinking about life: there will always be “freak accidents” (black swans, things that come out of nowhere) in reality. the benefit of studying the past — realizing that so many people in the past are generally caught with their pants down before a crisis or calamity happens. why should we think about black swans? it essentially means this: we cannot predict the future, regardless of how much data we got from the past. the real world is 100000000000×10000000000 more complicated, complex, chaotic, random, and insane than we think it is. why plan? black swan abstract by eric kim x matisse which brings us to the question: why is the discipline of “planning” so crammed down our throats? i think it’s about fear-mitigation. this means that we try to prevent scary and uncertain things from happening in the future by “planning” better. limits of planning let us give a real case — corona virus. could anyone in a trillion years have predicted this would have happened? no. why not? there’s no precedence for this! nothing quite like this has happened. how can we predict something which hasn’t ever happened? this means from a practical perspective — don’t plan your life too much. better to be flexible, nimble, and able to adapt. which organisms survive and thrive on earth — an environment fraught with extreme chaos and uncertainty? the animals which can actually benefit and thrive from the chaos and insanity. expect worse than worse first step seems to become a stoic. stoicism as giving the “fuck you” to fate. to become more indifferent towards life, death, etc. what did alexander the great read? allegedly alexander the great has a copy of the iliad by his bedside. he strove to emulate the courage of achilles. ultimately what is reality? risk taking, courage, and exposure to embodied reality. all else is false. philosophy by kim dictate your meaning and purpose in your life with zen of eric: ethics tolerance art is above morals and ethics aesthetics are ethics morality and ethics philosophical essays things will never go back to the way they used to be what are you *really* afraid of? happiness isn’t the goal philosophy is king why is selfish evil? you’re constantly in a state of becoming entitlement a sin? narcissism be brutally honest with yourself why free will? obey your opinion ego is good. why it is good to be into yourself seek the good pain anti-perfection in photography, art, and life can you become an end into yourself? why i live why i hate decline why i eat why am i so positive and optimistic? effort is enjoyment never stop gaining trust yourself a life of maximal personal independence what do you desire to become? what do i want from technology? stratified society do you love or hate reality? on the brian, body and mind i’m maximally happy, now what? care over fame active nihilism never stop subtracting how to live a happier and more epic life a risker life is a better life only work on things you can imagine doing for eternity how to maximize your happiness influence the gladiator makes his plans once he enters the ring meditations on meaning in life there is nothing more interesting than human beings is hope a vice? ego why be unique? happiness is metabolism health and strength you’re the hero is productivity a virtue or vice? why do we prize the rare? the joy of uncertainty how should i best use my time and life? a life without pain or suffering isn’t a life worth living free or unfree? what do you really care for in life? anti-satisfaction in life why think? the eternal return only do what is best for you! truthiness why be happy? permissionless living in praise of unconventional wisdom become the change which you wish to see in the world happiness beyond freedom idolize people, not stuff what makes you stronger? what makes you weaker? why hate? the secret of happiness you’re constantly in a state of becoming life is about choices, not obligations anti-nihilism first, do what is best for you. live dynamic how to prosper is the point of life to be satisfied? supreme effort of will. how to become more idealistic thrivival 101 create yourself non-small inspiration how to live a heroic life: dare the heights! human augmentation prune happiness: do what you want to do (and don’t do what you don’t want to do) avoid vain (empty) pursuits in life modern slavery kill the leeches wisdom augmentation why we need friction in life straight line philosophy what’s your end-game in life? create your own happiness today desire both pain and pleasure in life try the impossible self-respect anti-social extrovert never blame anybody but yourself human flourishing simpler, not better. how to be free embrace the extremes cultivate your own culture courage. thrivival inner power how to live a purposeful life my definition of happiness why change is good why work? how to live the happiest possible life the two-pronged approach to maximize joy in your life you always have another option! infinitism never stop! what is your self-directed purpose in life? live today like it were your last do you photograph to live, or live to photograph? artist-philosopher live life to the fullest! in praise of selfishness why you must be a yay-sayer to succeed in entrepreneurship and life why i love walking live life like a video game! simple luxuries in life treat your life like a fun experiment! only prove it to yourself you don’t always need to feel joyful to live a fulfilling and meaningful life life is too short to be bored! money cannot destroy boredom how to find inspiration in life why you must ignore haters to succeed and win in life an active life is a happy life my simple joys in life never stop striving how to motivate yourself in life how to be optimistic in life how to dictate your purpose in life in praise of a dynamic life purpose. how to enjoy life photography therapy how to conquer regret take your play very seriously. how to prosper memento vivere destroy in order to create trust your body more than your mind make photos to make meaning in your life seek knowledge, not information the purpose of human life how to overcome impedence why i love death how to be centered in the eternal now how to be happy why do you care what others think of you? why i’m happy why? why i’m so prolific how to reduce lag in life masters of philosophy » seneca marcus aurelius publilius syrus personal philosophy » you are the light of the world your soul is a diamond in the rough why live? stoicism » how to be a stoic street photographer how to use photography as self-therapy how to free your soul from disturbance zen philosophy » how to be a zen street photographer zen in the art of street photography how to find tranquility in your photography life lessons » how to conquer your fears in life conquer yourself how to focus learn more: start here > henri neck strap (mark iii) shoot fearless > haptic industries creative tools to empower you. haptic industries on amazon > eric kim newsletter free motivation: email address eric kim workshops conquer your fears and meet new peers: april 25-26: chicago conquer composition workshop september 19-20: boston discover your unique voice in photography workshop (new date) november 4-8: havana, cuba travel street photography workshop experience – register intent join ars: the anti-social social media for photographers what do people really think about your photos? arsbeta.com primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta