skip to content search for: home about us advertise on bhl uncategorized using zoom to teach zoom a zoom class on zoom in sakai… 40 minutes, very introductory…. published on: march 18, 2020march 18, 2020author: mike munger uncategorized the ethics of price gouging is it wrong to stock up on hand sanitizer, and try to sell it at a profit? would it be wrong for stores to increase the price of toilet paper and bottled water in response to the dramatically increased demand for those products? coronavirus has once again raised questions about the ethics of price gouging – a topic i’ve touched on before in the video above, and in more detail in this paper. but before diving in to the ethics, we ought to be clear on what that phrase actually means. in essence, “price gouging” is simply a pejorative way of referring to the use of market prices to allocate scarce resources. it is rationing according to supply and demand. defining price gouging in this way has the advantage of making the moral problem clear. price gouging occurs because resources are scarce – because there aren’t enough goods to meet people’s needs. banning price gouging doesn’t do anything to address the underlying scarcity – in fact it might even make it worse, by destroying the incentives to bring new supply to market. so if we don’t want to allocate according to market prices, on what criterion should we allocate? you might say that we should allocate on the basis of need. and that sounds plausible enough. if i had a limited stock of water to distribute among my four children, that’s probably how i would do it. but need can be hard to perceive. especially when you’re dealing with strangers. and especially when you’re dealing with people who realize that their chances of getting the water they want is dependent on their ability to make you believe that they need it. in the end, allocation by market prices has two advantages over just about any other system of distribution. it leads people to cut back on their demand – especially those people who need the good less, and are therefore willing to pay less for it. and it encourages people who have excess supply – people who stocked up, people from non-affected communities, and producers who might be able to make more – to bring that supply to where it is needed most. market prices work to meet people’s needs on both the demand and the supply side. prices might not be perfect. but they’re usually better than the alternative. published on: march 14, 2020march 14, 2020author: matt zwolinski uncategorized libertarianism and coronavirus what should libertarians think about responding to covid-19? many libertarians believe in a “non-aggression principle” (nap), which forbids initiating physical force against others. libertarians who reject the nap nevertheless still believe that individuals have a moral right not to be interfered with or harmed in most circumstances. punching someone in the face is a paradigm case of aggression. but there are other, more subtle ways in which people can physically harm each other. if i blow toxic smoke into your lungs, that probably ought to count as aggression too. and thus libertarianism seems like it ought to take a pretty strong stance against at least certain forms of environmental pollution, an issue that i have written about here. what about spreading a disease? if i’m sick, and i cough on you and get you sick, is that aggression? is that a violation of your libertarian rights? does it matter if i do it intentionally? what if i only act in ways that create a risk of you getting sick? does it matter how reasonable that risk is? if spreading disease at least sometimes counts as aggression, what are the proper responses to it? can mandatory quarantines be justified on libertarian grounds? can mandatory vaccines? libertarians have struggled with these issues too. here’s a small sample. here’s fellow bhl-er jason brennan on “a libertarian case for mandatory vaccines“ another bhler, jessica flanigan, has also made the case for compulsory vaccination. here’s a reason magazine symposium from back in 2014 on what to do about ebola, featuring george annas, ronald bailey, declan mccullagh, and jeffrey singer and just so you know that this issue isn’t a new one, here’s a 1906 book from the british libertarian j.h. levy on politics and disease, which sets out an early (and in my opinion not terribly strong) libertarian argument against compulsory vaccination i’m currently editing a new companion to libertarian thought for routledge. jessica flanigan is writing an entry for the book on libertarianism and public health. i’m sure she’ll have lots more to say there. update: it’s worth noting that the questions here are mainly a challenge for libertarians who operate within the deontological / natural law framework. for libertarians of a more consequentialist stripe, or even for non-absolutist deontologists, the issues are much less pointed. published on: march 13, 2020march 13, 2020author: matt zwolinski uncategorized the role of the libertarian in a non-libertarian society tyler cowen recently wrote an essay called state capacity libertarianism. cowen starts by noting that libertarianism is an ideology that loses adherents and has failed to effectively solve any major public policy problems. this can be disputed but that is not my goal. rather, i want to use cowen’s essay to motivate a bigger question about the culture of libertarianism: what should libertarians do in a decidedly non-libertarian society? cowen’s observation about the loss of adherents and the movement’s limited impact leads to his main argument: we need a libertarianism that defends markets but recognizes the value that states have in setting up pro-freedom social and economic orders. but cowen’s answer is not the only answer. there are other roles that libertarians can have. first, it helps to assess the relative popularity of libertarianism or classical liberalism. by most accounts, it is fairly unpopular in most societies. few societies, for example, have market liberal parties that hold power over long periods. at best, they institute some market reforms but then are replaced by more traditional left or right parties. in the united states, polling indicates that only about 1% to 5% of people hold consistently libertarian positions. most depressingly, only 3% of voters in 2016 chose the libertarian party candidate, even though both major party candidates were highly questionable. so what should libertarians do in the non-libertarian society? there are many answers. and i think all of them are reasonable. cowen’s state capacity libertarianism is an example of what might be called reformist or participatory liberalism. in other words, based on his understanding of what institutions bolster voluntary activities, like free trade, cowen argues that libertarians should support strong and effective, but limited, government. he doesn’t see libertarianism as being in tension with society. he sees libertarianism as a part of society that can bolster it’s most effective institutions a second strategy for libertarians is what i like to call “randian retreat.” in atlas shrugged, the world’s leading minds retreat to an enclave. no longer willing to tolerate a world that sees capitalism as immoral and achievement as corrupt, john galt creates a separate self sustaining community. on a more mellow note, bryan caplan has a famous blog post about “politely divorcing one’s society.” admit that you are weird and then build a community of like minded people. a third strategy is political and revolutionary. in this mode, one uses political tools to create broad social change. this attitude is best expressed in the 1970s era libertarian party. at that time, the lp was seen as a tool for the radical roll back of the american state. it’s platforms were drastic and stark. they weren’t revolutionary in the sense of leading enraged masses to the gates of the white house. but they are revolutionary because a program of strongly libertarian policy would entail the dismantling of many institutions that americans hold dear. a fourth strategy is less discussed but no less important: libertarians may seek radical change by enabling non libertarian actors. this may be called “catalytic” libertarianism because libertarian thinkers and activists might see them selves as improving the performance of other groups. catalytic libertarianism is motivated by a simple observation: many of the most freedom enhancing policies have occurred because they were promoted by very non- libertarian actors. the list is vast. apartheid and jim crow were ended by people whose economic view ranged from progressive to socialist. within the soviet bloc, anti-communist protests were driven more by a desire for material well being and relief from the stultifying communist party more than a thorough knowledge of hayek’s road to serfdom. thus, a libertarian might make cause with others who promote freedom, even if they base their beliefs in an illiberal framework. by doing so, the libertarian does not surrender their values. rather, they ensure that libertarian values are at least heard within a movement for change and that there are counter pressures to a movement’s more dangerous tendencies. and once in a while, freedom prevails. personally, i tend to work in this enabling “catalytic” mode. i plie my trade in a profession where most colleagues have political values at odds with my own. but i have been to contribute within the environment i have chosen to inhabit.. i also work with progressives and socialists on the open borders issue. one would expect that i’d say that my way is best way and other approaches, like cowen’s state capacity libertarianism, are off. but i don’t. i have studied political and social change for decades now and the lesson is that social change is complicated. cowen’s state capacity approach makes complete sense for making sure that libertarian ideas are heard in the halls of congress. if you know tyler cowen up close, you know that he’s been effective in forging ties with a wide range of people in “the mainstream,” whether it be on support of an institution like the mercatus center, using his blog (with alex tabarrok) to shape discussions within the economics profession or interviewing a sitting senator. i then look at bryan caplan, one of my dear friends, who has strongly pursued a randian approach to libertarianism. as he fondly says, he has “quietly divorced” his society and created a “bubble.” from this position, bryan has been able to cultivate a very strong libertarian identity which allows him to represent these ideas in time magazine and the new york times. one of the deepest lessons of classical liberal social theory is that any society is a vast, decentralized social order. it is not possible for any single person to completely understand any market or any political institution. rather, communities must evolve norms and social practices to effectively coordinate action and peacefully resolve conflict. and these rules of social life can allow people to learn what is best in a given situation in assessing our own position – the libertarian in a non libertarian society – we should understand that society is complex and many strategies might have value. though “state capacity” libertarianism may strike many readers as counter intuitive, it is not. rather, it is one way to engage with a society where state actors are entrusted with providing stability. in that world, we need more people like cowen to ensure these institutions preserve autonomy. at the same time, we will need other types of libertarianism for other projects and struggles. let a thousand flowers bloom. published on: march 9, 2020march 8, 2020author: fabio rojas uncategorized statism as accepting moral extortion i’m reading david estlund’s new book utophophobia right now for an symposium at the ppe society. estlund’s book got me thinking more about non-ideal theory and the moral status of the state in non-ideal circumstances. while ideal theory asks, “what institutions would we have if everyone were perfectly good and just?,” non-ideal theory asks, “what institutions should we have in the real world, where many people are evil, where people will take advantage of the rules, and where people’s willingness to comply is not a given?”. non-ideal theory is generally much harder work than ideal theory, because ideal theory imagines away most of the interesting problems and most of the complexity of actual social life. ideal theory is the arithmetic to non-ideal theory’s differential equations. many people believe that under ideal circumstances, we would not have any kind of state. (gregory kavka disagrees. i never found his argument persuasive, but see chris freiman for a careful refutation.) if everyone were just and good, then the kinds of problems the state could solve would not arise. we wouldn’t need to enforce rights because by hypothesis people would respect each other’s rights. we wouldn’t need the state to collect and redistribute income because people would voluntarily give what they should, using non-coercive coordination methods, and no one would take advantage of others’ generosity or sense of justice. just as a perfectly just society would have no need for criminal justice courts, it would have no need for a state, period. it would be anarchic. not rothbard-style anarchy, with private enforcement agencies, but mickey mouse clubhouse anarchy, with no enforcement mechanisms at all. but then this leads to a kind of puzzle. justice requires cooperative anarchy. in an ideal society, it would be wrong to subject me to the authority of the state, to have police officers and politicians lord over me, to tax my income, and so on, because these institutions would not be necessary to people to do what they ought to do. however, even in unjust circumstances like ours, where the world is filled with moral degenerates, a very large number of people are sufficiently good and just that anarchy would work with them. for instance, while i’m not a saint, if everyone were as conscientious and committed to fair play as i am, and we all knew that, we could easily dispense with governments and instantiate cooperative anarchy. why, then, should good people be subject to the state’s power? why shouldn’t the state only apply coercive force to wrongdoers and degenerates and leave the good people alone? consider the problem of moral extortion. make a list of all the things it is generally permissible for you to do. this might include marry an an adult who wants to marry you, read some book, draw a picture of a prophet, buy yourself a new guitar, listen to some music, move to a new town, write a philosophy paper, or whatnot. let x stand for all the things it is generally and prima facie morally permissible for you to do. now imagine someone comes along and makes a credible threat: “if you commit [some particular act in set x], i will respond by doing something awful.” ask: are you now obligated not to do that act, simply because someone else has threatened to do something wrong in response? i’ve asked people about this before, when writing when all else fails. most people initially say no. for instance, suppose a jealous ex-girlfriend threatens to kill people if you marry your new girlfriend. most say that while this is awful, you are not obligated to stay single. however, most people also change their minds when the stakes become high enough. if, say, thanos threatens to kill half the universe unless you stop listening to country music, they say you are obligated to give in to his threat. at some point, the heckler gets a moral veto. at some point, the extortionist succeeds in changing the moral landscape, rendering certain previously permissible acts impermissible. similarly, the heckler/extortionist can also render certain previously impermissible acts permissible, or at least excusable. if thanos threatens to kill half the universe unless you steal a car, then you are excused in stealing a car. stealing isn’t justified, per se, but it at least excusable. what if we change the story a bit? instead of having an identifiable person actively threatening such extortion, imagine instead you simply know that if you do some otherwise permissible act x or if you fail to perform some otherwise impermissible act y, then some significant number of people will react by doing evil things, but you cannot easily identify ahead of time who will do it and what exactly they will do. again, i suspect most people would say that when the stakes get high enough–when the injustice others will commit becomes sufficiently severe–this can change the moral valence of your actions. it can render x impermissible and at least excuse y. now back to the state. if everyone were as morally good as, say, chris freiman, we would live under cooperative anarchy. unfortunately, some people are significantly morally worse than chris is. they are willing to exploit others, prey upon others’ kindness, attack and harm them, and/or unwilling to contribute voluntarily to public goods or charitable endeavors. it’s one thing to justify state coercion against such rotten people. (presumably, we need a theory of when preemptive coercion is justifiable against them.) but it’s another to defend state coercion against good enough people, such as chris. what explains that? some people would predictably do the right thing and avoid doing unjust things, even in the absence of coercive reinforcement. further, justice requires cooperative anarchy and forbids the state; at most, the state is permitted as a response to injustice. here, it seems, the state (or any other kind of pre-emptive coercive enforcement agency) is excusable because of moral extortion. we know ahead of time that some people out there will act like hecklers, some big, some small. we cannot quite tell who will commit injustice and who will not, but we know ahead of time that a significant number of people will. so, enforcement agencies like the state are, perhaps, an excusable pre-emptive response to the threat such people face. this idea is familiar, of course. but it’s worth noting what the force of the argument is. it looks like the argument on behalf of the state, or any other kind of pre-emptive coercive enforcement agency, takes the same form as the argument for giving in to moral extortion. it would normally be wrong and inexcusable to subject a good person like chris to threats, to tax his income, or whatnot. however, there are lots of bad people out there who implicitly threaten to act unjustly. we cannot predict ahead of time who the unjust actors will be and what exactly they will do, but we know that a significant enough number of people will do quite bad things. so, the argument goes, it becomes excusable in the face of these “threats” to instantiate the state. now, i’m not convinced this kind of argument succeeds at all. however, it seems to me that arguments for the state take this kind of form. the state is not in the first place an instrument of justice, but at most an excusable institution instantiated in the fact of moral extortion. published on: february 19, 2020february 19, 2020author: jason brennan uncategorized advisor influence vs reliability in a previous post, i remarked that philosophers are probably strongly influence by their advisors, and then argued this should cause us to reduce our credence in our own work and our reliability. irfan khawaja finds the claim (that advisees significantly get pushed/influenced to believe what their advisors believe) implausible and wonders why i didn’t cite a study to prove it. admittedly, i thought the claim was so obviously true and widely accepted that i didn’t need to argue for it; instead, i was exploring an implication of what i thought was a commonly accepted fact. i don’t know of a study that actually tests this empirically. it seems there is lots of correlation between what advisors and advisees think, but it’s hard to know how much is selection and how much treatment, that is, influence. however, i’m not sure it matters. either way, it should make us worried about how reliable we are. consider the options: 1. selection effect: you form your view x while you still suck at philosophy. you then self-select an advisor who agrees, and/or choose to attend a program with people who agree. you then get trained by someone who shares your views to defend them better. great job rationalizing what you believed anyways, before you really knew what you were talking about. 2. treatment effect: you believe x because largely by a somewhat random processes you happen to be trained by a believer in x. you have social pressure to share their views, plus you tend to see good arguments for x and weaker arguments against it, just because of who happens to be in your program. either way, should reduce credence in x. further, one of my political theorist fb friends notes that advisors tend to write strong letters and work harder for disciples than for advisees with contrary points of view. so there is probably some pernicious selection involved in who ultimately gets a job and keeps publishing. again, this is not a process that should inspire much confidence. published on: february 13, 2020february 13, 2020author: jason brennan posts navigation older posts email updates join 13,167 other subscribers email address subscribe advertisement recent posts using zoom to teach zoom the ethics of price gouging libertarianism and coronavirus the role of the libertarian in a non-libertarian society statism as accepting moral extortion search for: categories categories select category a bleeding heart history of libertarian thought (12) academic philosophy (405) announcements (180) blog administration (39) book/article reviews (178) consequentialism (47) criminal justice reform (4) current events (543) democracy (164) economics (195) exploitation (68) left-libertarianism (160) liberalism (148) libertarianism (586) liberty (179) links (80) religion (45) rights theory (144) rothbard’s ethics of liberty (6) social justice (324) symposium on free market fairness (16) symposium on huemer’s problem of political authority (11) symposium on left-libertarianism (11) symposium on libertarianism and land (12) symposium on rationalism pluralism and freedom (14) toleration (68) uncategorized (346) posts by main authors andrew j. cohen bas van der vossen christopher freiman daniel shapiro fernando teson gary chartier jacob levy james taylor jason brennan jessica flanigan kevin vallier lauren hall matt zwolinski mike munger roderick long sarah skwire steve horwitz posts by guest authors brink lindsey charles johnson christopher morris david gordon david schmidtz deirdre mccloskey elizabeth anderson eric mack fred foldvary hillel steiner john holbo john tomasi kevin carson massimo renzo michael huemer michael strong peter boettke richard arneson samuel freeman will wilkinson zachary gochenour