... welcome to the official web page for blind cat rescue & sanctuary, inc we are a lifetime cat care sanctuary located in st. pauls, north carolina (usa). in 2005, we built our first building as a safe place for blind cats who were deemed not adoptable by regular shelters and were going to be euthanized because they were blind. in 2011, we built a second shelter to provide a safe place for leukemia positive (felv+) and feline immunodeficiency virus (fiv+) cats who otherwise would be killed because they tested positive for these viruses. we are a registered non-profit 501©3 in the state of north carolina. our tax identification number is 20-3410498. your donations are tax-deductible, encrypted, and safe. now we humbly ask for your help. will you consider becoming the cat’s champion ... by making a gift today? every little bit helps! if your cat has become blind or you are thinking of adopting a blind cat, please read our about us page, which gives information about living with blind cats. meet charity meet ella our address is 99 prairie lane, 28384 google maps iframe embed we are open monday - saturday for visitors from noon - 4 pm blind cat rescue is a registered trademark. you may not use our name in any capacity with out our expressed written permission. copyright 2020 blind cat rescue. all rights reserved, privacy policy & terms of use. become a monthly sustainer - make a monthly donation. click here frankie - felv+ volunteer. donate. review. volunteer. donate. review. subscribe to our mailing list charity came to us from a local rescuer after being rescued off of the porch of a man who “hates cats.” the rescuer called us requesting help because of the horrible condition she was in. they felt they were in way over their heads. you may see her before picture here (warning, very graphic) charity immediately received the medical care she needed. because of wonderful generous people like you she is alive and healthy being loved and cared for at blind cat rescue. when you donate, you help a cat like charity that was desperate for help. ella came to us a few hours before she was to be euthanized at our local animal control facility. she was abused, blind, starved and had broken bones in her back. she was also understandably afraid of people. there is no telling what kind of horror she had survived! she immediately received the medical care she needed. because of wonderful generous people like you she is alive and healthy being loved and cared for at blind cat rescue. when you donate, you help a cat like ella that was desperate for help. volunteer. donate. review. donate now become a monthly donor sponsor a cat set up a fundraiser donate your birthday to the cats cfc - combined federal campaign wishlist employer matching grants sell on ebay shop on amazon donate sponsor a cat free ways to help become a monthly sustainer sell/buy on ebay shop through amazon follow us on facebook follow us on instagram follow us on twitter follow us on pinterest photos and newsletter blog page 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 page 5 page 6 page 7 page 8 page 9 page 10 page 11 page 12 welcome to the official home page for blind cat rescue & sanctuary, inc meet ella become a monthly sustainer - make a monthly donation click here if your cat has become blind or you are thinking of adopting a blind cat, please read our about us page, which gives information about living with blind cats. our address is 74 prairie lane, 28384 copyright 2019 blind cat rescue. all rights reserved, privacy policy & terms of use. blind cat rescue is a registered trademark. you may not use our name in any capacity with out our expressed written permission. donate with paypal or your credit card open house schedule we are open monday - saturday noon - 4 for visitors. you do not have to wait for open house. gina snicker subscribe to our mailing list volunteer. donate. review. we are a lifetime cat care sanctuary located in st. pauls, north carolina (usa). in 2005, we built our first building as a safe place for blind cats who were deemed not adoptable by regular shelters and who were going to be euthanized just because they were blind. in 2011, we built a second shelter to provide a safe place for leukemia positive (felv+) and feline immunodeficiency virus (fiv+) cats who otherwise would have been killed just because they tested positive for those viruses. we are a registered non-profit 501©3 in the state of north carolina. our tax identification number is 20-3410498. your donations are tax-deductible, encrypted, and safe. now we humbly ask for your help. will you be the cat’s champion by making a gift today? every little bit helps! ella came to us a few hours before she was to be euthanized at our local animal control facility. she was abused, blind, starved and had broken bones in her back. she was also understandably afraid of people. there is no telling what kind of horror she had survived! she immediately received the medical care she needed. because of wonderful generous people like you she is alive and healthy being loved and cared for at blind cat rescue. when you donate, you help a cat like ella that was desperate for help. matching gift and volunteer grant information provided by home about contact donate help us thecats newsletter & blog watchus wishlist volunteer memorials