skip to content marketop data marketing agency home about solutions blog contact home about solutions blog contact jan312020 how to generate the best leads in the legal industry to increase sales marketingleave a comment having trouble with consistent and reliable client acquisition as an attorney? you’re not alone. over the past few years leads for lawyers have become more and more difficult to generate due to shifts in consumer behavior, over saturation in the market, and of course the inevitable spike in cost across traditional marketing tactics. … read article jan282020 the future of ai and machine learning in marketing marketing “how artificial intelligence is shaping the digital marketing landscape as it stands today” ai and machine learning have become buzz words in the booming tech world we live in today. ai is improving our ability to make buying decisions, conduct better product research, and influence others in their buyer’s journeys. there are two main… read article jun12018 blog content and keyword rankings go hand-in-hand marketing you probably already know that the amount of traffic that your company website gets from search engines is based on how well it ranks for various keywords. but if you’re new to online marketing and seo, then you likely still have some questions about what keywords are and how to target your content around these… read article may292018 5 ways to make social media ads stand out marketing billions of people use social media every day, making it the perfect place to market your business. unfortunately, most other business owners know that and have joined the fray by using social media ppc platforms. as a result, getting your brand noticed by the right people at the right time requires some intentional effort. the… read article apr162018 convert website visitors into leads livechat converting website visitors into leads steps to successfully turning visitors into customers it can be frustrating to see visitors to your website and a lack of sales or signups. what are you doing wrong? although people may be visiting your website, it takes onsite tools and a few tricks to get them to actually sign… read article apr162018 online marketing trends 2018 marketing if there are any absolute truths in digital marketing, it’s that things read article apr162018 why and how using live chat agents will convert your web traffic into sales livechat have you ever browsed a website only to find yourself with unanswered questions about products or services? if you’ve spent much time online, the answer is almost assuredly yes. read article apr162018 how well is your website performing ? websites many small businesses think that building a website and maintaining a social media presence is the end-all of their online marketing efforts. read article apr162018 5 companies impacting marketing analytics analytics in the 21st century, marketing analytics, business intelligence, and data have become essential business processes for companies that wish to give their online presence a competitive edge. read article apr162018 5 keys to delivering quality marketing content marketing many b2b businesses are now using content to drive traffic, generates leads and close sales. read article load more find us on:facebooktwitterlinkedin © 2020 marketop ❤️ nyc privacy policies terms of use useful links go to top