skip to content institute of economic affairs institute of economic affairs menu friday march 27, 2020 twitter facebook rss institute of economic affairs home about staff jobs epicenter contact us twitter facebook rss blog film research publications economic affairs ea magazine brexit unit int. trade & competition unit smpc paragon initiative media media coverage press releases media enquiries about iea comms students internships events and conferences essay competition student resources iea budget challenge events forthcoming events past events donate donate now donate monthly donate to iea projects other ways to donate legacy gift donate from usa contact us search for: search iea info home about staff jobs epicenter contact us covid-19 will have long-term impacts on mental health. are we prepared for that? emma revell 27 march 2020 the covid-19 pandemic is delivering a deep, severe shock to the global economy. millions of people face an uncertain future, with no idea when (or, indeed, if) they will be able to return to work or see family members again. the effects will be felt in every home across britain. current measures are rightly focused on the physical health of the nation. lockdowns, school closures, handwashing advice, … continue reading “covid-19 will have long-term impacts on mental health. are we prepared for that?” share leave a comment on covid-19 will have long-term impacts on mental health. are we prepared for that? share and comment on the story iea featured blog personalize your search closex sort by: filter by: policy area author date published section loading... “corona ’95”: what if the coronavirus had hit us 25 years earlier? kristian niemietz 24 march 2020 society and culture “corona ’95”: what if the coronavirus had hit us 25 years earlier? i promise that this isn’t one of those schmaltzy “look on the bright side”/”there is a silver lining to all this” articles. coronavirus has no bright side, and there is no silver lining. but over the past couple of days, i have become a bit more grateful for the technologies and technology-based services that are ... continue reading kristian niemietz 24 march 2020 share 1 comment on “corona ’95”: what if the coronavirus had hit us 25 years earlier? the economics of panic buying julian jessop 23 march 2020 the economics of panic buying no-one can have failed to notice the half-empty supermarket shelves and long queues for essentials. loo rolls even rivalled flowers as the mother’s day gift of choice. fortunately, this is one phase of the coronavirus crisis which should be over soon. there has been a marked difference between what people say is socially acceptable and ... continue reading julian jessop 23 march 2020 share 3 comments on the economics of panic buying some classical liberal thoughts on the coronavirus pandemic syed kamall 20 march 2020 economic theory some classical liberal thoughts on the coronavirus pandemic apart from concerns for our neighbours, friends, families and mankind, it goes without saying that the current pandemic and the responses of individuals, families, communities and governments pose challenges for thinkers of different political and economic traditions, especially classical liberals. among classical liberals there is a natural scepticism of government intervention, but to different degrees. ... continue reading syed kamall 20 march 2020 share 3 comments on some classical liberal thoughts on the coronavirus pandemic five decades on from populorum progressio, have we achieved one world? philip booth 19 march 2020 trade, development, and immigration five decades on from populorum progressio, have we achieved one world? at this time of the rapid spread of coronavirus we can, of course, easily see one the downsides of globalisation. however, globalisation has been coming under pressure for some time with some even questioning its economic benefits. for example, this is, president trump: “you go to new england, ohio, pennsylvania …manufacturing is down 30, 40, sometimes 50 per cent. nafta ... continue reading philip booth 19 march 2020 share leave a comment on five decades on from populorum progressio, have we achieved one world? californian think tank publishes “best books on the folly of socialism” kristian niemietz 18 march 2020 society and culture californian think tank publishes “best books on the folly of socialism” the humboldt university, located in east berlin, was once the largest university of the german democratic republic, and one of the meccas of “scientific socialism”. and that was only fair. it was, after all, the alma mater of karl marx and friedrich engels themselves. and yet, by the time i attended my first lectures there ... continue reading kristian niemietz 18 march 2020 share 1 comment on californian think tank publishes “best books on the folly of socialism” coronomics: the case against “corona keynesianism” ryan bourne 17 march 2020 economic theory coronomics: the case against “corona keynesianism” even if not a technical recession (two quarters of negative growth), a severe coronavirus-induced downturn looks certain across major economies. markets signal it. top economists predict it (a recent igm poll showed 62% to 8% “agreeing” it would happen.) and many “feel it” already – from disruptions to supply chains and work arrangements, to collapsing ... continue reading ryan bourne 17 march 2020 share 1 comment on coronomics: the case against “corona keynesianism” the economics of coronavirus-induced isolation: some initial thoughts len shackleton 16 march 2020 society and culture the economics of coronavirus-induced isolation: some initial thoughts the proposal to isolate those aged 70+ for four months looks like a desperate measure. as someone falling into this ‘vulnerable’ category i can’t say i’m happy about it, though i’ll wait to see exactly what it entails. i think we just have to trust the government at the moment, though long experience of studying ... continue reading len shackleton 16 march 2020 share 3 comments on the economics of coronavirus-induced isolation: some initial thoughts employment growth among the low-paid is already slow. minimum wage hikes will make things worse len shackleton 13 march 2020 labour market employment growth among the low-paid is already slow. minimum wage hikes will make things worse perhaps we – and i include myself – have cried wolf too often in relation to increases in minimum wages. since george osborne’s invention of the national living wage in 2015, the earnings of the lowest-paid have risen sharply, and yet the most recent figures showed a continued rise in overall employment and no sign ... continue reading len shackleton 13 march 2020 share 1 comment on employment growth among the low-paid is already slow. minimum wage hikes will make things worse abolish entrepreneurs’ relief – but not in isolation richard teather 10 march 2020 tax and fiscal policy abolish entrepreneurs’ relief – but not in isolation the government is floating the possibility of abolishing entrepreneurs’ relief in this week’s budget. in my view that’s putting the cart before the horse – a process that usually ends up with a nasty crash. entrepreneurs’ relief reduces capital gains tax, when you sell your business, from 20% to 10%, on gains of up to ... continue reading richard teather 10 march 2020 share leave a comment on abolish entrepreneurs’ relief – but not in isolation hs2 won’t help the government meet its climate change goals luke warren 6 march 2020 transport hs2 won’t help the government meet its climate change goals high speed 2 is being sold to the public as a crucial part of the uk’s low-carbon transport future. it has been promoted as a project that would provide a greener alternative to travellers by linking northern england with london, helping to reduce the uk’s emissions. there is certainly a case for environmentally sustainable transportation. ... continue reading luke warren 6 march 2020 share 3 comments on hs2 won’t help the government meet its climate change goals posts navigation institute of economic affairs be part of the iea today donate like follow watch newsletter sign up get informed. stay informed. add email to start...: go privacy policy © institute of economic affairs registered in england 755502, charity no. cc/235 351, limited by guarantee × by continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information accept the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close