skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us blog design blogging basics blog design grow your blog make money blogging tools free blog images: 9 best sites to grab beautiful stock images lauren mcmanus dec 13, 2019 you know the old saying, “you can’t judge a book by its cover”? it’s crap. we all judge books … [read more...] about free blog images: 9 best sites to grab beautiful stock images blog design how to write a blog post your readers will love: 5 steps + 5 tips lauren mcmanus jan 8, 2020 truth: most bloggers will never make money from their blogs. how's that for an in-your-face, … [read more...] about how to write a blog post your readers will love: 5 steps + 5 tips blog design how to protect your blog with legal pages alex and lauren dec 13, 2019 blogging isn't all just fun and games. you have to remember that your blog is a business and you … [read more...] about how to protect your blog with legal pages blog design transfer a free blog to wordpress.org (self-hosted) in 5 steps lauren mcmanus jan 8, 2020 you've heard about the benefits of self-hosting and are ready to transfer a free blog to … [read more...] about transfer a free blog to wordpress.org (self-hosted) in 5 steps blog design wordpress.com and wordpress.org for blogs (free vs. self-hosted) lauren mcmanus jan 15, 2020 getting started with a brand new blog can seem like an overwhelming process at first. you … [read more...] about wordpress.com and wordpress.org for blogs (free vs. self-hosted) blog design 17 best wordpress plugins for blogs – 2020 edition lauren mcmanus mar 16, 2020 there are literally thousands of wordpress plugins on the market and they can be a huge help when it … [read more...] about 17 best wordpress plugins for blogs – 2020 edition blog design how to write a blog post in wordpress and publish it alex nerney jan 15, 2020 wordpress comes with a bit of a learning curve, but once you get the hang of it, it's super easy to … [read more...] about how to write a blog post in wordpress and publish it blog design 4 best wordpress blog themes for beginners (both free and paid) lauren mcmanus jan 15, 2020 so... you've purchased your domain name, got your hosting, downloaded wordpress and you’re ready to … [read more...] about 4 best wordpress blog themes for beginners (both free and paid) blog design 9 amazing blog ideas and topics (perfect for 2020) alex nerney feb 16, 2020 it used to be that you could just vomit out your thoughts to paper (or keyboard) and people cared … [read more...] about 9 amazing blog ideas and topics (perfect for 2020) blog design lass="fa fa-close"> how to start a blog footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions