skip to content resources podcast portfolio blog about contact menu resources podcast portfolio blog about contact blog 4 common photography obstacles what’s keeping you from taking the photos you want to take? we gave it some thought and came up with a list of four common photography obstacles for this episode of i like your picture. pin3 share5 share tweet 8 shares read more » march 25, 2020 no comments create an unexpected composition what does it mean to create an unexpected composition? i guess that depends upon your own definition of the ultimate goal of photography. are we here merely to document a person, place or thing? that’s pin3 share19 share tweet 22 shares read more » march 18, 2020 no comments lightroom classic workflow to develop your photos i wanted to share this lightroom classic workflow to help you develop your photos in a way that provides the best results and saves you time. a lot of people tend to use the develop pin11 share25 share tweet 36 shares read more » march 11, 2020 no comments how to use rhythm and proportion in photography using proportion in photography is an important concept to grasp. sometimes people use distorted proportion for humorous or comic effect. however, you don’t want to accidentally use it when you’re trying to show a person pin6 share8 share tweet 14 shares read more » march 4, 2020 no comments how to use texture in your photography we can use texture in our photos to engage the people viewing them. think about it for a moment. when you see something with texture, you imagine how it feels. even if only for a pin4 share16 share tweet 20 shares read more » february 26, 2020 no comments why it’s so important to have contrast in photography when you think of contrast in photography, you most likely think of tonal contrast – the difference between dark tones and light tones. perhaps that’s because it’s one of the easiest types of contrast to pin5 share23 share tweet 28 shares read more » february 19, 2020 no comments « previous page1 page2 page3 … page20 next » copyright © 2020 william beem free resources lightroom portrait brushes visual stories ebook lightroom classic performance hacks ebook creative portraits ebook navigation resources podcast portfolio blog about policies terms of use privacy policy disclaimer photo licensing contact menu terms of use privacy policy disclaimer photo licensing contact