suggest a site | forums | store | rss | about us | search featured posts pandemic sourdough: the first loaf with my new starter spoken word with electronics: "paul krassner recalls the day jfk died" and "earth, take four" 88 names: matt ruff's mmorpg heist novel is "snow crash meets the king and i" after eight years on boing boing...the john wilcock comic concludes! drugs without the hot air: the best book i've ever read on drugs and drug policy, in an expanded new edition politico asked 34 big thinkers to predict how the coronapocalypse will permanently change our world politico asked 34 "macro thinkers" to share some of their thoughts on what the world will look like after we crawl from the wreckage of this thing. some are hopeful, optimistic. some, not so much. definitely good food for thought. here are a few excerpts. mark lawrence schrad is an associate professor of political science and author of the forthcoming smashing the liquor machine: a global history of prohibition. a new kind of patriotism when all is said and done, perhaps we will recognize their sacrifice as true patriotism, saluting our doctors and nurses, genuflecting and saying, “thank you for your service,” as we now do for military veterans. we will give them guaranteed health benefits and corporate discounts, and build statues and have holidays for this new class of people who sacrifice their health and their lives for ours. perhaps, too, we will finally start to understand patriotism more as cultivating the health and life of your community, rather than blowing up someone else’s community. maybe the de-militarization of american patriotism and love of community will be one of the benefits to come out of this whole awful mess. eric klinenberg is professor of sociology and director of the institute for public knowledge at new york university. he is the author, most recently, of palaces for the people: how social infrastructure can help fight inequality, polarization, and the decline of civic life. less individualism the coronavirus pandemic marks the end of our romance with market society and hyper-individualism. we could turn toward authoritarianism. imagine president donald trump trying to suspend the november election. consider the prospect of a military crackdown. the dystopian scenario is real. but i believe we will go in the other direction. we’re now seeing the market-based models for social organization fail, catastrophically, as self-seeking behavior (from trump down) makes this crisis so much more dangerous than it needed to be. sherry turkle is professor of the social studies of science and technology at mit, founding director of the mit initiative on technology and self, and author, most recently, of reclaiming conversation: the power of talk in a digital age. a healthier digital lifestyle perhaps we can use our time with our devices to rethink the kinds of community we can create through them. in the earliest days of our coronavirus social distancing, we have seen inspirational first examples. cello master yo-yo ma posts a daily live concert of a song that sustains him. broadway diva laura benanti invites performers from high school musicals who are not going to put on those shows to send their performances to her. she’ll be watching; lin-manuel miranda joins the campaign and promises to watch as well. entrepreneurs offer time to listen to pitches. master yoga instructors teach free classes. this is a different life on the screen from disappearing into a video game or polishing one’s avatar. this is breaking open a medium with human generosity and empathy. this is looking within and asking: “what can i authentically offer? i have a life, a history. what do people need?” if, moving forward, we apply our most human instincts to our devices, that will have been a powerful covid-19 legacy. not only alone together, but together alone. michiko kakutani is author of the 2018 bestseller the death of truth and former chief book critic of the new york times. revived trust in institutions the coronavirus pandemic, one hopes, will jolt americans into a realization that the institutions and values donald trump has spent his presidency assailing are essential to the functioning of a democracy—and to its ability to grapple effectively with a national crisis. a recognition that government institutions—including those entrusted with protecting our health, preserving our liberties and overseeing our national security—need to be staffed with experts (not political loyalists), that decisions need to be made through a reasoned policy process and predicated on evidence-based science and historical and geopolitical knowledge (not on trump-ian “alternative facts,” political expediency or what thomas pynchon called, in gravity’s rainbow, “a chaos of peeves, whims, hallucinations and all-round assholery”). instead of trump’s “america first” foreign policy, we need to return to multilateral diplomacy, and to the understanding that co-operation with allies—and adversaries, too—is especially necessary when it comes to dealing with global problems like climate change and viral pandemics. joe brotherton is chairman of democracy live, a startup that provides electronic ballots. electronic voting goes mainstream. one victim of covid-19 will be the old model of limiting voting to polling places where people must gather in close proximity for an extended period of time. we have been gradually moving away from this model since 2010, when congress passed a law requiring electronic balloting for military and overseas voters, and some states now require accessible at-home voting for blind and disabled voters. over the long term, as election officials grapple with how to allow for safe voting in the midst of a pandemic, the adoption of more advanced technology—including secure, transparent, cost-effective voting from our mobile devices—is more likely. in the near-term, a hybrid model—mobile-phone voting with paper ballots for tabulation—is emerging in the 2020 election cycle in certain jurisdictions. we should expect that option to become more widespread. to be clear, proven technologies now exist that offer mobile, at-home voting while still generating paper ballots. this system is not an idea; it is a reality that has been used in more than 1,000 elections for nearly a decade by our overseas military and disabled voters. this should be the new normal. read the rest here. [h/t laurie fox] image: faris mohammed on unsplash gareth branwyn at 3:05 pm | share | tweet | 5 comments shut in sounds: devotchka—done with those days this little ditty from devotchka's 2018 album this night falls forever, is both beautiful and timely. the masks. the coming storm. the promise to be there for one another. love it. image: youtube seamus bellamy at 3:05 pm | share | tweet | comments keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it's stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to invest in yourself by learning a new in-demand skill set or improving upon the one you're already familiar with. it's easy to do that at your own pace, from the comfort of home, with integrity training: online workforce courses. offering proven on-demand training for corporate, government, and education employees, integrity membership gives you lifetime access to all 600+ current courses with completion certificates covering a wide variety of topics, including it certification, project management, business, and soft skills, sales and marketing, design, big data, programming languages, blockchain development, and more. across all subject matter, you'll learn from field experts with 15+ years of experience and multiple certifications from microsoft, comptia, pmi, itil, cisco, vmware, mile 2, and more. you can access online courses 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, from pretty much any device, plus you'll receive certified content, unlimited graded practice exams, and completion certificates. with good reviews—like this one from hr director molly tompkins: "the sheer number of courses available at this price is incredible. the courses are high quality and well worth the money."— and an affordable price, you can be sure you're getting a great value. by keeping your mind sharp and continuing to advance your skillset, you'll become more marketable than you were before and that could give you a big boost when it comes to job hunting or applying for a promotion. secure your lifetime access to integrity training: online workforce courses for only $59 and save 95% on a worthwhile investment. boing boing's shop at 1:00 pm | share | tweet | comments coronavirus: disneyland resort and walt disney world resort 'closed until further notice' on friday, disney announced that disneyland resort and walt disney world resort will remain closed until further notice. (more…) xeni jardin at 12:41 pm | share | tweet | 11 comments watch white house coronavirus official dr. birx suck up to dear leader obsequiously "[trump is] so attentive to the scientific literature & the details & the data. i think his ability to analyze & integrate data that comes out of his long history in business has really been a real benefit.” (more…) xeni jardin at 12:30 pm | share | tweet | 29 comments americans are coronavirus panic-buying spiral hams and oatmilk this right here is some seriously weird data from nielsen today, about the sorts of things americans have been purchasing as the coronavirus outbreak, and corresponding fear, spread. (more…) xeni jardin at 12:23 pm | share | tweet | 25 comments demanding coronavirus protections, instacart workers plan to strike monday, march 30 the "instacart shoppers and gig workers collective," representing some 175,000 laborers for instacart, plan to strike on monday, march 30. (more…) xeni jardin at 12:09 pm | share | tweet | 2 comments apple and the cdc's covid19 self-diagnosis app apple and the cdc have released this app to help you self-diagnose in the event you are wondering if you have covid19. i think most of the world imagines every tickle in their throat as the beginning of the end. covid19 screening tool for ios jason weisberger at 11:54 am | share | tweet | 5 comments free book for kids- the emu club adventures: alien invasion in my backyard to do far less than my part in helping families in quarantine/home isolation, i'm offering a free download of the first book in my book series for kids, the emu club adventures: alien invasion in my backyard, for anyone who wants it. free. no charge. info for downloading the pdf of the book is at this link. the book was first released in 2015, and here are a few endorsements: "ruben bolling is one of my cartooning heroes, and the emu club adventures is seriously, mysteriously funny!" - jeff kinney, diary of a wimpy kid "there's no mystery—the emu club is a hit! this is a fun, funny adventure that kids will love to read." —lincoln peirce, big nate "the emu club inhabits exactly the world i always hoped to live in when i was 12, when the answer to questions like 'where did i put my toy' led inevitably to alien conspiracies and secret underground tunnels. a book for the curious and adventurous!" - cory doctorow i hope your kids have some fun with it. maybe you will too. in a week, i'm going to provide a link to download the second book in the series, ghostly thief of time. also for free. ruben bolling at 11:27 am | share | tweet | 1 comments the new lego star wars mandalorian battle pack! the lego mandalorian battle pack comes with 4 mandalorian shock trooper minifigs! the speeder bike is cool, but 4 mando minifigs for this price is a steal. lego star wars mandalorian battle pack 75267 mandalorian shock troopers and speeder bike building kit; great gift idea for any fan of star wars: the mandalorian tv series, new 2020 (102 pieces) via amazon jason weisberger at 11:22 am | share | tweet | 2 comments british drivers swearing this might be the same compilation of british drivers swearing that mark posted in 2016, but that video was copyright-striked by "bad drivers of northamptonshire" so it's impossible to know for sure. in any case, it seems unlikely that there is only one compilation of british drivers swearing in existence. so enjoy it, you shitting peugeot. rob beschizza at 11:20 am | share | tweet | 15 comments gorilla rack shelving units are awesome 10 years ago we decluttered our garage and carla bought several gorilla rack shelving units from amazon. they are awesome. i've assembled shelving units before, and they required either nuts and bolts or little brackets, but the gorilla rack units have parts that fit together without extra hardware. i built the first shelving unit in about 30 minutes. the second one took me 15 minutes, and the third one was done in 10 minutes. the pieces fit together without any fussing and the unit is free of sharp edges. it's very sturdy, too. mark frauenfelder at 11:18 am | share | tweet | 4 comments here's an updated list of initiatives to 3d-print masks and face shields for coronavirus health care workers forbes senior contributor, tj mccue, has been keeping an updated list of various corporate and maker/makerspace initiatives to 3d print filter masks and face shields for healthcare workers. (more…) gareth branwyn at 11:08 am | share | tweet | 5 comments fascinating video about tardigrades(water bears) enjoy the microscopy in this video ab0ut adorable tardigrades (aka water bears or moss piglets). one cool fact about these hardy 500 micron critters: each of their eyes is a single photoreceptive cell. image: youtube mark frauenfelder at 10:53 am | share | tweet | 1 comments president bolsonaro boasts that brazilians can bathe in excrement and not get sick brazil’s president jair bolsonaro boasted that his citizens are immune to the coronavirus because they have the magical ability to wallow in human waste “and nothing happens,” reports the guardian. “they never catch anything. you see some bloke jumping into the sewage, he gets out, has a dive, right? and nothing happens to him,” he told reporters. unfortunately, bolsonaro's magical thinking appears to be immune to the wily virus: on thursday brazil’s health ministry said that its coronavirus death toll had risen to 77, up from 46 on tuesday. so far 2,915 cases have been confirmed. a report in the folha de são paulo, a leading brazilian broadsheet, suggested there had been a “vertiginous” rise in the number of people being admitted to hospital with severe respiratory failure since late february when the covid-19 case was detected. image: by marcelo camargo/agência brasil - http://agenciabrasil.ebc.com.br/politica/foto/2014-02/congresso-promulga-emenda-constitucional-77?id=78867, cc by 3.0 br, link mark frauenfelder at 10:42 am | share | tweet | 23 comments coronavirus bill clears congress, $2 trillion cares act (h.r. 748) heads to trump for signature the house of representatives just passed the cares act, a $2 trillion coronavirus/covid-19 stimulus and relief bill, by voice vote. it’s now headed to the white house for impeached president donald trump's signature. (more…) xeni jardin at 10:30 am | share | tweet | 11 comments watch johnny carson joke about the toilet paper shortage no, that isn't a deepfake. in 1973, the stock market crashed and an arab oil embargo resulted in a gas crisis. with that as the context, a (false) rumor of a toilet paper shortage emerged and spread like wildfire via news outlets before it was further fueled by johnny carson (who later apologized). it's a fascinating story of shortage psychology and panic buying. from priceonomics: in november of 1973, several news agencies reported a tissue shortage in japan. initially, the release went unnoticed and nobody seemed to put much stock in it -- save for one harold v. froelich. froelich, a 41-year-old republican congressman, presided over a heavily-forested district in wisconsin and had recently been receiving complaints from constituents about a reduced stream of pulp paper. on november 16th, he released his own press statement -- “the government printing office is facing a serious shortage of paper” -- to little fanfare. however, a few weeks later, froelich uncovered a document that indicated the government’s national buying center had fallen far short of securing bids to provide toilet paper for its troops and bureaucrats. on december 11, he issued another, more serious press release: “the u.s. may face a serious shortage of toilet paper within a few months...we hope we don’t have to ration toilet tissue...a toilet paper shortage is no laughing matter. it is a problem that will potentially touch every american.” in the climate of shortages, oil scares, and economic duress, froelich’s claim was absorbed without an iota of doubt, and the media ran wild with it. wire services, radio hosts, and international correspondents all sensationalized the story; words like “may” and “potentially” were lost in translation, and the shortage was reported as a doomed truth. television stations aired footage from the scott paper company -- one of the ten largest producers in the u.s. -- of toilet paper rolls shooting off the production line. the ground had been set for a consumer panic; all it needed was a spark to ignite it. when johnny carson cracked a joke about toilet paper on his television talk show, things got serious. (via r/obscuremedia) david pescovitz at 10:21 am | share | tweet | 1 comments bill gates on cnn: returning to normal life in april is not realistic maybe it's just me, but when bill gates talks about how to deal with the coronavirus pandemic, i trust him more than donald trump, rush limbaugh, or ann coulter. here @anncoulter i fixed it for you: pic.twitter.com/4ztr5ljkcg — teapot dome was amateur hour! (@harrengwarding) march 24, 2020 mark frauenfelder at 9:59 am | share | tweet | 8 comments stray cat leads convenience store customer to pet food shelves stray cats follows you into the store and guides you to his fav cat food from r/funny lacking money and hands, this cat was waiting for someone with both to come along and offer assistance. i hope this little gal or feller gets adopted soon. mark frauenfelder at 9:45 am | share | tweet | 13 comments rip: 'desperately seeking susan' actor mark blum dies of coronavirus actor mark blum, famous for his roles in crocodile dundee and my favorite — the memorable uptight nerd-yuppie husband in desperately seeking susan, which starred madonna and roseanne arquette, has died of covid-19. from cnn: mark blum, a veteran stage actor known for films including "desperately seeking susan" and "crocodile dundee," has died due to complications from covid-19, according to a statement released by the screen actors guild. blum was 69. though he was perhaps best known for the 1985 film "desperately seeking susan," in which he starred alongside madonna and rosanna arquette, he most recently appeared in supporting tv roles on the hbo series "succession," the netflix drama "you" and amazon's "mozart in the jungle." he was a staple in the new york theater community, frequently appearing on broadway, including the revival of "twelve angry men," though he appeared off broadway much more often. blum was a regular player with playwrights horizons, an off-broadway theater in new york. the company remembered him on twitter. with love and heavy hearts, playwrights horizons pays tribute to mark blum, a dear longtime friend and a consummate artist who passed this week. thank you, mark, for all you brought to our theater, and to theaters and audiences across the world. we will miss you. pic.twitter.com/nmvzfb5hpb — playwrights horizons (@phnyc) march 26, 2020 carla sinclair at 9:26 am | share | tweet | 2 comments next 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9