privacy policy contact me sitemap about us menu home social media telegram web whatsapp web ig insight windows scnotification no logon servers blogging blogger to wordpress speed up wordpress pc security computer freeze after inserting dvd in drive – resolved winardi troubleshooting no comments server freeze after inserting dvd in the drive in the weekend ???? this is the weirdest thing i ever met, and this is ruining my weekend schedule. on friday … [continue reading...] laptop shutdown suddenly – resolved winardi troubleshooting no comments yes, this happens to me when i work on the spreadsheet, my laptop shutdown suddenly with no clear reason, no warning, no error, just blank screen without any lamp on, … [continue reading...] how to install windows server 2008 standard edition on dell poweredge r530 server winardi windows no comments installing windows server 2008 standard edition on dell poweredge r530 server is not easy because there is no option for that operating system, the options on the screen are: … [continue reading...] beware of covid-19 (corona) malware online thomass miller tutorials no comments cybercriminals are using the current pandemic situation of coronavirus for their own advantages, this is bad behavior. they offer information and fake news designed to steal your personal information … [continue reading...] what is ram and its function in a computer thomass miller hardware no comments what we need to know about ram, why it is needed by the computer, even the computer will not work without it. various types of ram available in the … [continue reading...] how to fix corrupted sd card winardi troubleshooting no comments there are many reasons that your micro sd card can become corrupted. it can be caused from the operating system crash, virus attack, accidentally deleted files, accidentally formatted sd … [continue reading...] delete, clear, and refresh arp cache thomass miller network no comments arp (addrеѕѕ resolution protocol іѕ the ѕtаndаrd mеthоd for fіndіng a hоѕt’ѕ hardware аddrеѕѕ whеn оnlу its nеtwоrk lауеr address is knоwn. in other wоrd, in ipv4 аnd ethеrnеt … [continue reading...] network connect error on java when try to use kvm winardi internet no comments network connect error happen when you try to connect your computer remotely via kvm, in my case i use kvm avocent dsr 1024. this is actually not kvm problem … [continue reading...] fire tv stick is so famous, but why? thomass miller hardware no comments fire tv stick is the most simple system to watch your streaming movies and do amazing things such as integration with your personal digital assistance alexa to help you … [continue reading...] nintendo switch lite – why are children so obsessed with it? thomass miller games no comments children are so loved nintendo switch lite for many reasons, it simple and beautiful, easy to be played, excellent to be held, good price and many more. introducing nіntеndо … [continue reading...] posts navigation 1 2 3 4 … 31 next search trending laptop shutdown suddenly – resolved huawei p30 pro, photography redefined print spooler keeps stopping windows 7- resolved avast free antivirus review android antivirus: does your smartphone need it? recent posts computer freeze after inserting dvd in drive – resolved laptop shutdown suddenly – resolved how to install windows server 2008 standard edition on dell poweredge r530 server beware of covid-19 (corona) malware online what is ram and its function in a computer categories android blogging case study code and symbol crypto games hardware how to information technology internet microsoft network pc security reviews smartphones social media software tech news troubleshooting tutorials utility software windows wordpress feed subscribe in a reader blogging tips and tech copyright © 2020. we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok