 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog 12 blogging mistakes that you should definitely avoid written by: anya skrba (published on: june 4th, 2017 last updated: november 20th, 2018) posted in: blogging 2 comments written by anya skrba facebook twitter pinterest linkedin at this point, even your grandmother knows that “you need a blog”, but not everyone knows how to be successful at blogging. you might know how to start a blog, but you have no idea how to make it productive and prosperous. we see a lot of people jump right in with little preparation and start churning away content with the little useful information that looks generic and boring to read. content like that would get seen by few people, and get your blog nowhere. regardless of whether you are an upcoming entrepreneur and want to use a blog to promote your business or a passionate expert in a niche looking to build a personal brand there are some things that you just don’t do. here is a list of mistakes that will ruin your blog and, therefore, you should avoid them. list of blogging mistakes you must avoid focusing on quantity over quality that is something that quite a lot of bloggers do. instead of focusing on providing quality content, they focus on quantity. there are two reasons for making this huge blogging mistake. the first has to do with people wanting their blogs to look fresh, always providing new stuff to readers. the second reason has to do with seo (search engine optimization). bloggers tend to focus more on improving their ranks in search engines, without caring too much about the quality of their content. that is exactly why the “quantity over quality” approach is a mistake. you may improve your seo ranking that way, but only for a short time, as your content will be underperforming. an excellent blog post requires time for adequate research, not to mention for writing and editing. only when you make sure to provide quality blog content, will you be able actually to yield positive results. failing to work on improving your grammar if you keep providing content filled with grammar mistakes, people will not think of you as a professional. you will paint the picture of a lazy blogger who doesn’t want to make an effort to appeal to and connect with the readers. grammar mistakes will kill your credibility. thus, if you are having trouble constructing correct sentences, make sure that you work on improving your grammar. you can use tools like grammarly and white smoke that would help you improve your writing. failing to select and focus on the right audience if you try and write content for everybody, your blog will end up being too generic. that will not bring positive results. you need to understand who your target audience is so that you can focus on tailoring your content to them. that is exactly how you will create a community of people who want to listen to what you have to say. focusing on a specific demographic will enable you to provide valuable content, relevant and useful to an audience. trying too hard to fit a rigid “style” if other bloggers in your niche have a tendency of writing in a kind of rigid style, it doesn’t mean that you must blend in and do the same. if you want to stand out in the blogosphere, the key is to be different. if you try too hard to fit in and be like everyone else, you may come off as dull. providing something unique that will differentiate you from all the other bloggers. that is what will make your blog successful. no matter the topic of your writing, you don’t need to be serious all the time. infuse your personality into your content, as that will help you connect with your audience. write like you talk, because that is the kind of content people enjoy and want to read. you are not a robot, after all, so loosen up and make your writing approachable. repeating others’ opinions one of the most common blogging mistakes is taking other people’s views and including them in your content as your own. that isn’t plagiarism, but it borders on it. if you want others to take you seriously, you cannot regurgitate others’ opinions – you need to have your own. if you repackage existing information, why should people read your blog in the first place? they can find what they need someplace else. if you share someone’s opinion, make a twist and show what you think about the matter in question. you can even cite others in your blog posts, which will help you forge new connections. nonetheless, the key is to tackle every topic from your perspective. that will make you unique and credible, and help you establish yourself as an expert in your niche. prioritizing your opinions and beliefs over precise information another one of the common blog mistakes is making it all about you. people are not interested in your personal stories if they don’t provide them with actual advice. if your ego doesn’t leave room for fair information catered to your target readers, you will lose your credibility. your number one priority is to provide useful information to your targeted audience. adding a personal touch is great, but don’t lose your focus and steer away from what matters to your readers. taking too long to get your content out procrastination is the killer of motivation and success. time is of the essence. the sooner you publish your content, the sooner you can reap the rewards and generate leads. one of the common blogging mistakes is trying to make your every blog post perfect. you should never obsess over it because there will always be something more to do to improve your content. the longer you take to get your content out, the more things you will want to change. sometimes, it’s better to hit “publish” and focus on your other tasks and new blog posts. after all, you can always update your posts anytime you want. failing to set up a coherent content schedule in the world of blogging, consistency is key. if you don’t update your content on a regular basis, you can lose a lot of traffic and quality leads. it can affect your seo ranking, and your readers may even completely lose interest in your blog. not only will, setting up a consistent schedule help you develop a habit, but your readers will also know when to expect new content. it will support you in establishing trust and credibility, as you will show that you are a professional who cares about them. spending too little time sharing your content on social media no matter the type of your blog, you run it to promote something, be it your business, your art, or anything else that made you want to create one in the first place. to promote your blog and its content, you need to attract customers or followers. what better way of doing that than to establish your presence on social media using social media tools? you need to share your content on the social media networks that preferred by the target audience. that way you can extend your reach and achieve your goals. you need to engage them and communicate with them so that you can build and grow your list of subscribers. you need to be active on social media, but remember not to spam your followers. that will only annoy them and push them away. focusing too much on self-promotion and sales pitches if you pitch every single blog posts and you indulge in too much self-promotion, you will have a tough time selling anything. people will see you as another marketer who doesn’t care about them. but instead, sees them only as sales opportunities. your blog should be so much more than a place for sales pitches. it should provide insights, solutions, and useful advice that will improve the lives of your audience. when you provide all that and give them value, you will instill trust, and sooner or later they will want to buy from you. thus, create content that will make a difference, and you can be sure that real sales opportunities will arise. failing to interact with the community you cannot ignore your readers and expect positive results. if you keep neglecting them, they will take their trust and loyalty someplace else. if you want to connect with the community you have created, you need to interact with your audience. answer their questions, respond to their comments, and take their feedback into account. if the audience suggests that you should change something, you should consider it. after all, it’s reader needs that you have to please. you never know – seeing things from their perspective may open the door to significant opportunities for improvement. interacting with your community will help you forge strong relationships, and they will feel valued. not taking the time to guest post on other blogs your blog shouldn’t be all alone in the vast sea of blogs. guest blogging will get you to a whole new world of possibilities. you can build a network of professional bloggers who can help you make a real difference. thus, take the time to connect with other bloggers in your niche. not only will you serve them to promote their content, but you will also enjoy free publicity from them, which can go a long way. if you connect with influential bloggers, it will be a matter of time when you become one of the big guns. conclusion if you want to make your blog successful, make sure that you avoid all these blogging mistakes. avoiding the common pitfalls of blogging will help you focus on what matters. you can step up your game plan and make sure that your every effort pays off in the long run. you can also check out some examples of successful blogs. learn how some bloggers made their content attractive and their blogs successful. this entry was posted in blogging. bookmark the permalink. additional reading how to become an authority blogger in your niche what is evergreen content and why your blog needs it? best of the best: 10 online grammar and punctuation checker tools 2020 how to create a marketing plan for your blog posterous is dead. what now? start your own blog this guide is an introduction to mastering the art of blogging. it provides easy to follow steps to start, maintain, and grow your blog. read the guide « previous why do people blog? the 15 benefits of blogging next » how to find a niche for your blog (step-by-step guide) 2 comments on “12 blogging mistakes that you should definitely avoid” cynthia daniel january 26, 2020 at 12:21 am thanks for giving me a list of things not to do. i sure appreciate a heads up on things to avoid which leaves me with the things to do. the links are most appreciated as well. just beginning to build my blog. i bookmarked this page. wish me luck. thanks again. reply anya skrba january 27, 2020 at 12:11 pm thanks cynthia. all the best with your blog! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog categories blogging wordpress interviews search how to start a blog the beginner's guide 2020 free guide + ebook learn blogging become a successful blogger learn wordpress understand the best practices blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.