if you're seeing this message, it means we're having trouble loading external resources on our website. if you're behind a web filter, please make sure that the domains *.kastatic.org and *.kasandbox.org are unblocked. main content to log in and use all the features of khan academy, please enable javascript in your browser. blog about impact team interns content specialists leadership supporters translators blog remote learning with khan academy during school closures 2020-03-05 17:32:59 gmt updated march 27, 2020 read this post in another language: հայերեն, bahasa indonesia, български, 简体中文, čeština, deutsche, ελληνικά, english (india), español, français, ქართული, italiano, 日本語, 한국어, magyar, po polsku, português (brasil), português (portugal), српски, svenska, русский, türkçe resources for schools, teachers, and parents we know there’s a lot on your minds from health and safety to child care and jobs. these are exceptionally challenging times as we close schools to stop the spread of covid-19, and we want to do everything we can to support you. khan academy is a free resource for students, teachers, and parents. we offer free lessons in math, science and humanities from kindergarten through the early years of college. students can use our exercises, quizzes, and instructional videos to learn and master skills. they will get immediate feedback and encouragement. resources to support you during school closures. we are having daily (weekdays) 12 pm pt/3 est live streams on facebook, and youtube for students, parents, and teachers navigating school closures. here are guides we’ve created for you: parents • daily schedules for students ages 4-18 to keep learning using khan academy during school closures • parent quick start guide • parents: frequently asked questions about supporting your child’s learning during school closures • getting started with khan academy and khan academy kids for remote learning (webinar video recording) • information regarding sat administrations, and how to use khan official sat practice with your child amidst school closures. • upcoming webinar schedule • wednesday, april 1: setting a daily schedule for young kids ages 2-7 (8 pm et | 5 pm pt) • thursday, april 2: setting a daily schedule for elementary school students ages 8-10 (8 pm et | 5 pm pt) • friday, april 3: setting a daily schedule for middle school students ages 11-13 (6 pm et | 3 am pt) teachers • get a free teacher account • set-up your classroom for remote learning with our quick start guide and video • ask your questions to expert khan academy teachers: • monday, march 30: office hours: talk to an expert khan teacher (12 pm et | 9 am pt) • tuesday, march 31: office hours: talk to an expert khan teacher (7 pm et | 4 pm pt) • wednesday, april 1: webinar: khan academy best practices for elementary school (4 pm et | 1 pm pt) • thursday, april 2: webinar: khan academy best practices for middle school (4 pm et | 1 pm pt) • friday, april 3: webinar: khan academy best practices for high school (1 pm et | 10 am pt) • catch-up with some of our best recent professional learning sessions: • how one teacher helped his students ace math… by taking them back to kindergarten! • 7 tips for effective remote learning — from setting up a schedule to addressing the emotional impact • how to engage and motivate your students… even when you’re remote! khan academy is a free resource for students, teachers, and parents. what is khan academy? we offer exercises, quizzes, and tests so students can practice and master skills, as well as instructional videos to help students learn or review material. • khan academy has a library of standards-aligned lessons covering kindergarten through early college math, grammar, science, history, ap® courses, sat® preparation, and more. • students can practice skills with exercises, quizzes, and mastery challenges and get immediate feedback and support. • khan academy is available in 40 languages. • students without laptops can access the khan academy website or use the khan academy app on smart phones. teachers get tools and reports designed specifically for them. • teachers can easily assign students an entire course—algebra 1 or ap biology, for example—a specific unit, or a specific skill. • teachers can easily track student progress with our reports. school and teacher resources: how can you use khan academy? we have several resources including a step-by-step welcome guide and a series of online videos featuring real teachers demonstrating how to use khan academy to assign instructional videos and practice skills and monitor student progress. all these resources are available at teacher essentials. teachers can also join our #teachwithkhan facebook group. how to get started: 1) create free accounts from our home page. 2) take a tour of our free content. 3) check out our teacher and parent resources, and learn how you can easily assign students a course to master. more questions? visit our help center. khan academy kids for early learners if you have a child ages two to seven, we recommend our free app, khan academy kids. in addition to building early literacy, reading, writing, language, and math skills, the app encourages creativity and builds social-emotional skills. it is 100% free, with no ads and no in-app purchases. khan academy kids is available on itunes, google play, and the amazon app store. khan academy is a nonprofit organization. our mission is to provide a free, world-class education to anyone, anywhere. with more than one billion children world-wide being impacted by school closures, we are experiencing soaring demand for our free resources. our ability to quickly increase our services is made possible by bank of america, at&t, google.org and novartis. if you are able, please consider making a donation. together, we can keep everyone learning. sincerely, the khan academy team comments khan academy kids adds new first-grade lessons 2020-03-02 17:04:49 gmt khan academy kids, our award-winning educational app for children ages two to seven, now includes new first-grade lessons. we’ve added thousands of interactive activities, lessons, and books: - more than 5,700 activities aligned with first-grade english language arts (ela) and math common core standards - more than 80 animated instructional videos featuring the animated characters of khan academy kids 59 new books: - nonfiction science books from national geographic and bellwether media - original fiction stories for early readers - books covering social-emotional topics and featuring compelling new characters like caterpillar, who showcases patience and self-confidence, and seahorse, who learns to be brave and face his fears to help his friend jellyfish the goal of khan academy kids is to help young learners everywhere learn to read, thrive in a classroom, count, be creative, ask questions, and—above all—build a love of learning. when we launched khan academy kids in 2018, we wanted to help kids from all backgrounds and all walks of life be kindergarten ready. this spring many of the children who are using our app will graduate from kindergarten and move on to first grade. we’re excited to be able to continue the learning journey with them by providing first-grade lessons. like the rest of the app, our new first-grade lessons are designed with a whole-child focus. our program engages kids in core subjects like early literacy, reading, writing, language, and math, while encouraging creativity and building social-emotional skills. khan academy kids is aligned with common core standards and the head start early learning outcomes framework, and it was developed in collaboration with education experts at stanford university. the new first-grade lessons are available now on the khan academy kids. the app is 100% free with no ads, in-app purchases, or subscriptions. download the app today on ios or android. download for ios download for google play download for amazon with the support of education leaders like super simple songs®, bellwether media, and national geographic young explorer magazine, we’re providing young learners with high-quality educational materials to spark a lifelong love of learning. khan academy kids is made possible through generous support from imaginable futures and windsong trust. comments seven books we love about black history and how to learn more about it 2020-02-18 18:17:29 gmt at khan academy we love to learn. as a learning organization, we often share book recommendations with one another. in honor of black history month, we asked our coworkers to share their favorite books by black authors that focus on the history of african americans. read on for seven recommended books as well as links to khan academy videos and articles where you can learn more about the historical events covered in each book. middle-grade fiction the watsons go to birmingham — 1963 by christopher paul curtis ten-year-old kenny lives with his family in michigan. his teenage brother byron gets into too much trouble, so his family heads south to visit their grandmother in alabama. grandma is the one person who can get byron into shape. it’s 1963, and they are in town when grandma’s church is blown up. recommended by leah (content team) learn more on khan academy about life in the south in the postwar era and how a resistance to desegregation resulted in anger and violence toward innocent people. middle-grade nonfiction child of the dream by sharon robinson the daughter of baseball legend jackie robinson shares her coming-of-age story of being a 13 year old in 1963 and becoming increasingly aware of political activism and the civil rights movement. recommended by allison (content team) learn more on khan academy about the civil rights movement. martin rising: requiem for a king by andrea pinkney a celebration of martin luther king jr.’s nonviolent struggle for civil rights. using metaphor, spirituality, and multilayers of meaning, the author and illustrator convey the final months of mlk’s life and his assasination. the school library journal says it is, “beautifully illustrated and begging to be read aloud.“ recommended by allison (content team) learn more on khan academy about martin luther king jr. from the montgomery bus boycott to the march on washington where he gave his famous “i have a dream” speech. adult nonfiction the warmth of other suns by isabel wilkerson an epic telling of a story that often goes untold in american history—the decades-long migration of millions of black americans fleeing the south searching for a better life in cities in the north and west. recommended by caroline (content team) learn more on khan academy about life after slavery for african americans and the urbanization of the 1920s. adult fiction kindred by octavia butler what would happen if you woke up and suddenly were on a plantation in the 1800s? butler’s science fiction novel tells the story of a modern day black woman who lives in california and finds herself time traveling back to the antebellum south. recommended by caroline (content team) learn more on khan academy about life for enslaved men and women in the united states in the 1800s. the nickel boys by colson whitehead based on the true story of a reform school for boys that operated for 111 years, the nickel boys dramatizes the story of two boys sentenced to the school during the jim crow era in florida. at the school the students have to deal with physical and sexual abuse, corrupt officials, and the danger of resisting, which can lead to disappearing “out back”. the novel was named one of time magazine’s best books of the decade. recommended by rosie (content team). learn more on khan academy about the origins of jim crow and segregation. homegoing by yaa gyasi from africa’s gold coast to modern day america, this book follows the parallel path of two sisters through eight generations. the publisher says that this “extraordinary novel illuminates slavery’s troubled legacy both for those who were taken and those who stayed—and shows how the memory of captivity has been inscribed on the soul of our nation.” recommended by stephanie (marketing team) learn more on khan academy about all of u.s. history because gyasi’s book really covers it all. comments college board & khan academy mark 10 million milestone of free official sat® practice 2020-01-27 19:42:49 gmt more than 10 million students have signed up for free sat practice on khan academy in 5 years in 2015, college board and khan academy partnered to make world-class sat practice resources free for all students for the first time ever. together, we created official sat practice on khan academy – a personalized online program that helps students practice for the sat with thousands of sample questions, instant feedback, video lessons, and full-length practice tests. as word has spread about our free resource, official sat practice sign-ups have grown each year and now total more than 10 million worldwide. thousands of students have shared their stories about official sat practice and the ways the program helped them improve their sat scores. here are just a few of those stories: “all i had before was a dictionary and books i could take from the library. when my teachers introduced me to khan academy, i was so happy that it was free.” matthew b., class of 2017, texas 200-point score increase “i liked the personalized study plan. […] the work is not at all tedious or boring; it’s engaging. i would tell other students, who can’t seem to focus on studying, to try khan academy.” monica b., class of 2018, maryland 150-point score increase “i liked how there was the ability to see if you got a question wrong instantly, as well as receive feedback on why you chose a wrong answer.” robert z., class of 2020, ohio 80-point score increase overall, official sat practice on khan academy is the top choice of students preparing for the sat. in a 2019 survey of more than 65,000 sat test takers, nearly four times as many students said they practiced with official sat practice than paid for commercial test prep. “official sat practice has achieved remarkable reach since its launch five years ago,” said college board ceo david coleman. “the fact that 10 million students have accessed high quality sat practice resources without paying a dollar is exactly why we partnered with khan academy. every student deserves the opportunity to practice for and succeed on the sat, no matter what their family’s income level.” college board and khan academy are committed to supporting teachers across the country to help their students make the most of official sat practice free resources. “what’s really exciting is the level of usage we’ve seen in classrooms,” said khan academy founder sal khan. “official sat practice was designed to be powerful for individual students preparing on their own, but this can be supercharged when it’s leveraged in a classroom setting where students get support from peers and teachers.” khan noted teachers are the heart of the classroom and know what’s best for their students. “they know how to help students on the path to college,” he said. “we’re grateful for everything teachers do every day to help students achieve their dreams.” the college board is celebrating the 10 million sign-up milestone during sat practice kickoff week january 27-31, 2020 with a campaign to encourage high school students to join the movement and create their own official sat practice accounts. students can learn more and sign up at satpractice.org/10million. comments 20 educational gifts for all ages: khan academy team’s favorite toys, books, and games for learning 2019-12-11 16:27:55 gmt it’s the season of giving! we asked the khan academy content team to share the gifts they love to give the children in their lives. find a special and educational book, game, subscription, or toy to add to your shopping list. subscriptions kids will love what’s better than one great gift? a gift that you receive monthly! our content team loves these subscription-based gifts for children. magazine subscriptions “i highly recommend ranger rick (and ranger rick jr) and national geographic kids magazine subscriptions.” anna berns, program manager, international content / localization community liaison kiwi crates “i like giving kiwi crates, which are great for the five- to eight-year-olds in my life, but kiwi co. also has crates for different age groups. i like giving these crates because each one includes super fun, hands-on steam projects with associated science and math instruction. i like to give a monthly subscription so they are a gift that keeps on giving.” megan cohn, biology content creator books the khan academy content team loves to give books as gifts to encourage relationship building and independent learning. a board book for babies “i always give board books as part of my baby shower gifts because the first thing a child should learn about a book is that it helps to build relationships.” charlotte auen, content creator, math pre-k through elementary “the book lottie and walter is good for pre-k to third grade—a story about overcoming fear and believing in yourself. the miraculous journey of edward tulane is a great book to read aloud to young elementary kids or to give as an independent read for older kids. it’s a beautiful story about how we change for the better if we open our hearts up.” allison leedie, content creator, english language arts “my six-year-old daughter loves bedtime math so much she wakes me up in the morning to do more of it. the problems are engaging. each one has three levels of difficulty, so kids of different ages and math readiness can all engage.” vicki lang, senior content manager, math middle school recommendations “i would gift puzzle mystery books! they’re a fun way to stretch your brain and fuel your curiosity. plus, there’s nothing more fun than solving a mystery before the main character does. my favorites: the westing game by ellen raskin, escape from mr. lemoncello’s library by chris grabenstein, and chasing vermeer by blue balliett.” kim elliott, senior content creator, humanities “graceling is for middle school and up. it’s just a great epic fantasy novel with amazing characters to root for.” allison leedie, content creator, english language arts high school and beyond “logicomix: an epic search for truth is a graphic novel about bertrand russell’s quest for fortifying the logical foundations of mathematics. this amazing book brings out the humanity in the most abstract science of them all. proofs and refutations by imre lakatos is a harder read and more appropriate for people who have grappled with proving theorems before. nevertheless, it read like a thriller to me. the book is a socratic dialogue between a teacher and some students about a proof of a famous theorem and its related definitions, which touches upon the nature of mathematical discovery.” tomer gal, content creator, math games and toys a lot of learning can happen when playing the games and toys picked by our content team. adults will enjoy these picks, too! guess who? game “guess who? is a great educational game for elementary ages and up for practicing categorizing, questioning, and noticing. you can swap out the characters and create new game sheets with historical figures, quadratic graphs, or elements from the periodic table — really anything that has similarities and unique features that you want children to discover. the game, as is or with modified characters, works in any language.” charlotte auen, content creator, math qwixx and rat-a-tat cat “both qwixx (dice) are and rat-a-tat cat (cards) are quick to play and a lot of fun. also, they are great strategic games for elementary-age kids but are fun for everyone!” lindsay spears, senior content creator, math u.s. presidents playing cards and women cards “most kids can’t name all of the presidents, so the u.s. presidents playing cards are a good way to remember faces and names. they are also organized in order of succession, so kids could memorize the order just by playing with them if they were playing solitaire or something similar. i also really like the women cards tech deck.” leah marquez, content creator, social studies perplexus original “i love the perplexus. it is a 3-d puzzle that my kids have spent countless hours on.” lindsay spears, senior content creator, math comments older posts department blogs coaching resources engineering international follow us subscribe to this blog join us on facebook follow us on twitter