 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog blogging 101 topics for beginners the blog is the backbone of the modern website. if you’re a beginner blogger and want to learn to blog you’re in the right place. in this section, you will find useful articles on how to start a blog and become a successful blogger. 8 types of blogs and bloggers. what type is yours? by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 1st, 2017 last updated: march 6th, 2020) posted in: blogging 4 comments in the blogging world, there are different kinds of blogs and bloggers who blog to reach specific goals. if you decided to start a blog, but you’re not sure what your blog is going to tackle, then identifying the type of blogger you want to become can help. in this post, we’re going to look […] 20 reasons why you should start a blog (for business and pleasure) by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: may 31st, 2017 last updated: march 6th, 2020) posted in: blogging 0 comment what is a blog and why start one? there are many reasons why you should have your blog. this article will look at twenty ways why everyone should have his or her blog. for some of us, there is nothing more satisfying than having the job of a dream. whether it’s engineering, art, biology, or […] posterous is dead. what now? by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: may 18th, 2015 last updated: march 8th, 2019) posted in: blogging 4 comments reaching for the stars an astronaut with a wrench floats in the void of space, with only a smoking satellite for the company. beside him are the words, “posterous spaces is no longer available.” on april 30, 2013, this popular service went down. at the time of its demise, posterous had an estimated 60,000 daily […] robot wisdom and how jorn barger invented blogging by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: march 20th, 2015 last updated: february 21st, 2020) posted in: blogging 16 comments jorn barger and where “blog” came from blogs are everywhere. everybody, every business, everywhere, has a blog these days, some run on free platforms like blogger and wordpress, but majority of blogs are created on self-hosted platforms where you are in charge of everyting. there are blogs on family, health, writing, music, news, a million […] 84 experts reveal the 3 best blog marketing tips by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: march 9th, 2015 last updated: march 6th, 2020) posted in: blogging 27 comments blog marketing 101 so you’ve started a blog. at least, we assume so, since you’re here at first site guide. maybe the blog’s for fun, maybe it’s for money, or maybe it’s because you’re bored. whatever you started it for, you started a blog instead of going out and buying a diary, so you probably […] free blog checker / fifth eye tool by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: january 8th, 2015 last updated: november 20th, 2018) posted in: blogging 1 comment tool description: summary. the “blog checker / fifth eye” tool comes handy when you have to check big lists of websites (urls). it lets you preview web pages in one display without annoying copy-paste processes and mark (vote) them yes or no. by using this tool, you can review 100s of websites in less than […] blogger icon set by firstsiteguide.com by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: november 23rd, 2014 last updated: december 12th, 2019) posted in: blogging 2 comments 60 free blogger icon set we’re happy to offer a free useful icon set for you. this cool set of 60 new blogger icons released by firstsiteguide and our friends from infographics.kz for the wordpress blog community. the icons are available as png (in two sizes) and ai source files and free of use in […] new blogger sans font by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: november 20th, 2014 last updated: march 7th, 2019) posted in: blogging 19 comments we’re happy to present you the “blogger sans” font, that was custom designed to be used on our website firstsiteguide.com. however, we would like to release this font 100% free, that means you are free to use it in any web design or blogging projects with one condition. the font is licensed under the creative […] why do people blog? by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: october 23rd, 2014 last updated: january 3rd, 2019) posted in: blogging 5 comments when blogging began, the original purpose was for individuals to share their personal lives online, similar to an online journal. over the last decade, blogging has evolved from having more personal to more professional goals. instead of individuals solely blogging for their friends and family, blogging began to encompass professionals blogging for the public to […] page 3 of 3 « previous 1 2 3 newer posts → blog categories blogging wordpress interviews search how to start a blog the beginner's guide 2020 free guide + ebook learn blogging become a successful blogger learn wordpress understand the best practices blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.