skip to content college info geek menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills remote view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new remote work, learn, and succeed from the comforts of your own home. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search all blog posts search for: how to beat the afternoon slump and regain your focus how to write a networking email that gets a response (with templates) how to get an internship (and stand out from the competition) how to become a freelance writer (and find your first client) these flashcard apps will help you study better in 2020 feeling overwhelmed? these 8 techniques can help 37 best college graduation gifts for the class of 2020 how to choose a college: 7 key factors to consider 35+ high school graduation gifts any grad will love 10 ways to improve your social skills and be more outgoing how to remember anyone’s name (even if you’re bad with names) the 6 best note-taking apps for ipad in 2020 how to get started with photography what is medical school like? an expert explains the reality the complete, step-by-step guide to creating a successful blog how to do research in 7 simple steps the 40+ best apps for college students 5 jobs to ditch the office and work from home posts navigation older posts more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.