skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about a guide to the best vpn services for netflix 2020 by jamie netflix has been at the forefront of streaming media since it first began offering video-on-demand services a decade ago. it quickly became a must-have service thanks to its ever-growing library of movie favorites, television shows, and original content. while the platform is available in over 130 countries around the world, that doesn’t mean that everyone … read morea guide to the best vpn services for netflix 2020 categories tech buying guides interview – cameron james from anymail finder by jamie anymail finder on finding and validating emails to grow your business businesses take email seriously and for obvious reasons. their customers prefer communicating over email, and the channel has a reputation of converting leads to buyers. in a study published by marketingsherpa a while ago, 72 percent of participants said that they prefer email when … read moreinterview – cameron james from anymail finder categories interviews the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews by jamie in today’s technology-driven world, most of us spend hours of our day sitting at a desk. whether we’re working eight hours a day at the office or spending hours on social media websites, the average person can spend upwards of one-third of their day sitting at a computer desk. evolution didn’t design the human body … read morethe best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews categories tech buying guides how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old by jamie while kids can’t get a normal 9 to 5 like adults, there are still several ways for them to start earning some cash through side hustles and making money online. whether you’re a parent looking to help your child out or a youngster wanting to get a head start on your money-making endeavors, there’s no … read morehow to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old categories make money online how to write a blog post – a guide for new & experienced bloggers by jamie we’ve all been there. you have finally come up with an exciting idea for your first blog post. so, you sit down to write. but then… nothing happens. despite all of the ideas you have swirling in your head, you just can’t bring yourself to put those thoughts into a readable format that your audience … read morehow to write a blog post – a guide for new & experienced bloggers categories blogging best social media management tools 2020 by jamie latest update: 16th march 2020 if you are on the internet, you are likely to have a social media account as well! that is how spectacular the rise has been with regard to the use of social networking platforms by users around the globe. whether it is individuals, professionals or businesses, most have a significant … read morebest social media management tools 2020 categories blog traffic, social best photo editing software for photographers 2020 – novice to experts by jamie whether you’re a budding artist looking to make your photos pop, a blogger who wants to create awesome featured images and pinterest pins, or a seasoned professional interested in streamlining your workflow, photo-editing software is a must-have. high-performance software is an important tool to have in your arsenal. it can help you make the most … read morebest photo editing software for photographers 2020 – novice to experts categories photography, graphic design 2020 internet stats: the state of the internet report by jamie the internet is becoming an increasingly prevalent part of our day to day realities. i’m sure a lot of us end up spending more time communicating through screens than we do physically with people in our daily lives. one thing is for certain, the internet and the role it plays in our lives is here … read more2020 internet stats: the state of the internet report categories business top 19 best google adsense alternatives 2020 by jamie google adsense has been the number one choice for bloggers wanting to make money from their blogs for many years. but there are many excellent reasons to look for google adsense alternatives. maybe you already have an adsense account; you’re looking for alternatives because you’d like to keep your website income diversified, or because you’d … read moretop 19 best google adsense alternatives 2020 categories make money online how to sell photos online – comprehensive guide for 2020 by jamie do your friends and family rave about your photography skills and think you should try to sell your photos online? think they’re right but not sure how or where to get started? today, you can easily sell photos and make some extra cash. if you’re good and you know how and where to sell photos … read morehow to sell photos online – comprehensive guide for 2020 categories make money online, photography cheap domains – a 2020 guide to where to buy the cheapest domain names by jamie creating and publishing a website is not always a cheap endeavor. most people don’t realize just how many things they have to pay for to get a site up and running. not only do you have to pay for development, but there’s also web hosting and domain registration to worry about. depending on the size … read morecheap domains – a 2020 guide to where to buy the cheapest domain names categories tech buying guides larry kim on search marketing, chatbots, and being a unicorn in a sea of donkeys by nicholas godwin bloggers and marketers are doing busy work instead of finding what works and maximizing returns from them. this habit of trying out too many things instead of nailing in on what works makes marketing unduly expensive. webmasters want to get the most profit without spending an excessive amount of money. but a lot of them … read morelarry kim on search marketing, chatbots, and being a unicorn in a sea of donkeys categories interviews the best cheap wordpress hosting – 2020 guide by jamie choosing the right host for your wordpress site is an incredibly important decision. you’ve 100% made the right decision in choosing the best blogging platform ( wordpress ) and now it’s time to make sure you get the right hosting. your website’s performance, security, and reliability are all influenced by your host. but, since you’re … read morethe best cheap wordpress hosting – 2020 guide categories tech buying guides best free web hosting sites – 2020 – ten of the best by jamie whether you’re looking to start a blog or you want to establish a solid internet presence for your company, creating a website can be a costly endeavor. most people are unaware of the expenses involved. not only do you need to purchase the domain, but you also need to host it on a server if … read morebest free web hosting sites – 2020 – ten of the best categories website cms wix alternatives 2020 – a guide to other website builders away from wix.com by jamie a web presence can be an invaluable marketing tool, and thanks to website building platforms like wix, creating a blog or online store is more accessible than ever. figuring out what you need in a site creator means understanding both what you need and what they’re bringing to the table in terms of site creation, … read morewix alternatives 2020 – a guide to other website builders away from wix.com categories website cms how to make money on twitch – 2020 guide by jamie have you ever thought about ditching your 9-5 and actually earning a full-time income, and possibly much more, playing video games? want to learn how to make money on twitch and turn those thoughts into making money online a reality? of course you do, and the good news is you’re in the right place. people … read morehow to make money on twitch – 2020 guide categories make money online post navigation older posts 1 2 … 20 next → best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub