instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "blogging" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: blogging rebecca 3 min read january 8, 2019 1 reply a new year, a new plan blogging, business there is always something refreshing about january. the back to school season is the official kick off for what my kids’ consider to be their new year, but for many of us, it’s january that we turn to for fresh ideas, new plans and goal setting. this year is no different for me. i have been quite absent here since before the holidays, but i promise that’s not because i haven’t had things to share – it’s because i really disconnected this year. although i am never truly offline (and rarely fully off work, given the nature of my job) it still meant that i wasn’t sharing stories like i usually do. even my instagram story presence (where i usually share snippets of my day/life) were quieter than usual. however, that down time, and our driving time in the car to visit family, and my quiet afternoons (that i thoroughly enjoyed) meant that i had plenty of time for planning and reflection. this is going to be my year. my year for what? i’m not 100% sure. but i plan on making it the year i full step into the light. the year i grow my social media and writing business. the year i help others carve out the time in their own lives they are craving for personal or professional creativity. i have big plans that involve me finally offering things i said i would for year. on this blog, i want to share more recipes, more stories, and possibly lean into my local love even further, while bringing my national readers tidbits that they can use and relate to. january is refreshing and this momentum feels amazing. in the meantime, i usually set out goals, intentions and even words to help guide the year. i’m not one to make resolutions per se, but having a few ideas to keep me on track has always been helpful. and it’s taken me a while to determine what a word to guide me might be but i think i finally found one: value. what i mean by value is that i need to appreciate my worth and value it. how i spend my time needs to have meaning and value (because it’s so important to me). my rates need to reflect my value. my ideas and creative process is valuable to those who i’m working with or collaborating with. i need to value my personal moments and those around me who help bring joy into my world. by remembering my own value, and realizing what i prioritize to be valuable, it will keep me focused and appreciative. so that’s that. the start to the new year has already begun and now that the kids are back in school i am feeling ready to create, plan, grow and succeed. how are you approaching 2019? rebecca 2 min read april 7, 2016 no reply online content: making a plan business this isn’t a parenting post, but when i’m not writing on this blog, i am doing some social media and freelance writing work. many of you know this already so i’m happy to share this post with you! i create content all the time. if you are a blogger, community manager, brand rep or small business owner, you likely are too. every facebook update, every blog post, every newsletter draft – it all is content in some form. i have presented at conferences like blissdom canada and social capital in ottawa about creating content. it takes some planning, and in some cases some patience. i’ve teamed up with lara wellman to bring a one-day learning and planning day to ottawa. we are going to be working with entrepreneurs, those in communications, virtual assistance and bloggers to help create a framework for digital content that will see us into the end of the year. by focusing on newsletters, blogging, facebook, instagram and goal-setting, participants will be working hard to fill out workbooks that will be their action plan for the next few months. i’m super excited because i’ve been helping people create content for years, and now have a way to really take the stress out of it for many. why should you attend? if you own a business, are starting up a business, work at home, are a virtual assistant or blogger i think you’ll take home a lot from the day. you’ll get: -delicious food and plenty of coffee to fuel your hard work -a workbook with actionable planning items that you customize and fill in as the day goes on. this will help build your framework. -a lot of tips and tools that you can use to create better content more efficiently. -a run down of facebook and instagram and how to apply them to your business. -networking with other small business owners -a clear direction on what to do next to create your best content …and much more! this day isn’t only about learning it’s about doing. we know how hard it can be to take the time to fill out plans and goals and set dates, but investing that time will save you more time and stress in the future. we want to help. interested? you can visit the website to register. the early bird ends april 8 so that’s the time to buy (and for blog readers use code rebeccavipfcd to save 15%). if you invest in this day, it will save you so much time in the future! message me if you have any questions! rebecca 6 min read june 3, 2015 4 replies thinking about heading to blissdom canada this year? blogging, small business, social media tickets for blissdom canada (october 15-18) are on sale now, and if you saw on facebook or in their newsletters, i am one of the fortunate people who have been asked to be a blissdom ambassador this year! what’s that mean? it’s a variation on the old community leader role and first and foremost means i, and the other ambassadors, are here to help answer your questions about the conference leading up to it and over the course of the weekend. think of us like cheer leaders and coaches all in one – we want to help and answer your questions along the way. i have a fun offer for you if you buy a ticket thinking about buying a ticket? one of my perks as an ambassador is that i get a small affiliate bonus when you use my link to buy. this link. open it, save it 😉 but, i want to make sure i say a thank you to you for not only using my link, but also investing in yourself. i get it. this is a big decision. it’s the same thought process i have each year when i spend the money. as a thank you, i am offering up a small gift to everyone who uses my link (just let me know if you use my link to buy your ticket and i’ll be in touch) and as time goes on i’ll probably add a few things. also, if you buy a ticket with this link, let me know so we can get excited together – and i can help answer any questions you have about getting ready for the conference. in addition, i’m going to do a draw for a 1 hour one-on-one coaching session that will focus on your blog and social media in preparation for blissdom for to lead you into the fall. i will help one of you (maybe more 😉 to really maximize the weekend. i will help you take some steps so that you can see the roi that i’ve seen in the past. naturally, whether you use my link or not, i want to help. so feel free to send me your questions, your concerns, etc. any time. that’s my job as an ambassador! all of the ambassadors for blissdom are a fun, welcoming group so you can catch any of us when you aren’t sure about something. it will be fun, and business focused 😉 finding pictures of myself at blissdom are always interesting. i make a lot of faces when i speak 😉 why should you attend blissdom? i’ve been to blissdom every year but the first (and even for that one i had a ticket but ended up not being able to go). i wrote a post on their website last year about why i think it’s a good business investment. i’m boring that way. while i would love to tell you how much fun you’ll have (you will) and how nice it is to be in a room of other like-minded business people (it’s fantastic) and how there is inspiration seeping out of everywhere all weekend, i won’t just focus on that. instead i can chat about it being a good business decision. because at the end of the day, i can’t invest in these conferences (which we all know aren’t free) just for the fun of it. it doesn’t work for me that way. we shouldn’t dismiss the fun aspect though. we work hard, and having fun and meeting up with friends from across the country has it’s own value. there is something so rewarding about being in a room of people who get what you do on a day to day basis and who together can inspire and motivate us. that is valuable. every year i leave wanting to do better, work harder and improve in the blogging community. no matter what, i do believe in investing in myself and my business. maybe you are in a creative rut, maybe you are a new blogger, maybe you are a veteran blogger looking for your next project; whatever the case, this conference will cover that. there’s also opportunity for roi. like it or not, it does come down to money for many of us when we make business decisions and in this case, the opportunity for roi is great. i’ve met brands that i have worked with, partners, clients – the opportunities are what you make of them. it takes some work of course. but being there, in person, makes a difference, that’s one thing i’ve learned over the years. thinking about going? make a plan for what you want to be doing with the blog or on social media in 3 months, in 6 months and in 12 months. this will help you determine what you want to take away from blissdom. before you buy, check out this contest now wait don’t buy your ticket yet. right now blissdom has a contest for those of you who have been before. they are looking for your success stories and by sending them in you have a chance to win your ticket. if you don’t win, then head back over and buy 😉 enter by june 14! once you’ve bought your ticket, be sure to let me know so i can keep track for my draw and fun stuff, plus we can chat away! blissdom canada is already shaping up to be huge this year. i really hope to see you there! i’m including a picture of these corn dogs. they were delicious. i regret not eating more. consider it a metaphor for going to the event. don’t regret not eating the corn dogs! photo credits: from the blissdom canada flickr account disclosure: this post contains an affiliate link. and a lot of rambling 😉 rebecca 5 min read may 28, 2015 2 replies working at home: preparing for the summer blogging, business, lifestyle has your family started a summer countdown? for those of you who know me, i am always excited this time of year. we are inching our way closer to summer holidays and i love that. my son has a countdown in his room and talks about it every day. june is always a busy month at school (mostly with field trips and fun) so they love that, we have spring sports in the evenings, activities on the weekend and work always is busy in june for both andy and i. ah yes, work. when you are a work-at-home parent, summer holidays look a little differently. during the year, i don’t work full time, i keep my hours low to ensure i have time for school volunteering and random house stuff, but it doesn’t mean that the summer won’t be a balance of deadlines and park visits. in my case, i am lucky because andy takes the summer off which means when i have a meeting, i don’t have to arrange child care (although my parents are fantastic to help out.) but it still means i’m trying to get work done so that i can take off on holidays or have some fun with everyone. each summer, i have more clients and more hours of work to do as the kids get older. here are some tips for fellow work-at-home parents who will be balancing kids and work. 1- start planning now it’s really not that far away. it’s time to start thinking about how your summer hours are affected. in my case, i also work with a lot of work-at-home parents, so i need to find out what their plans are for the summer too. the planning has already begun. don’t wait! in addition, now is the time to start setting expectations for everyone. chat with clients or partners about what your summer hours look like, update your business website with closures or ‘no ship’ dates if applicable, and get everyone ready for july and august. 2- determine your child care needs do you need to sign the kids up for camp? which weeks? will your partner be home at all? do you have back up people to call when a last minute meeting or request comes up? look at the entire summer plan. 3- mark your calendars look at your family and work calendar from june 1 until the beginning of school and start marking dates into both. yes, that entire time. make sure that you mark days off from your work calendar when you know you will be away, or the kids have an event. in my case, i’m already blocking dates for june field trips, moving meetings around, pushing some into july when i know child care is easier, and so on. i also do this with client holidays. 4- use those calendars to set deadlines if you are travelling on august 1, you don’t want to leave something until july 31. set some deadline dates for yourself, and mark them on your calendar. when a client requests something, or a blogging opportunity comes up, you’ll be able to see if you can accommodate it, not only based on your holiday schedule, but also your deadline schedule. 5- create a plan if you don’t already use an editorial calendar (or a project plan), now is the time to start. i use excel and mark off ideas, dates, links, client work, deadlines etc. so that each day i can see what’s coming up. 6- block work time during the day my best work time is the morning. from about 7-9 i get as much as i can done and the kids know i’m working. the kids are happy to have free time, and by about 9:30 we have plans to head out to a park or play date. when they are in school, i have the lunch hour/early afternoon to get things done, but in the summer i tend to shift this to a later afternoon time because i’m often out or busy. know when your kids have their best time and work with that too. 7- some days, it’s not going to be all fun and games deadline days may mean that the kids are going to have to step away from any camp home agenda for a bit and figure out their own fun (which, for the most part, is highly encouraged anyway, right?) i don’t feel guilty if i have to duck my head at the laptop and get it done one day, especially when we spend the summer doing a lot of fun things together. 8- don’t miss out reduce your hours in the summer if you need to, or shift your work time, but don’t miss out if you want to take the kids to the museum or play a board game on a hot afternoon. have fun, even in the chaos. what are your tips for working at home while the kids are around? share them below! rebecca 1 min read july 8, 2012 2 replies extra reading – writing here and there blogging this week has just flown by. it has been our first full week of school being over and between our trip to toronto, play dates and andy’s family coming in from out of town, i’m having trouble accepting that it’s sunday already. i’ve still been a busy bee (or at least trying to be) – in addition to this blog, i’ve been writing a few other places. i’d love it if you checked out the following links: as part of my mom central partnership as a disney junior mom, i was selected to write an article for disney junior canada that not only is on their website but was also sent to their many, many newsletter subscribers. that was exciting!! the article: win, lose and play i have a new gig writing for a pretty awesome company called beautygram. jennifer the owner is a spark of savvy and fun and i’m honoured to be writing some blogs for her. it’s fun for me to write about topics i don’t always get to. check out the beautygram i was sent as a thank you. what a great gift to get! there was a lot of discussion on twitter about the orange fashion post and the latest one discloses just how terrible my purse organization is. meanwhile, i’m still writing true blood recaps on kellidaisy.com because, well, i love the show and want to talk about hot vampires. july will continue to be pretty busy but the highlight will be our trip to pei. what’s on your list of ‘awesome happenings’ for july? rebecca 2 min read march 7, 2012 1 reply here, there and everywhere: what’s been happening, winter edition blogging it’s spring!! throw off the coats and run outside!! ok, i’m exaggerating, but today was so beautiful out it lifted my spirits in many ways. i took the kids to the agriculture museum and it was sunny, warm and fun. there were baby sheep (4 days old!) and i simply felt happy. meanwhile, i’ve been keeping busy with this blog of course (can i just say i love my little space on the interwebs 😉 but also working on a few other exciting things: –purging and cleaning house has become a weekend activity while we continue moving forward with the kitchen renos. thanks to heather at smart space organizing, i have a fantastic post about closet organization coming up – i shouldn’t be this excited but wait until you see the before and after pictures! –i’m loving spreading the word about momstown ottawa. they do so many amazing things in their communities and are hoping to bring momstown to ottawa. they are still looking for an entrepreneur to run it. you can find out more about working with them on their website. –i’m working with the ottawa 67’s, future shop and the boys and girls club of ottawa on an event to talk about bullying. more to come on this but i’m always happy to spend some time helping local organizations. –speaking of future shop, i tried and loved a pair of marley headphones and they are giving away a pair on my blog! you can enter to win here. i’m also working on my portfolio site – something i’ve been meaning to do forever to bring together all of the little pots i put my hands into, plus a few other exciting things. that is about 4 weeks behind what i had hoped, but at the same time i have been spending the past few weeks doing what i do best – playing 🙂 have some news/changes/updates you want to share? i love reading about fun projects people are working on! feel free to add them in the comments rebecca 3 min read february 17, 2012 no reply this and that: kindness launches, bloggy updates, my role with momstown blogging i will admit, i think the weeks are flying by. despite each of the kids each having a cold (one worse than the other) for a weekend in february and myself run down (but better now!) there is nothing ‘slow’ about february. it’s mostly been filled with family fun in truth. the kids and i are spending time at gymnastics, play dates, and museums and i think all of us sense that spring is in the air and are itching to go go go. when i can sit to write and chat online there’s a lot of exciting happening there as well. i’m the brand ambassador for momstown ottawa which is looking for someone to become an entrepreneur with them in this area. more to come on that, but i love what momstown stands for and what they do so it’s a wonderful position to have. check them out on facebook and twitter in the meantime and i’ll chat more about it here soon. kindness week launches today (february 17-24) and i’m blogging on their site over the next week about kindness as i have done for the past couple of years. i truly believe that the kind spirit should take place year round, but this week is a perfect way to highlight how fantastic this city is and most importantly how wonderful the people are. i have two giveaways coming up this weekend – one from future shop and one from the ottawa 67s so stay tuned for those! (the best way is to sign up to this blog by email – wink wink) in january, our first mind her business workshop took place that amanda degrace, gwen leron and myself co-organized. i think it was a huge success and most importantly it really helped me set some goals and plans while there. we hope to continue with some events which i usually post on my facebook page. plus, you may have been reading about my advertisers? can i just say how awesome they are? it may help that i’m also a customer for most of them (some before they were advertisers!) but really, having the ability to work with such businesses is a pleasure and if you get a chance, check them out. they are worth it! i’m also working on a few other things but it’s all a little hush hush right now but over the next couple of months more will be shaking. meanwhile, i continue to write about a little bit of everything on this blog, where my true writing heart lies. when i think about writing about kindness, and kid activities, and house renos, and television – i realize that i am really writing about the life of a mom aren’t i? there’s no rhyme or reason, no one topic that we focus on. just a little bit of everything. and i like that 😉 wishing you a kind week!! rebecca 6 min read october 18, 2011 39 replies blissdom canada recap: what i learned and where do we go from here? parenting on thursday until saturday i attended blissdom canada – a conference to discuss social media, public relations, blogging and online engagement. i feel like i am still processing everything, but wow i had such a great time. it was likely the combination of learning (which i love to do) and seeing/connecting with so many people that i don’t get to hang with every day (and some that i get to see more often but was able to have a blast with – ottawa peeps i’m looking at you!). i’ve decided to write out short lists to summarize the ocean of thoughts i have about the past couple of days in my head. there’s just so much swimming around up there, i need to get it down and break it apart. my favourite parts (and the stuff they can’t accurately describe on the website) meeting people that i have spoken with online for years, but don’t live near me. there were hugs (some awkward) and laughing and awesomeness. seeing people that i don’t get to see nearly enough. sometimes it seems like toronto and the surrounding area is so close. then i remember how far it is because so many people i love to be with are there. ottawa represents – we are a fun crowd. can i say that? ottawa is special. seriously, yes, i’m bragging, but we are our own community. it’s an inclusive group and we support each other. love it. i got to dress up! ok, that’s not what it’s all about, but i don’t get to do it often and it was fun. i am surrounded by talented and supportive people. how many times did i get to congratulate talented women this weekend on their new/continuing ventures? how many did i get to listen to talk about their strengths and share their goals and tips. countless. i felt loved all weekend. secret: all that chatting and meeting with people and mingling is stressful for me. no, really it is. it exhausts me. i do it because it’s rewarding – people are fun and i really have fun! but my anxieties leave me feeling silly sometimes or thinking i sounded like a dork (and yes, sometimes i did ha!). and yet, i never once felt judged. or unwelcome. or foolish. i felt like i was with my people. and it was during the opening remarks that i realized that. (sara and i: photo by cl buchanan photography) what i learned: from panels to conversations – taking it back to the blog i want to improve my writing, but do to that i need to keep finding my voice. but to do that, i have to be less guarded. no matter what though, i get to decide where to go with it (and i like that!) i love doing what i’m doing – blogging, sharing, connecting. it’s a perfect fit for me. i write about community giving and even if my blog is small, i think my online voice has a way to help. i love helping others – other bloggers, small business owners. even if it’s just sharing an idea or offer small piece of ‘how to’ help, i really want to continue to do that. my blog is my business. the minute i decided to monetize i had to start treating it like that. i have to get my admin in even better order. i don’t need to work with brands to be a good blogger. i will remain selective of those i work with. i love bit of foodsense and it needs some more attention – which i am going to give it. what’s next? more blogging on bit of foodsense. better time management for bit of momsense so i can focus only on great content – and those brands/advertisers i work with that are the best fit for me and my readers. make more time to connect with people. i’ve been able to do it more in ottawa, but now i want to see all those awesome toronto area people more! learn to write better. chip away at some of the walls i put up, the lack of confidence and work to improve my writing. areas i’d love to see focused on next year: focus on social media and small business/entrepreneurs the business of blogging – the conversation about monetization has been open, but if we are going to monetize, it becomes a business. what does that mean? what’s different? how small blogs make a difference, are of value and have their own niche. stats are important and tell a story but they aren’t everything. more time for connecting outside of sessions – this may be impossible but there’s so much value in it! eta (just thought of this): community management and jobs/careers in/about social media conferences like these are incredible work to put together, and i can’t thank the organizers enough for hosting a wonderful weekend. this was my first time and i loved it. meeting everyone and participating was valuable for not only my blog but more importantly for me. if you were at blissdom and i didn’t get to meet you, i’m sorry. and i mean that because as i had suggested to others, i wish there was a way to meet every participant in a reception line (or speed dating way as someone said) just to be able to put names and faces together. the smiles of so many lovely people warmed my heart and lifted me in ways that can’t be explained. lastly, i ate supper at a place with sushi on mini boats that floated around where we sat and i could grab sushi off the boats. sure, maybe it was the company that made this a hilarious and fun time, but it was pretty awesome. 🙂 thanks for the memories and motivation blissdom canada! rebecca 1 min read may 12, 2011 6 replies cityline blogger of the month blogging you could imagine the excitement i felt a couple of weeks ago when suzanne from cityline online contacted me to let me know that i am the cityline blogger of the month! a little bit of momsense is going to be featured for the month of may on their website. i did a phone interview talking about blogging and why i feel this is a really great space for me. please take a peak at the extremely kind write up on their website. in the meantime, if you’re swinging by this blog after reading about me on cityline, hello and welcome! i just returned from a family vacation in toronto and niagara and will be posting more about travelling with the family soon. we do a lot of road trips so i’m learning some tips and tricks each time! looking forward to all the new and exciting things happening in this space. thanks for stopping by and reading, commenting and chatting! rebecca 2 min read april 27, 2010 17 replies welcome to the new a little bit of momsense uncategorized here it is – the new home of a little bit of momsense! it’s got a new look. it’s got a nifty, personal url. it still has the same content – food, family, fun, freebies. it still is a work in progress, but i hope you enjoy it. take a peak at the top pages – they all have to be filled out more but it’s a start. i’ll be adding some more items to the side bars, including logos for sites that i write for or love. finding giveaways and reviews will be made easier, and i’ll finally have a pitch policy developed. after working with a wonderful designer (gemma from mg moore designs – an ontario mom who exhibited a lot of patience with me!) it’s really looking like something, i think. i am proud of this site and the communication i have with my readers. i hope you continue to read and visit. 🙂 there are still some glitches – i haven’t been able to import all of my comments – many are missing. and i’m still learning some of the coding for certain links plus i need to categorize all my posts to make them easier to search. i need to make sure that subscribers get moved over etc! but that’s part of the fun, right? – the learning process! i am especially proud to announce the unofficial launch of a little bit of foodsense, a branch of this blog. i will eventually be able to have a much neater place for recipes and food related posts. it even has a home (one day) at www.bitoffoodsense.com stay tuned for some fun giveaways when i sort the foodsense site out a bit more. what do you think? do you like the new logos? thanks for reading. i look forward to learning and growing even more! facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.