home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact menu home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact search close travel blog highlights hello! if you are new to the culture map, here is a good place to start exploring. i’ve gathered together a few of my most popular and useful posts. they give you an insight into where i’ve been and the stuff i enjoy doing and writing about. please do make a regular pitstop over at this little corner of cyberspace because i’m always adding shiny, new posts and resources! adventure blog the incredible hike to laguna torre in el chalten, patagonia martillo island: see and walk with penguins in patagonia visiting svalbard: the last stop before the north pole what’s it like driving your own team of husky dogs in arctic norway? adventure through little petra and beyond windswept: exploring wadi rum by jeep scandinavia which is the best city in scandinavia? exploring south sweden – malmö, ystad, lund and helsingborg the puffins of mykines on the faroe islands longyearbyen, the world’s northernmost town geology rocks! basalt columns in iceland 27 most colourful towns & cities in scandinavia unusual places the cave temples of mamallapuram in tamil nadu, india the bone cemetery: a visit to capuchin crypt in rome the igloo hotel: what’s ‘sleeping on ice’ really like? warning! this post contain’s penis… iceland’s phallological museum in reykjavik shrunken heads at the pitt rivers museum in oxford kunstkamera: is this the weirdest museum in st. petersburg? provoking refugee crisis: 9 things you should know about the calais jungle does boycotting a country do more harm than good? whaling in the faroe islands: both sides to the story running of the bulls (so what if it’s tradition?) useful links home about blog work with me press popular iceland norway japan patagonia england facebook twitter instagram stay updated join my monthly newsletter for travel guides & tips email send