toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog june 12, 2019 some resources for you (#8) i’m too lazy too busy editing to put a lot of time into blogging these days. but you are still on my mind… and that is why i have compiled this list of resources for you. 🙂 i am doing this from time to time. i’ve already published: – some resources for you (#1) – some resources for you (#2) – some resources for you (#3) – some resources for you (#4) – some resources for you (#5) – some resources for you (#6) – some resources for you (#7) resources for bloggers a quick guide to crafting guest post pitches that convert resources for freelancers how to save money as a freelancer resources for authors 28 resources, tools, and tips for self-publishing your next book resources for writers of all kinds! 4 ways to create (and maintain) a writing habit resources for business owners (solopreneurs and entrepreneurs) 3 ways to find talented freelance bloggers for your business additional resources (for success) instant flow: how to train yourself to think creatively free stuff all of these resources are fantastic! plus… as my way of thanking you for being a reader of wording well, i want to give you some free stuff. find my freebies on my resource kit page! plus, there are many more (and i mean many more) resources for writers, authors, and freelancers) here as well! enjoy… and let me know what you want more of… in the comments! june 4, 2019 some resources for you (#7) i’m too lazy too busy editing to put a lot of time into blogging these days. but you are still on my mind… and that is why i have compiled this list of resources for you. 🙂 i am doing this from time to time. i’ve already published: – some resources for you (#1) – some resources for you (#2) – some resources for you (#3) – some resources for you (#4) – some resources for you (#5) – some resources for you (#6) for bloggers how to write a blog post people actually want to read for freelancers how to budget your cash flow as a freelancer for authors and writers celebrating your accomplishments as a writer and an author for business owners (solopreneurs and entrepreneurs) 4 key challenges all solopreneurs face and how to overcome them additional resources (for success) how to stay motivated even when things aren’t going your way free stuff all of these resources are fantastic! plus… as my way of thanking you for being a reader of wording well, i want to give you some free stuff. find my freebies on my resource kit page! plus, there are many more (and i mean many more) resources for writers, authors, and freelancers) here as well! enjoy, and let me know what you want more of… in the comments! may 11, 2019 9 easy ways to get a better sleep do you need a night of better sleep? when you aren’t sleeping well, your brain isn’t functioning at its peak. it’s easy to treat our bodies as if we’re invincible and think something as silly as sleep is only an issue of mind over matter, but that’s not how it works. taking care of yourself is important! you want to be comfortable in a happy and healthy body because a healthy body will get a lot more work done than a sluggish one. this matters even more for bloggers, freelancers, and other entrepreneurs who depend on their minds to be sharp to get their work done. if you use these 9 tips for getting a night of better sleep, you will definitely have the motivation to work! you will also improve your work-life balance! 1: keep a consistent sleep schedule when you work for yourself, it’s easy to ignore any kind of routine, but this one matters. by sleeping at the same times every day, you train your internal clock. this can lead to falling asleep faster and waking up easier, which means less wasted time staring at the clock, waiting to fall asleep. 2: exercise daily exercise will help your body feel ready for rest at night. not only will it help you fall asleep faster, but it will keep you asleep for the night. even light exercise can produce a significant improvement. 3: make your bed a relaxing place to be invest in a comfortable mattress. if your mattress has reached ten years old, it is definitely time for a new one. also, look into quality egyptian cotton sheets and quality pillows. 4: don’t look at your phone it’s a routine that many of us have gotten into, and it’s a bad idea. the blue light from your phone will not help you get to sleep. you could turn on the feature that reduces the blue light, but you should avoid looking at your phone before you go to bed. if you’re really having a hard time with this, put your phone in another room at night. keeping this distraction out of your room is a great way to get better sleep. you might need to buy an alarm clock if you place your phone far away. however, what i do is use the do not disturb feature on my phone. this feature turns off all sounds on my phone (including notifications as well as stopping it from ringing) but it allows the alarm function to still work. so, when i need to wake up, i can still hear the alarm! it always works, too, because i chose a really annoying alarm and i set it to the maximum volume! read more april 23, 2019 where to find the motivation to work do you struggle with finding the motivation to work, even though you are an entrepreneur? the greatest part about being an entrepreneur or a freelancer is that you’re your own boss. you don’t have someone peering over your shoulder at all times. you don’t have to worry about sleeping in and getting fired. the list goes on and on. however, this can be a big disadvantage as well. what do i mean by this? well, let me explain. when you’re depressed, anxious, or easily distracted, you can end up being less productive. this can mean less income or more time working on stuff that seems to take forever to do. here are some ways you can get the motivation to work. play some music when you’re bloggingg or doing something else that requires intense focus, playing some good music can help you keep focused as you work. many people will have different ways to play music. some people will stick to binaural beats and white noise that is ambient and drowns out everything around them so they can stay focused. some like to play classical music or soundtracks. there are some who like songs with singing, though this may be distracting for some people. just open up youtube or spotify and see what the music gods can give you. you may even discover music that you never thought you’d like. eliminate distractions if you have children around, try to work when they are away. if you are always looking at social media, try using filters to block the site or limit your time during working hours. check all your emails before you work, or after. being able to do these things can help you stay focused. when you have a normal job, it’s easy for you to stay on track because you may be reprimanded if you aren’t. with freelance work, you may find that you have to discipline yourself a bit. read more april 15, 2019 5 blogging tips for busy college students busy college students have multiple assignments to submit, essays to write, and exams to prepare for. does this make you wonder why you even bothered to begin blogging in the first place? firstly, starting a blog in college is a great decision. apart from improving your writing skills, it helps you form a strong network, build your personal brand, and push your creative boundaries while making money on the side. it sure is difficult to manage a busy college schedule and run a blog… but it is not impossible! all you need to learn is how to manage your time effectively. if you do that, there is no stopping you from being productive in every aspect of your life! here are 5 tips to succeed as a blogger if you are an extremely busy college student. tip #1: allocate time to blog sometimes, in spite of having the intentions to blog, it’s easy to get busy with college and ignore your blog in the process. in order to take blogging seriously, you need to set aside time specifically for doing tasks related to your blog. from brainstorming ideas and curating content to scheduling and promoting it, blogging is a time-consuming process. however, if you give yourself 2 hours every day or devote a few hours every weekend to it, you are likely to make better progress. ultimately, having a schedule and organizing your tasks lets you be more disciplined and productive. that way, you don’t even feel guilty choosing one thing over the other. tip #2: prioritize wisely while you have allocated blogging time, it’s important to prioritize wisely as well. after all, there is no denying that focusing on academics is of utmost importance and nothing should take precedence over that. for instance, if you need an essay written now, you need to focus on your submissions rather than spending time on your blog. so, be prepared for unexpected delays and tasks added to your to-do list. plan your days accordingly and don’t lose focus of the bigger picture. tip #3: maintain an editorial calendar you might think you can hurriedly jot notes on your phone and schedule posts when you feel like it. this way of working is not only haphazard but can also affect the quality of your work. instead, why not maintain an editorial calendar? doing this will let you streamline your thoughts and consistently post in a timely manner. don’t be too hard on yourself by posting every day or every second day. studies have shown that posting daily on your blog won’t work. determine the time you can allocate to blogging, decide on a posting schedule, and stick to it. give yourself deadlines so you know you have to publish a post in the given time period. read more « 1 2 3 4 … 57 » wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy