menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login blog posts 14-day meditation challenge: put down your phone and be by zachary goodson in blog, mindfulness & peace “meditation is the ultimate mobile device; you can use it anywhere, anytime, unobtrusively.” ~sharon salzberg i came home from my doctor’s appointment last week and rambled off three to four different things that were happening in the world as a … if you think people-pleasing is being kind… by johanna schram in blog “i don’t need a friend who changes when i change and who nods when i nod; my shadow does that much better.” ~plutarch people-pleasing can seem iike a way of connecting with others. we believe that if we keep people … stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy by sandy woznicki in blog, change & challenges, healthy habits, mindfulness & peace “health is not just about what you’re eating. it’s also about what you’re thinking and saying.” a virus is spreading across the globe. schools are shut down. people are out of work. grocery stores are empty. weddings, graduations, vacations, a … trauma can make us sick: how i found a key to healing by casey hersch in blog, change & challenges “our bodies contain our histories—every chapter, line, and verse of every event and relationship in our lives.” ~caroline myss i could hear my teacher talking, but i wasn’t listening. staring at the math homework in front of me, i couldn’t … 3 approaches to the coronavirus (and which is smartest) by lynn roulo in blog “don’t try to calm the storm. calm yourself. the storm will pass.” ~buddha as we all now know, the coronavirus (covid-19) has been spreading globally. it is a serious threat, less because of the raw numbers involved (as of march … free online summit to cultivate mindfulness and compassion by lori deschene in blog, happiness & fun, mindfulness & peace hi friends! as you may know, i’m always excited to share free events that can help us heal, find peace, and learn to meet each other with more patience, kindness, and compassion. and i’m particularly passionate about mindfulness. the more … how i overcame my relationship anxiety and doubts by ella in blog, love & relationships “to love is to risk not being loved in return. to hope is to risk pain. to try is to risk failure. but risk must be taken because the greatest hazard in my life is to risk nothing.” ~leo … how to take good care of yourself during the coronavirus pandemic by suzanne falter in blog, healthy habits for more than a week now, i’ve been immersed in how to handle the pandemic that is unfolding all around us. by now, one thing is clear to me. we are either our greatest allies or our own worst enemies … how i overcame my anger to be better for my family by stephanie weiderstrand in blog, change & challenges, letting go “where there is anger, there is always pain underneath.” ~eckhart tolle as a special-needs parent, it feels that i am in constant anger and fight mode. i am fighting with my children on the home front. i am fighting for … deep down you know when it’s time to let go by christine rodriguez in blog, letting go “holding on is believing that there’s only a past; letting go is knowing that there’s a future.” ~daphne rose kingma one of the most challenging things in life is knowing when to let go—when to let go of a … how to stay mindful and safe amid the coronavirus outbreak by yurika vu in blog, change & challenges, mindfulness & peace “we cannot always control everything that happens to us in this life, but we can control how we respond.” ~lionel kendrick the coronavirus is no longer isolated to just china. it’s here, affecting over ninety countries, and it continues to … why my “self-care” did more harm than good by laura mckowen in blog, healthy habits “self-care is how you take your power back.” ~lalah delia self-care is not a bubble bath. i mean, it might be, if you’re the kind of person who feels like they’re committing a mortal sin by allowing themselves to wade … i used to be hungry all the time by roni davis in blog, healthy habits i mean, hungry allll the time. basically, if i was awake, i was ready to eat. i’d mindlessly pick at whatever was available. i’d wander the kitchen feeling “snacky” all the time. i’d be completely consumed with thoughts of what … i want to be rich in memories by aida sarsenova in blog, happiness & fun, mindfulness & peace “my life isn’t perfect, but it does have perfect moments.” ~unknown practice was over, the hot florida sun was settling in behind the tall bleachers, casting golden rays onto the track. behind me was my dear school, engulfed in beautiful … how to know if hidden low self-esteem is holding you back in life by carly ann in blog, change & challenges “forgive yourself for not knowing better at the time. forgive yourself for giving away your power. forgive yourself for past behaviors. forgive yourself for the survival patterns and traits you picked up while enduring trauma. forgive yourself for being who … why you should love your imperfect self by katia aguirre-vega in blog, love & relationships “love yourself first and everything else falls into line.” ~lucille ball if you were to ask me ten years ago what self-love meant, i would’ve probably said something general like “being happy.” but self-love goes way deeper than that; it … simple ways to deepen your connection with the natural world by carrie ciula in blog, mindfulness & peace “i only went out for a walk and finally concluded to stay out till sundown, for going out, i found, was really going in.” ~john muir somewhere, stashed away in my collection of childhood memories, i recall having this small … if you’re hoping they’ll change, they’re not right for you by vivienne singer in blog, love & relationships “love is the ability and willingness to allow those that you care for to be what they choose for themselves without any insistence that they satisfy you.” ~wayne dyer when i married my ex, he had the potential to be … 10 things you need to know to have a strong, happy relationship by kj hutchings in blog, love & relationships “the most painful thing is losing yourself in the process of loving someone too much, and forgetting that you are special too.” ~ernest hemingway when i was in my early twenties, i was in a relationship with a man … how to stop agreeing to things that aren’t good for you by hailey magee in blog, love & relationships “agreeing to things just to keep the peace is actually a trauma response. when you do this you’re disrespecting your boundaries.” ~dj love light two years ago, i moved from new england to the pacific northwest. it was time for … page 1 of 18412345...102030...»last » translate get more fun & inspiring images & videos. fun & inspiring do what you can disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top