content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip so you want to blog for cmi – blogging guidelines thanks for your interest in blogging for content marketing institute! we love connecting with writers who can help us fulfill our mission: advancing the practice of content marketing. what should i know? write for our audience: professionals with experience in content marketing at mid and large b2b and b2c organizations craft a fresh article with relevant and practical takeaways. the article must be original and have not been published elsewhere. check the cmi blog for other stories on the same topic and make sure that your story tells readers something new, follows a fresh angle, or offers suggestions on how to do something better (rather than just why and how to do it). give credit. check your facts and quotations. cite the original sources (not the source that quoted the original source.) create an engaging introduction specific to your article. make it concrete. give examples (even better if they’re examples from brands that don’t sell to content marketers), details, metrics. write just long enough to engage and enrich readers. we don’t have a word-count goal. disclose any relationship/partnership you have with links or sources in article. (limit your use of these to one or two per article. cmi does not allow links to gated content, but we do allow ungated links to articles and blogs that illustrate a point in your story.) avoid self-promotion in the article. your author bio is a good place to do that. credit third-party sources. if you contribute a quote or tip to another author’s article, we will include a link to your individual (not corporate) social media or other profile of choice. links to corporate websites or social channels won’t be included. how do i submit a post? please complete this form to let us know more about you; you’ll attach your completed draft to the form as a word doc (preferred) or google doc format. please note: we only consider complete drafts (not pitches). what happens next? all submissions are reviewed regularly by the team. you will be notified if your article is accepted (or not) within three weeks of submission. want more details on writing for the cmi blog? see our faqs. got questions you don’t see answers to? shoot us an email: cmi_blog@ubm.com. we’ll be happy to help. connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree