toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog january 24, 2020 why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) becoming an author can help your business in many ways. the wonderful thing about today’s digitally advanced world is that anyone can become an author. yes, anyone. if you’re an entrepreneur or business owner, there are 3 reasons why you should consider publishing a book or an e-book (or both!). you will learn these 3 reasons in this article. you will also see and hear proof of how becoming an author can help your business from 4 real people i know! plus, you will learn how to become an author within months, easily! i will also outline the steps for how to write a book and give you additional information regarding printing and formatting your book. you can even watch a video of the steps to becoming an author. (this is video #2. i did a facebook live video about the contents of this article before this post was published. this live is video #1.) and… you will see that becoming an author is easy if you have help (and patience) and follow these exact steps to becoming a self-published author on amazon/kdp. video #1: why becoming an author can help your business + how to become one, easily! 1: becoming an author adds credibility (+ several other things)! the first way that becoming an author can help your business is by adding more credibility to yourself as an expert in your business field—whatever field your entrepreneurial skills happen to lie in. becoming an author can help your business because adds prestige to your life and your business. it also gives you bragging rights and allows you to truthfully say, “i am an author!” becoming an author can help your business in other ways, too. it can lead to other opportunities, such as creating more books, having book signings, and even creating courses based on your books, which will help you earn more money! 2: becoming an author will help your business because you will earn extra passive income by selling your books and/or e-books! there are three types of income: portfolio income, active income, and passive income. portfolio income is income from investments, dividends, interest, and capital gains. active income is generally defined as income earned from selling a service. passive income is defined as money you can earn on an ongoing basis that doesn’t require any effort except for the initial work, such as rental income, affiliate income, or book/e-book royalties. it’s always nice to receive an email notification saying that a deposit has been made into your account! if you become an author, this will definitely help your business profits skyrocket! 3: if you don’t publish a book, you are missing out on a huge market, so becoming an author will help your business reach new customers! a lot of people are on amazon as readers, not as consumers of your product or your services, but you can easily convert them to consumers if you publish and sell an e-book. why and how? as a business owner, you are probably already on social media (facebook, twitter, linkedin, etc.) and you already have a bunch of people on your email list… so you are already reaching a ton of people. that’s great, but you still aren’t reaching the amazon audience. there are millions of people on amazon who are readers. they like digesting stories and learning new information. (people buy books for many reasons.) if you don’t have a book to sell on there, you’re missing out! if you publish a book that is based on something related to your business, then you can put it on amazon and tap into that market. you can use your e-book as a funnel to take those readers from amazon and funnel them to your website to your products, to your services, or to whatever it is that you’re offering! how? just include some hyperlinks in your e-book and entice readers to click on them! amazon will even help you make sales! if you’ve ever bought anything from amazon, you already know that amazon recommends certain products by saying, “people who bought this also bought…” clearly, amazon is the way to go if you want to earn some extra cash and tap into a new market! becoming an author can help your business become more profitable! read more september 25, 2019 why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) a business evaluation can provide you with valuable insight as to how your business is making money and how you’re spending it. taking a closer look at your finances can reveal things you never knew about your company’s finances, and where you need to plug potential holes in your expenses. here are 5 things you should evaluate when performing your business evaluation. business evaluation component #1: employee performance labor is probably the biggest expense for your business, and if your employees aren’t measuring up to certain standards, you’re throwing away your money. as business owners, we set standards to ensure that we’re paying employees fair wages, based on what they can do and how well they perform in their areas of expertise. if employees aren’t measuring up, it’s time to take a look at how this really impacts your finances. let’s say you’re paying someone $50,000 per year for a high-level job that requires a lot of work. this employee has continuously failed to meet goals throughout the year, causing other employees to have to pick up the slack and help do their job. not only is this detrimental to the cost of keeping this employee on the payroll, but it can cause serious frustration and extra work for other employees. if someone on the payroll isn’t measuring up, perform a review twice a year and give them goals to reach. if they continuously fail to meet those goals, it may be time to consider seeking out a new person to fill that position. additionally, because blogging can help your business thrive, you should be sure to hire bloggers who can create compelling content for you on a regular basis. this will help boost your brand’s visibility online as well as help you rank in the search engines. read more july 16, 2019 how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp is the topic of this article. it contains both an infographic of the steps as well as the steps listed in text form, with a full explanation for each one. self-publishing (and becoming an author) is easy! self-publishing in today’s world is easy. anyone can become an author, nowadays! many people, however, get overwhelmed with the process, because there are many steps involved in reaching their dreams of becoming an author. that is why wording well offers help to those who need it! that is also why i put together this article. it outlines the steps to becoming a self-published author and how to self-publish a book on amazon through kdp. this article also lists the steps in the order they need to be taken, making it easier for you to understand what is required for you to achieve your dream! an infographic of the steps for how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp) the following infographic lists the steps for how to self-publish a book on amazon. below it, you will find a full explanation for each step, so keep reading! a special thanks to the team at airtract for creating this infographic for me! a huge thanks to invideo (affiliate link) for making this video for me! invideo (normal link) is an saas platform that helps anyone transform their content into great videos. they help serve publishers, media companies, and brands to expand audience engagement through the power of video content. how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp 1: write a book. this is the hardest part of the whole process. it’s time-consuming. you might suffer from writer’s block during this step. you might lack discipline while writing your book. that is why it is important to hire a coach or find an accountability partner who will help keep you focused and on target during this phase. there are many steps involved in writing a book and the best one i have found to help you through your journey is the post from write to done called the ultimate guide to plan and write your book. it contains the following tips you can use: step #0: check that people actually want this book step #1: get clear about your book’s eventual format and purpose step #2: figure out a working timetable step #3: get your book’s outline started by mindmapping step #4: develop your ideas into an outline step #5: fleshing out your chapters with key points step #6: make writing a breeze with your standard chapter template step #7: tackle your writing in a sensible order step #8: staying focused when you sit down to write step #9: knowing how to write each sentence of your book step #10: follow your working schedule (and get back on track when needed) of course, if you are writing an e-book instead of a full-length novel, this step won’t take you nearly as long! 2. edit your book. hire wording well’s editor, lorraine reguly, for this! (yes, hire me to edit your book. i am a fantastic editor! just check out the testimonials i have received from some of my clients!) editing is a necessary component of the writing process and is essential to your book’s success. if your book is not properly edited, you will receive bad reviews on amazon, you will lose readers, and you will lose money. people won’t buy your book if they see negative reviews. they also won’t buy any additional books you might write. it’s worth it to pay for an editor’s services, skills, and knowledge once. by investing in an editor, you are also investing in yourself. you are proving that you are worth listening to, too. people will, therefore, be impressed with your book, the way it was written (ergo, the way it was edited), and you will gain fans for life! you will also reap additional rewards, such as great reviews on amazon! 3: finalize the book’s text. if you have hired me for step 2, this part will already be done. if you hire a different editor, that person might suggest you rewrite some sections of your book. in that case. you will need to have your book proofread by an experienced editor or proofreader (such as myself). do this to ensure the quality of your book is high and your words, sentences, and paragraphs are perfect (without typos, grammatically correct, and impactful). 4: add images, if desired. images are easy to add to books (to both the digital and print versions). many authors are now adding images to their books because it’s easy to do so. i included many images in my book, from nope to hope. maxwell ivey included many pictures of his trip to new york city in his book, the blind blogger’s nyc adventures. (note that this link is an amazon associates affiliate link.) read more june 26, 2019 some resources for you (#10) i’m too lazy too busy editing to put a lot of time into blogging these days. but you are still on my mind… and that is why i have compiled this list of resources for you. 🙂 i am doing this from time to time. i’ve already published: – some resources for you (#1) – some resources for you (#2) – some resources for you (#3) – some resources for you (#4) – some resources for you (#5) – some resources for you (#6) – some resources for you (#7) – some resources for you (#8) – some resources for you (#9) resources for bloggers how to write catchy headlines and blog titles your readers can’t resist resources for freelancers top 25 free online courses for freelancers resources for authors all new 2019 book publicity & marketing toolkit! resources for writers of all kinds! 17 sizzling tips to becoming a hot writer resources for business owners (solopreneurs and entrepreneurs) how to create a sales page for your first online course or product additional resources (for success) focus as an antidote for wanting to do everything free stuff all of these resources are fantastic! plus… as my way of thanking you for being a reader of wording well, i want to give you some free stuff. find my freebies on my resource kit page! plus, there are many more (and i mean many more) resources for writers, authors, and freelancers) here as well! enjoy… and let me know what you want more of… in the comments! june 19, 2019 some resources for you (#9) i’m too lazy too busy editing to put a lot of time into blogging these days. but you are still on my mind… and that is why i have compiled this list of resources for you. 🙂 i am doing this from time to time. i’ve already published: – some resources for you (#1) – some resources for you (#2) – some resources for you (#3) – some resources for you (#4) – some resources for you (#5) – some resources for you (#6) – some resources for you (#7) – some resources for you (#8) resources for bloggers how to write click-worthy email subject lines (tips, tools, and templates) resources for freelancers freelance writing jobs: 300+ websites that pay resources for authors how authors can sell more books resources for writers of all kinds! 13 common, clunky sentence structures that weaken your writing resources for business owners (solopreneurs and entrepreneurs) how to ditch your 9-5 grind and join the ranks of solopreneurs additional resources (for success) 10 tools to make every day more productive free stuff all of these resources are fantastic! plus… as my way of thanking you for being a reader of wording well, i want to give you some free stuff. find my freebies on my resource kit page! plus, there are many more (and i mean many more) resources for writers, authors, and freelancers) here as well! enjoy… and let me know what you want more of… in the comments! 1 2 3 … 57 » wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy