skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides the blog a seattle germaphobe in the time of coronavirus posted on mar 12, 2020 posted in: personal essay, random musings my city feels strangely still right now. i normally hear the sounds from the elementary school nearby, or people walking their dogs, the swish of cars driving by on the street. but it’s oddly quiet at the moment, the only sound the squawking from a few irritable crows whose life mission is to make sure… keep reading i tried making mike bloomberg’s meatball recipe and it doesn’t make sense posted on feb 24, 2020 posted in: food, personal essay, random musings harvey weinstein was found guilty today on some (but not all) of the charges brought against him by the state of new york. and i find this unbelievable, not because i believed in his innocence in any measure, but because i believe in the ability – as old as history and time itself – of… keep reading anti-valentine’s day and ugghhh we’re cute posted on feb 14, 2020 posted in: random musings, steal this idea people are always surprised when i tell them rand and i don’t really celebrate valentine’s day. i mean, we used to. but dear lord, it was always so, so much, and it always felt a little weird and uncomfortable and forced, even if it lead to some of my favorite photos, ever: … keep reading why aren’t you blogging, and other hard questions posted on feb 13, 2020 posted in: random musings, writing every now and then i get a well-meaning email or facebook message from a reader. i’ve noticed, they will write, and i can practically feel the gentle trepidation as they do so, that you seem to have fallen off the planet and are living the life of a hermit. and not even a *good* hermit? like, you… keep reading i write about mice but actually anxiety. posted on sep 3, 2019 posted in: life at home, nothing to do with travel, random musings it’s funny, the things that finally set you off. like, i’ve always presumed that i was a relatively hinged person, but here i am, utterly unhinged. for some of you, this will be unsurprising. some of you will be thinking, “geraldine, you were never hinged. you have fewer hinges than a sliding door.” and i… keep reading are men abused online more than women? posted on aug 28, 2019 posted in: nothing to do with travel (tw: this post discusses online abuse and includes screencaps and discussion of graphic, misogynistic, homophobic, and generally just horrifying language.) i’ve been studying online harassment for a while now. i find myself a case study more often than i would like, and when i present on the topic, my slides are often screencaps of abusive… keep reading 40 things for his 40th birthday posted on jul 30, 2019 posted in: life at home, loving the entrepreneur, nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings my husband turned 40 at the beginning of july. i wanted a bacchanalian celebration, cake and lights and streamers and swarms of people, forgetting entirely that this milestone wasn’t about me. the realization would hit me eventually, before too much planning had occurred: he didn’t want a big to-do. nor did he want, he insisted,… keep reading between two knees at the osf posted on jul 27, 2019 posted in: attractions, festivals, shows above photo: between two knees (2019): wotko long, rachel crowl, april ortiz, derek garza, shaun taylor-corbett. photo by jenny graham. minutes before the curtain rose on the night we saw between two knees, my husband rand received a text from our friend shaun, who is in the show. “sorry in advance,” shaun wrote,… keep reading my memoir is out in paperback today. posted on jul 16, 2019 posted in: book it has been two years since my memoir came out, and the reality of that dream coming true has both sunk in and managed to become surreal. sometimes, i need a reminder that it all actually happened. and then someone will mention it to me, or email me to tell me that they just finished… keep reading posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 161 next page about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.