toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog april 10, 2019 some resources for you (#6) i’m too lazy too busy editing to put a lot of time into blogging these days. but you are still on my mind… and that is why i have compiled this list of resources for you. 🙂 i am doing this from time to time. i’ve already published: – some resources for you (#1) – some resources for you (#2) – some resources for you (#3) – some resources for you (#4) – some resources for you (#5) for bloggers how to make money blogging – for real! for freelancers how to maximize your marketing power as a budding freelance writer for authors self-care for authors while writing and launching a self-published book for writers of all kinds! how to declutter your writing ideas and finish more projects for business owners (solopreneurs and entrepreneurs) 60 blog post ideas for entrepreneurs, marketers, and businesses additional resources (for success) 16 quick tips to enhance your mindset, focus, and productivity free stuff all of these resources are fantastic! plus… as my way of thanking you for being a reader of wording well, i want to give you some free stuff. find my freebies on my resource kit page! plus, there are many more (and i mean many more) resources for writers, authors, and freelancers) here as well! enjoy… and let me know what you want more of… in the comments! march 9, 2019 how to use content upgrades to build your email list (+ a tutorial!) content upgrades. lead magnets. you’ve heard the terminology, but what do these things mean? today, i am going to share with you everything you need to know about content upgrades… including what they are (with samples), who uses them, where to put them, how to create them, and which plugins you can use for them. i’m also going to give you a step-by-step tutorial on how to use content upgrades pro on your website! i’m an affiliate for this product and so all links to this plugin in this post are affiliate links. this means i will receive a small commission if you decide to buy this product. i use this product on wording well, and i love it! article contents the contents of this blog post include: what is a content upgrade? samples of content upgrades who uses content upgrades? where should you put them? how to create a content upgrade (+ some tools to use) which plugins are the best to use for content upgrades? how to use content upgrades pro on your site what is a content upgrade? content upgrades are used in blog posts to help grow your email list. a content upgrade is also called a lead magnet (in the marketing world) and is simply some type of bonus content that you give to your readers (or site visitors) in exchange for their email address. “what is an evergreen lead magnet?” an evergreen lead magnet is a content upgrade is highly effective because it offers immediate value, can be used again and again, and will always be useful because it can be updated to ensure it’s the best and most up-to-date resource it can be. evergreen content upgrades are really good to create because they allow you to use them in multiple posts. this solves the problem of not having to always create a new upgrade for each post! instead, all you have to do is copy and paste your “offer” into your new blog post! easy! samples of content upgrades a checklist a printable (which can be anything ranging from a checklist to a blog planner to a goals planner to a calendar, etc.) access to a recorded webinar or private video access to a private file or resource vault an infographic (read: the ultimate guide to infographics (includes 10 tools + 5 tutorials!)) a list of tools or resources related to your blog post topic a recording of written content a fill-in-the-blank sheet a pdf of your article a worksheet bonus content not included in the original article plus… other things i’ve not listed here! (i’m sure you can think of some kind of bonus to give away!) read more march 6, 2019 what do you do when someone steals your content? it happens. people steal content from you. they impersonate you. they re-post your content… and not always in a good way. sometimes they even pretend to be you. that’s the worst! when you become successful online, things like this are bound to happen! here is my true story about what happened to me in january and february 2019 and what i did about it. you can follow the same steps that i did, if something like this ever happens to you. i will also give you a few other tips on what else you can do, to both protect yourself and also what to watch out for… because dealing with this stuff is a real pain! in this article: 1: how i found out someone was stealing my stuff 2: what did i do? 3: the advice i received 4: filing with google 5: monitoring the site where the stolen content was found 6: more stolen content! 7: what do you do when someone steals your content? 8: other actions to do when find your content has been stolen 9: get dmca protected 10: discovering the stolen content was removed 111: stolen content is akin to plagiarism 12: let my experiences be a lesson to you 1: how i found out someone was stealing my stuff while replying to comments on my author site, i noticed that someone linked to me. how? i have things set up so that i must approve all comments and pingbacks. i saw the following pingback: naturally, i visited that page. when i checked out the article at http://find-jobs-online.info/diversify-your-self-as-a-freelancer-and-earn-extra.html, i was appalled to discover someone was impersonating me! i did not write that article! that person also stole a bunch of my images to use in that post! they really “looked” like they were me! however, the article was/is poorly written, and anyone who knows me knows that i don’t write like that! i was furious to make such a discovery! now, i know backlinks are important and i generally love it when i find out that people have linked to my sites. but getting them this way is not good! i also know that there are ways of finding out who owns a site (or, at least, who registered it or where it was registered). i’ve learned a thing or two in the last six years of blogging! (wink, wink) i also know that you can report sites and articles wherein your content is stolen. i wasn’t exactly sure how to do this, so i had to do some investigating and research. 2: what did i do? first, i dealt with my anger. i was outraged! i then took screenshots of the entire article (as proof). secondly, i decide to deal with the site owner directly and see if i could resolve the problem. read more january 27, 2019 mental health + entrepreneurship = success! mental health issues are often not talked about, especially among entrepreneurs. everyone likes to pretend they are just fine, even when they are not. i used to be this way. now, i have the courage to admit that i’ve suffered from severe depression and even tried to kill myself. but i have also learned many coping strategies over the years, including how to achieve entrepreneurial excellence. i have also learned that entrepreneurship is a better choice for people with mental health issues (as opposed to working for someone else). today, we’ll look at why this is. is entrepreneurship right for you? so, you have mental health issues. but, you also want to become an entrepreneur. you have this big plan, but you are also scared because you don’t know if you can handle it, emotionally or mentally. this is a common feeling for people who suffer from mental health challenges. sometimes, mental health issues can make working for others quite difficult, especially if they do not understand what you have to face on a daily basis. sometimes, it is hard for those who have never faced mental health problems to truly understand what someone who has them actually experience. according to the dark side of entrepreneurship, rates of depression, adhd, bipolar disorder, anxiety, and addiction are reportedly much higher among entrepreneurs than the general population. part of that comes through the stress of entrepreneurship, but also reflects the fact that, for many, working for themselves while having mental health issues is just more desirable. why? if you battle mental health issues, (1) creating your own business opportunity, (2) being your own boss, and (3) being able to customize a work schedule that suits your needs might be the perfect answer for you. (1) when you create your own business you have greater control and, to a degree, are able to customize your work experience. (2) not having to deal with managers or bosses that don’t understand mental illness can be freeing. you know what you can handle. you know what you need to do to be healthy. they don’t. the more control you have over your situation, the better you can work to take care of yourself. this is a perfect reason to be your own boss. (3) also, there is the satisfaction of being able to do something you love. you can follow your passion when you become an entrepreneur. doing so might be what you need to help you get through some of the days that might seem hopeless when you are working for someone else doing something you aren’t too excited about. are there downsides to being an entrepreneur? of course, there are cons to becoming your own boss, and these have to be considered before diving in with both feet. starting your own business can be quite stressful. if you suffer from anxiety, mood swings, anger issues, or any other number of problems, they can be aggravated by the stress. a lot can ride on your shoulders when you are running your own business, and there isn’t always a guarantee that, in the end, it will all work out. it can be a large responsibility to take on and that can lead to more stress! an article in forbes’ magazine titled 7 reasons entrepreneurs are particularly vulnerable to mental health challenges mentions some of the issues that should be considered, but don’t necessarily have to be a barrier to success. where to find support and online therapists one resource you can turn to for information on how to navigate through symptoms of mental illness and improve your chances of success is the advice page at betterhelp. you may also want to contact betterhelp about setting up an online therapist that you can communicate with from the comfort of your home at convenient times that can fit right into your schedule. you can turn to your friends and family, of course, to help you with your day-to-day problems. in my case, however, my family does not always support me emotionally, so i have learned to do the 5 things mentioned in that article to help me cope. i have also sought counseling, which helped me deal with my mental health issues. i did it and you can do it, too! most people know i’m an author and a freelance writer. i reap many benefits from being an editor, too. i also wrote from nope to hope, i created this successful blog, and i built up a business that i am proud of. it hasn’t been easy, but i did it… despite depression, addiction, and other mental health challenges. i am proof that it can be done and that it can be a positive, fulfilling experience. my business gives me a sense of pride and purpose. i’m also happier than i have ever been! indeed, starting and running your own business can be tremendously satisfying. it isn’t for everyone, but it might be exactly what you need. if this is the direction you choose, go into knowing that you, too, can be successful! mental health + entrepreneurship = success! this is true for me, and it can be true for you, too! january 16, 2019 some resources for you (#5) i’m too lazy too busy editing to put a lot of time into blogging these days. but you are still on my mind… and that is why i have compiled this list of resources for you. 🙂 i am doing this from time to time. i’ve already published: – some resources for you (#1) – some resources for you (#2) – some resources for you (#3) – some resources for you (#4) for bloggers how to write a blog post – the ultimate guide for freelancers how to cold-pitch freelance writing clients — this one is from leaving work behind and it outlines the three main steps to cold-pitching. for authors how to market a book using facebook for writers of all kinds! 25 writing tips from famous writers for business owners (solopreneurs and entrepreneurs) how to achieve entrepreneurial excellence – 3 ways additional resources (for success) how to achieve a good work-life balance (+ a free workbook/planner) free stuff all of these resources are fantastic! plus… as my way of thanking you for being a reader of wording well, i want to give you some free stuff. find my freebies on my resource kit page! plus, there are many more (and i mean many more) resources for writers, authors, and freelancers) here as well! enjoy… and let me know what you want more of… in the comments! « 1 2 3 4 5 … 57 » wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy