skip to main content about contact press people opportunities issues free speech privacy creativity and innovation transparency international security our work deeplinks blog press releases events legal cases whitepapers take action action center electronic frontier alliance volunteer tools privacy badger https everywhere surveillance self-defense certbot panopticlick donate donate to eff shop other ways to give membership faq search form search email updates on news, actions, and events in your area. join eff lists copyright (cc by) trademark privacy policy thanks electronic frontier foundation donate electronic frontier foundation about contact press people opportunities issues free speech privacy creativity and innovation transparency international security our work deeplinks blog press releases events legal cases whitepapers take action action center electronic frontier alliance volunteer tools privacy badger https everywhere surveillance self-defense certbot panopticlick donate donate to eff shop other ways to give membership faq search form search bloggers' rights bloggers' rights one of eff's goals is to give you a basic roadmap to the legal issues you may confront as a blogger to let you know you have rights and to encourage you to blog freely with the knowledge that your legitimate speech is protected. to that end we have created the legal guide for bloggers a collection of blogger-specific faqs addressing everything from fair use to defamation law to workplace whistle-blowing. in addition eff continues to battle for bloggers' rights in the courtroom: bloggers can be journalists (and journalists can be bloggers). we're battling for legal and institutional recognition that if you engage in journalism you're a journalist with all of the attendant rights privileges and protections. (see apple v. does.) bloggers are entitled to free speech. we're working to shield you from frivolous or abusive threats and lawsuits. internet bullies shouldn't use copyright libel or other claims to chill your legitimate speech. (see opg v. diebold.) bloggers have the right to political speech. we're working with a number of other public-interest organizations to ensure that the federal election commission (fec) doesn't gag bloggers' election-related speech. we argue that the fec should adopt a presumption against the regulation of election-related speech by individuals on the internet and interpret the existing media exemption to apply to online media outlets that provide news reporting and commentary regarding an election -- including blogs. (see our joint comments to the fec [pdf 332k].) bloggers have the right to stay anonymous. we're continuing our battle to protect and preserve your constitutional right to anonymous speech online including providing a guide to help you with strategies for keeping your identity private when you blog. (see how to blog safely (about work or anything else).) bloggers have freedom from liability for hosting speech the same way other web hosts do. we're working to strengthen section 230 liability protections under the communications decency act (cda) while spreading the word that bloggers are entitled to them. (see barrett v. rosenthal.) if you'd like to spread the word about our work consider adding an eff bloggers' rights badge to your blog or website. protect digital privacy and free expression. eff's public interest legal work, activism, and software development preserve fundamental rights. protect digital privacy and free expression. eff's public interest legal work, activism, and software development preserve fundamental rights. donate to eff eff related content: bloggers' rights filter by type - any -deeplinks blogdocumenteventlegal casepress releasewhitepaper deeplinks blog by jillian c. york | march 25, 2020 the right to anonymity is vital to free expression: now and always “there are myriad reasons why individuals may wish to use a name other than the one they were born with. they may be concerned about threats to their lives or livelihoods, or they may risk political or economic retribution. they may wish to prevent discrimination or they may use a... read more about the right to anonymity is vital to free expression: now and always deeplinks blog by naomi gilens | january 31, 2020 lawsuit in india seeks to shut down access to u.s. journalism website computer security researchers and journalists play a critical role in uncovering flaws in software and information systems. their research and reporting allows users to protect themselves, and vendors to repair their products before attackers can exploit security flaws. but all too often, corporations and governments try to silence reporters, and... read more about lawsuit in india seeks to shut down access to u.s. journalism website document | january 24, 2020 woodhull appeals court ruling read more about woodhull appeals court ruling press release | september 18, 2019 hearing friday: plaintiffs challenging fosta ask court to reinstate lawsuit seeking to block its enforcement washington d.c.—on friday, sept. 20, at 9:30 am, attorneys for five plaintiffs suing the government to block enforcement of fosta will ask a federal appeals court to reverse a judge’s decision to dismiss the case.the plaintiffs—woodhull freedom foundation, the internet archive, human rights watch, and individuals alex andrews and... read more about hearing friday: plaintiffs challenging fosta ask court to reinstate lawsuit seeking to block its enforcement deeplinks blog by david greene, kurt opsahl | may 24, 2019 the government’s indictment of julian assange poses a clear and present danger to journalism, the freedom of the press, and freedom of speech the century-old tradition that the espionage act not be used against journalistic activities has now been broken. seventeen new charges were filed yesterday against wikileaks founder julian assange. these new charges make clear that he is being prosecuted for basic journalistic tasks, including being openly available to receive... read more about the government’s indictment of julian assange poses a clear and present danger to journalism, the freedom of the press, and freedom of speech pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » back to top follow eff: twitter facebook instagram youtube flicker rss contact general legal security membership press about calendar volunteer victories history internships jobs staff issues free speech privacy creativity & innovation transparency international security updates blog events press releases whitepapers press press contact donate join or renew membership online one-time donation online shop other ways to give copyright (cc by) trademark privacy policy thanks javascript license information