skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides the blog american couple returns roman artifact; italians wonder what the hell to do with it. posted on may 7, 2009 posted in: lost in translation, wtf 25 years ago, an american couple traveling in italy snatched up a hunk of some ruins as a souvenir, and wracked with guilt, returned it decades later. “we appreciate the gesture,” italian police were quoted as saying. “but wtf. it’s a rock. it’s not like we even realized it was gone.”* keep reading ja, voll? nein! posted on apr 28, 2009 posted in: lost in translation last week, the hubby and i found ourselves in munich for national beer day (insert joke here about how every day is national beer day in bavaria). the hubby had a beer, and i had johannisbeer juice, which we determined, after a lengthy discussion that nearly involved diagrams, to be currant juice (clearly, i am… keep reading top ten cures for a vacation hangover posted on apr 27, 2009 posted in: advice, top ten the hubby and i got back from a week-long trip to germany yesterday, and i’m in the throes of a nasty vacation hangover. (not the worst one i’ve ever had, thankfully. the time i was 16 and returned from a three-week trip to europe, heartbroken and so deliriously tired that all i could do was… keep reading posts navigation previous page page 1 … page 160 page 161 about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.