start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events search start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events join our facebook community start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events search categoryblogging tools and services 28th of march 2018 laney galligan 0 comments how to use the wordpress wysiwyg toolbar to format your blog posts like a pro are you using wordpress’ formatting features to their fullest? i expect you already know the basics of formatting your blog posts to make them more readable. (if you’re just getting started, you might want to check out 4 wordpress formatting tips to make your posts more readable for an overview of ...more blogging tools and services 8th of march 2018 darren rowse 0 comments which is the best blog hosting solution? sometimes i feel like i’m asked this question more often than people google it. if you have a self-hosted website (or are about to start one), you’ll probably want to know the answer too: which is the best blog hosting solution? there are plenty of answers to this question. check out ...more blogging tools and services 1st of march 2018 darren rowse 0 comments when diy blogging isn’t for you: 5 alternatives to self-hosted wordpress here on problogger, we’ve always recommended self-hosted wordpress (aka wordpress.org) as the very best platform for blogging. and with good reason. many of the world’s largest blogs and websites run on self-hosted wordpress. thousands of plugins and themes are available – many for free, although there are lots of premium ...more blogging tools and services 29th of january 2018 darren rowse 0 comments 233: tools we’re using to get more subscribers and customers in 2018 the tools we’re using in 2018 to get more subscribers and customers in today’s episode, i want to introduce you to a thrive – a suite of wordpress plugin tools we’ve been using on our blogs for the past six months or so that we’re really excited about. today’s show is brought ...more blogging tools and services 15th of september 2017 shayne tilley 0 comments blog metrics: why you need to stop focusing on ‘vanity’ stats in a recent problogger mastermind, i shared a slide that seemed to hit a nerve with the group. while having lots of page views, sessions, fans, followers and even email subscribers may feel good, they don’t actually tell you anything about the health of your blog. i included this in ...more blogging tools and services 13th of september 2017 darren rowse 0 comments comparing email service providers for bloggers this is the third post in our email newsletter series. one major sticking point for most bloggers who are setting up a newsletter is deciding what email service to use. there are lots of different, competing, options out there, and there’s no one perfect solution. just in case you were thinking ...more blogging tools and services 21st of august 2017 darren rowse 0 comments 207: smartphone and tablet apps for bloggers blogger apps for smartphone and tablet today, i want to take you on a tour of my iphone and ipad, and talk about the apps i use most in my blogging and online business activities. one of the biggest changes that has happened in my blogging since i began back ...more blogging tools and services 26th of june 2017 darren rowse 0 comments 199: a cool tool to create professional facebook live videos a tool to create high quality live video on facebook this episode is presented by the success incubator – a brand new event i’m co-hosting this year for problogger readers and online entrepreneurs. the event is happening in dallas texas on 24-25 october, and i’m so excited to announce that ...more blogging tools and services 12th of june 2017 darren rowse 0 comments 197: a cool tool for creating viral videos for facebook in 15 minutes a free tool to create videos for your facebook page this episode is presented by the success incubator – a brand new event i’m co-hosting this year for problogger readers and online entrepreneurs. today i’m announcing 3 great speakers – pat flynn, kim garst and andrea vahl (more details here). ...more blogging tools and services 1 2 3 … 61 next join our newsletter website subscribe follow us i need help to... start a blog create content find readers build community make money blogging be productive understand technology get work every week we'll send you blogging advice, tips and in-depth tutorials join our community of 300,000+ bloggers! name name website subscribe recently at the job board email marketer - reach a big audience and make a positive impact expert tech blog writer finance or seo specialist writer wanted fitness & lifestyle bloggers wanted! [european] content writer for adult toy website problogger top articles how to start a blog how to create great blog content how to find readers for your blog 7 strategies to build community on your blog how to make money blogging 5 ways to make your blogging life easier top resources 31 days to build a better blog problogger’s guide to your first week of blogging problogger’s guide to blogging for your business blog wise: how to do more with less the blogger’s guide to online marketing recommended blogging resources about blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses speaking privacy terms contact copyright © 2020 problogger.com · all rights reserved a practical podcast… to help you build a better blog the problogger podcast a practical podcast…