skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visited 2018 is in the books and (as i say every year), this year has been yet for my personal growth, goals and travels. in 2018, deanna and i stepped foot on our 7th continent together (africa!). we made bangkok our new home base and we successfully held our first group trip. i cracked both […] read more… posted in travel90 comments iran is not what you think!! i just completed a 14 day trip around persia with g adventures, and much to my surprise, iran is not (at all) what i thought it’d be like! contrary to popular belief, iran is extremely safe, with the most friendly people i’ve ever met who went out of their way to make sure i was […] read more… posted in travel289 comments join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18) hi friends! we’re beyond excited to launch our very first group trip to thailand! deanna and i will be hosting an 8 day trip from november 10-18th, 2018 to the northern parts of thailand from chiang mai to bangkok! **this is not a free trip, it’s a paid trip. prices and details listed below** we […] read more… posted in travel63 comments best places to visit in summer 2018 every year, my friends at allianz travel insurance conduct a survey of the most popular destinations for americans to visit in the summer months. the way that allianz calculates these destinations is by reviewing customers’ trips planned from may 28 to sept 3, 2018 — and each trip is between 5 and 8 days long. as […] read more… posted in travel65 comments highlights from a 6 day road trip in florida i just wrapped up an incredible, action-packed road trip to florida over the last 6 days in collaboration with visit florida. it was my first time back in the sunshine state since 2007, so it was great to be here with fresh eyes and new perspectives. my girlfriend and i flew into fort myers, and […] read more… posted in travel35 comments ultimate guide to teaching english in korea *this article is 25-30 minute read, but it will give you everything you need to know about teaching english in south korea and adjusting to korean life. i spent several weeks writing this and i’m confident that it has the best information online. i taught english in south korea for 18 months – from august 2013 to february […] read more… posted in blog in korea37 comments a detailed look inside my travel insurance policy i’ve already told you how important it is to get travel insurance, but as i am planning my upcoming travels for 2018 (which include iran, turkmenistan, papua new guinea, solomon islands, namibia, etc) — i thought it would be a good time to break down my insurance plan step by step and let you know […] read more… posted in travel11 comments 2017 travel highlights and just like that, another year is gone in the blink of an eye. i don’t know what’s crazier – the fact that we are now 2 years away from 2020, or that this is my 4th yearly round up (i’ve been blogging for four years already?!) if you’d like to see my travel highlights […] read more… posted in travel16 comments allianz’s travel smart app – essential to have on the road some of you may already know the importance of using travel insurance (which i’ve talked about before), while others may not. having travel insurance (whether you are a first-time traveler or highly experienced) should be the first thing you do before considering a trip – before booking a flight, before looking at hotels and […] read more… posted in travel4 comments 8 things i love about jeju island, south korea as many of you know, i lived and taught english in south korea for 2 years. it’s where i got started with travel blogging as a career, which has led me into social media and making travel videos. living in korea opened my mind to the wonderful world of asia, where i have now been […] read more… posted in travel18 comments posts navigation older posts categories blog in korea blogging budgeting golf popular snapchat stories social stories tips travel videos recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.