project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure crafts kids craft ideas photo bookmark diy gift idea how to make a personalized photo bookmark diy using your photos “reading gives us someplace to go when we have to stay where we are.” –mason cooley in a world full of technology like digital music, social media, and cell phones i think i will always love the feel of a physical book versus a ... continue reading... 2 comments crafts 12 spring craft ideas for adults a dozen spring craft ideas for adults spring is here! i’m ready! i thought i’d put together a list of 12 spring craft ideas for adults. some are fun spring gifts, home décor, and easter ideas. let's start with some gift ideas. here we go! diy spring gift ideas diy scented teacup ... continue reading... 2 comments special occasions wine of the month gift basket idea wine of the month gift basket idea with free printable every softball season, our league throws a silent auction fund raiser. each softball team is responsible for donating a basket. this year we had each parent donate their favorite bottle of wine and i came up with this wine of the month gift ... continue reading... leave a comment diy party ideas diy seashell balloon art diy seashell balloon art video instructions for mermaid party decorations talk about diy inspiration! when i saw lilly jimenez, balloon artist on the show making it, i couldn’t be more inspired. her balloon creations are amazing! with my 3-year old’s birthday coming up, i just had to try to make my ... continue reading... leave a comment diy party ideas fancy nancy party ideas budget friendly fancy nancy party ideas i am excited to share that i have partnered up with alyssa hunter from alyssa hunter photography to share some fun party ideas that she has photographed. today, she is sharing photos from a 3rd birthday tea party and i thought i’d share some fancy nancy ... continue reading... leave a comment crafts holidays diy wood slice bunnies diy wood slice bunnies for your easter décor i didn’t come up with the original idea for these diy wood slice bunnies. rather, i saw a version on google images but could not find (for the life of me) the source of who came up with the idea. i just thought they were so adorable that i wanted to ... continue reading... 1 comment go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 265 go to next page » primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas diy costume beard and mustache diy accordion photo card diy recycled milk jug flowers copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more