skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about blogging in this section you will find all my articles related to running and starting a blog. if you are looking for some examples of successful blogs, need to learn more about different blogging sites, or simply ask “what is a blog?” you have found the right place. i have also written lots of articles on getting more traffic to your blog, such as growing your following on different social networks or getting more blog subscribers. if you are looking for more information on wordpress then check out my wordpress guides. how to write a blog post – a guide for new & experienced bloggers by jamie we’ve all been there. you have finally come up with an exciting idea for your first blog post. so, you sit down to write. but then… nothing happens. despite all of the ideas you have swirling in your head, you just can’t bring yourself to put those thoughts into a readable format that your audience … read morehow to write a blog post – a guide for new & experienced bloggers categories blogging how to start a vlog – step by step guide for 2020 by jamie youtube is not just a site for watching funny viral videos anymore. in the 15 years since the platform launched, it has become a digital powerhouse. it’s the second most visited website on the internet and is the second most popular search engine. youtube only comes second to google. vlogging, or video blogging, is a … read morehow to start a vlog – step by step guide for 2020 categories blogging best cheap web hosting 2020 – for blog owners on a budget by jamie finding a high-quality cheap web hosting provider isn’t easy. every website will have different requirements from a host. plus, you have to compare all the features of a hosting company, all while looking for the best deal possible. this can be a lot to sort through, especially if this is your first time purchasing hosting, … read morebest cheap web hosting 2020 – for blog owners on a budget categories blogging blogging tips for newbie bloggers – 2020 by jamie creating a successful blog is not as easy as it may seem. while many people think that bloggers are simply lifestyle gurus who write a few posts a week, there’s actually a lot of work going on behind the scenes. running a successful blog requires a lot of patience and big creative commitment. you also … read moreblogging tips for newbie bloggers – 2020 categories blogging what is a domain name and how do they work? by megan jones are you thinking of setting up your own website or starting a blog but feeling a bit daunted by the prospect? for those new to web design, there is a lot to learn and think about – but don’t worry! in this article, we cover the first step of any web project – the domain … read morewhat is a domain name and how do they work? categories blogging domain valuation guide – how get a true valuation of your domain name by jamie since the early days of the internet, successful domain names have held far more value than what most people think. a thriving domain is like a piece of digital real estate. if you own a sought-after piece of internet property, there may be people who are willing to shell out a significant amount of money … read moredomain valuation guide – how get a true valuation of your domain name categories blogging best food & cooking blogs – a run down of the best foodie related blogs in 2020 by jamie one of the best ways to connect with other people is through food. everyone loves to eat and experience new culinary adventures. food blogs have given budding chefs, homemakers, and general enthusiasts the opportunity to make their cuisine available to foodies around the world. but it’s not just about the good eats. sharing a recipe … read morebest food & cooking blogs – a run down of the best foodie related blogs in 2020 categories blogging ask jamie anything by jamie i’m a massive fan of “ask me anything” pages on reddit. it’s an opportunity to really get some fascinating insights from the minds of people that operate within the subject matter you find interesting. so with that i would open up my mind of blogging/affiliate information and set up this page “ask jamie anything”. this … read moreask jamie anything categories blogging best alternatives to google url shortener 2020 by jamie if you’ve been using goo.gl to shorten links for your site then you might be sad to hear that google is ending support for its url shortener on march 30, 2019. however, there’s no need to fret over long hyperlinks, url shorteners have been around for many years, and there are plenty of other tools … read morebest alternatives to google url shortener 2020 categories blogging 15 best grammar checking tools (free & paid) by jamie online grammar and punctuation checkers are helpful tools to help you come across more professionally with your writing. whether you’re starting a blog, writing a professional email, blog post, long-form article, or e-book, it’s important to avoid spelling errors, grammatical errors and silly mistakes. there are now quite a few resources that can help you … read more15 best grammar checking tools (free & paid) categories blogging how to check the history of a domain name by jamie the first computers started connecting to one another through wide area networks in the 1960s. however, it took several years before the internet exploded in 1990. the world wide web was created a year later, which also gave way to commercial service providers to begin operating. the registration of domain names became an official part … read morehow to check the history of a domain name categories blogging the most popular blog types – 2020 edition by jamie so, you want to start a blog but don’t know what to blog about. well in this guide i will show you all of the most popular types of blogs that are out there on the internet. blogging is something that can be very rewarding if you are truly committed to it and absolutely love … read morethe most popular blog types – 2020 edition categories blogging a guide on how to use gravatar for your blog or website – 2020 by jamie for many people, gravatars belong to a distant era of the internet when only a fortunate few were just beginning to explore what the digital realm had to offer. but gravatars have remained surprisingly resilient as they continue to play an important role in online communication. indeed, gravatars are used more than eight billion times … read morea guide on how to use gravatar for your blog or website – 2020 categories blogging how to write an effective blog posts that get you traffic by jamie blogs are a hugely important part of the online atmosphere. while they might have originally started as simple personal journals, they’ve become something more. they’re a great way to establish a personal brand and to make a business seem more relevant to consumers. blogs are still, however, difficult for many to write. when presented with … read morehow to write an effective blog posts that get you traffic categories blogging 49 blog & content ideas for when you have a mental block by jamie if you want your blog to be popular and get loads of free traffic from google & social networks, it’s essential to create a steady stream of interesting and compelling blog posts. doing this week after week, however, can seem like a challenge. many bloggers start off with boundless enthusiasm but then feel like they … read more49 blog & content ideas for when you have a mental block categories blogging post navigation older posts 1 2 next → best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub