home blog blog archive podcast giveaways about contact search home blog blog archive podcast giveaways about contact search independent commentary about gaming, movies and popular culture learning how to live stream part 2 march 26, 2020 / roger edwards it’s been a year since i wrote my last post about “learning to live stream”. i think that should give you a very clear indication of how well i’ve progressed. i mainly stopped streaming after a few experiments last march because of the time requirement involved. the only window of opportunity i had “go live” was from between 9:00pm and midnight. that would have meant cutting into time i spend with mrs p. plus, due to health reasons, she often goes to bed before me. and as i use the spare bedroom as an office, my constant babble would have kept her awake. so this is yet another project that got shelved. however, a year later i find myself with a lot more time on my hands due to the current “global situation”. so today i fired up slobs once again and tried to get back on the horse. as with my previous experience, there’s a lot of fine tuning to be done if you want to live stream to any standard. so this latest outing was mainly a technical test to determine what needs to be changed in my current set up. read more comment 0 likes categories / learning how to, live stream, part 2, gaming, technology get ready for blapril 2020 march 24, 2020 / roger edwards apparently, i’m not the only one who thinks that all this spare time that many of us now have, can be put to good use. belghast over at tales of the aggronaut, has brought forward his yearly blogging and content creation festival blaugust and rechristened it blapril. as the name indicates, this event will now run throughout april. blapril is primarily a festival of blogging (although it offers much that is relevant to other types of content creation) designed to bring together and encourage new or lapsed bloggers. it is also an ideal opportunity for existing writers to renew their motivation and up their game. the event provides a means to share information and offer valuable advice based upon personal experiences. blapril is about community, mutual support and sharing content. as i mentioned in a previous post, self isolation is in many ways the perfect time to take up blogging, podcasting, live streaming or generally creating some form of online content. if you’re looking for a gentle nudge to start any of these activities, blapril 2020 can provide it. read more comment 4 likes categories / blapril, blaugust, newbie blogger initiative, blogging covid-19 pandemic 2020 part 1 march 21, 2020 / roger edwards the covd-19 pandemic is an unprecedented global event and the way day to day life has changed so rapidly over the last few weeks is deeply unsettling. hence i’m writing this recurring post as a coping mechanism; a means to process what is happening and observe how society is reacting to the ongoing crisis. and first off, let me state that i’ve already spoken to two people today, who do not see a global pandemic as being a crisis. yes because we live in a post truth world where some people labour under the delusion that all opinions are of commensurate value, there are still people who “feel” that this is all an overwrought brouhaha. i suspect “crazy people watch” may become a major part of my writing. so where to begin exactly? well i guess the best thing to do is to explain what my personal situation is. read more 5 comments 3 likes categories / covid-19 pandemic 2020, part 1, editorial, social commentary thoughts on blogging part 12 march 20, 2020 / roger edwards due to the ongoing global pandemic, many people are now finding themselves working from home or having to stay in for health or childcare reasons. hence there has been a marked increase in online leisure activities. steam has been hit by a record number of concurrent users and netflix and amazon prime have both seen an increased demand upon their respective streaming services. if you’re not commuting then you are freeing up a substantial amount of hours each week. this potential abundance of “free time” along with a practical need to channel your energy into something to prevent yourself from going “stir crazy”, presents some interesting opportunities. many people who have previously expressed an interest in writing and content creation now have the leeway to do so. naturally, as a writing enthusiast and a long time blogger, i am happy to encourage such activities. read more comment 3 likes categories / blogging, thoughts on blogging, part 12, newbie blogger initiative completing the minas morgul expansion march 16, 2020 / roger edwards despite taking a short break out of pure frustration, i decided to grit my teeth and try to finish the minas morgul expansion for the lord of the rings online over the last few days. as i suspected, once you start questing in minas morgul itself, it all becomes very homogenous. the circles of the city are deliberately ponderous to navigate and the quests are padded out with generic filler content that requires you to kill multiple types of mobs. furthermore, minas morgul itself is a “lagfest” and you can often find yourself instantly in combat with a mob lurking immediately outside the door of the rangers camps. the density of the enemies means that you’re continuously pulling aggro when travelling form a to b. and you often find yourself rubberbanding and stuttering due to the poor build of the city. completing all of the various tiers of the city is a grueling task and upon completion you’re immediately sent to thuringwath which has many of the same problems. although some of the quest stories are well conceived, the realities of completing much of the content in minas morgul make it very much an uphill struggle. read more comment 1 likes categories / gaming, mmorpg, lotro, completing minas morgul classic movie themes: friday the 13th march 14, 2020 / roger edwards it was friday the 13th yesterday, so i thought it was about time that i added harry manfredini’s iconic score to the annals of classic movie themes. the 1980 slasher movie friday the 13th has become as legendary in the pantheon of cinematic horror history as john carpenter’s halloween. although there are marked differences between these two films, both use minimalist musical scores extremely effectively to punctuate the proceedings and embellish the overall atmosphere. however, manfedini did not want to provide viewers with obvious audio cues during scenes of building tension. he preferred to focus his score upon the activities of the franchise's iconic killer, jason voorhees, and hence have strong musical cues when he was on screen. this approach meant that he had to use a unique musical motif to denote potential tension, without diminishing its effect on the audience by excessive use of obvious and melodramatic cues. read more comment 1 likes categories / classic themes, movies, friday the 13th, harry manfredini waiting for the new middle-earth mmo march 12, 2020 / roger edwards in late 2018 it was announced that amazon game studios and leyou were collaborating on massively multiplayer online game for pc and consoles set in middle-earth. ongoing development is being handled by athlon games, a global developer and publisher of free-to-play console and pc games. the studio is a subsidiary of leyou technologies holdings limited. but beyond the fairly vague press releases that can be found on the athlon games website (the last was posted in july 2019), little detail has emerged about the project. there has been unsubstantiated rumours that the project may well tie-in with the forthcoming amazon prime tv show that is set in the second age of middle earth. however, there is little information at present in the public domain to fully substantiate this or any of the other ongoing speculation. hence, the entire situation raises some interesting questions and i’m sure like me, you have probably pondered some of them. here are just a few that have crossed my mind. read more comment 3 likes categories / gaming, mmorpg, lotro, athlon games, amazon prime, amazon game studios, the lord of the rings, middle-earth, leyou technologies old is new march 10, 2020 / roger edwards if you keep up with news in the mmorpg community, you’ll be aware that there has been a recent resurgence in “rogue server” offering emulation services for titles that have officially closed. city of heroes and star wars galaxies continue to sustain a player base and the level of interest clearly indicates that this is not just due to mere nostalgia. simply put these games maintain an audience because they are good. they’re well designed, engaging and rewarding to play. similarly, remastered games are proving to be both popular and commercially successful. resident evil 2 which was released last year has sold over 5 million copies and received critical acclaim. it currently has a rating of 91% on metacritic (for those who put stock in such things). pundits are already predicting that the remake of final fantasy vii will enjoy similar success. again when you analyse the reviews and critiques available online, you find that these remastered titles fare well due to their inherent quality. is this something newer games are lacking? read more 1 comment 5 likes categories / gaming, mmorpg, rpg, remastered games, old is new making your own fun march 08, 2020 / roger edwards i’ve yet to read a cogent definition of the term “emergent gameplay”, so it won’t feature in this post because i’m not sure if i fully grasp the concept. it seems to be a very elastic term. however, what i will say is that sometimes you run out of officially sanctioned tasks to do, when playing an mmo. you find yourself having completed all quests and missions, languishing at level cap with acceptable gear and kicking your virtual heels. it is at this point one of two things happens. you either find a means of keeping yourself engaged with the game, or you logout and find something else to play. too often have i done the latter. at present, i’m currently at the “what should i do now” stage both in the lord of the rings online and star trek online. this time rather than just temporarily abandoning these games, i intend to set myself some new goals and effectively make my own fun. it may or may not work. but at the least it will make for a couple of blog posts. read more comment 4 likes categories / gaming, mmorpg, lotro, star trek online, making your own fun scary stories to tell in the dark (2019) march 06, 2020 / roger edwards i’m not familiar with the original series of children’s books that scary stories to tell in the dark is based upon. from what i’ve read, it would appear that the film manages to channel the spirit (if you’ll pardon the pun) of the short stories by alvin schwartz, via the four supernatural vignettes that feature in the movies plot. furthermore, the illustrations featured in the original publications, by stephen gammell, have obviously influenced the visual effects and production design of the movie. however, despite being marketed as a portmanteau movie, scary stories to tell in the dark is much more than that. the framing story is more than just an arbitrary pair of cinematic bookends, designed to wrap around the proceedings. it is entwined into the central narrative and the four supernatural meta stories. rather than being a pure anthology movie, scary stories to tell in the dark is at its heart, a film about the nature and inherent power of stories themselves. read more comment 2 likes categories / movies, horror, scary stories, to tell in the dark countdown (2019) march 04, 2020 / roger edwards i believe that countdown received an unnecessarily hard time from the us critics. don’t get me wrong, i’m not saying that countdown is a masterpiece. it is not. but it is adequate. a phrase that a lot of people could do with reacquainting themselves with. i won’t retread old ground, as i’ve written about this subject before. i simply think that many people (and critics are people) just have unrealistic expectations when it comes to movies. not every film created should be, or can be a boundary pushing, cinematic masterpiece. once again i will invoke my cuisine analogy. there are michelin five star rated restaurants and then there are fast food franchises. both serve a purpose, cater for a specific market and can provide relative pleasure. therefore comparing “like for like” is a critical mistake and based upon a misplaced assumption of false equivalence. which brings me onto countdown. it is not the shining. nor is it plan 9 from outer space. but it is as i said, “adequate”. read more 2 comments 2 likes categories / movies, horror, countdown a month in gaming march 02, 2020 / roger edwards the problem i find with monthly gaming articles is that they tend to cover ground that i’ve already written about over the last 4 weeks in other blog posts, only in less detail. so here is the brief version of my gaming activities throughout february. i played through the entirety of the star trek online 10th anniversary event and received the new hybrid tier 6 ship. i enjoyed the new 2 part feature episode and have managed to maintain a schedule of doing “odds and sods” to keep myself busy. sto is currently my primary game. i’ve ground to a halt in the lord of the rings online, as soon as i start questing in minas morgul itself. it is simply too uninspiring and grindy an area. so i’ve focused on completing deeds for virtue experience and daily repeatable quests for anfalas scrolls of empowerment. due to constraints upon my schedule, i decided to temporarily stop my subscription to eso plus, as i simply do not have the time to invest in the elder scrolls online at present. eso is a good game and deserves attention when played. committing to multiple mmos at once is always a mistake. read more comment 4 likes categories / gaming, mmorpg, a month in gaming, february 2020, deathtrap dungeon, gang beasts the idiot box february 29, 2020 / roger edwards thoughts on tv shows and my current viewing habits. the last instalment of idiot box was back in september 2019. despite the christmas holidays and being very busy in general, i have managed to watch some good tv shows over the last five month. as ever, there has been plenty of quality material to choose from and i still have an ever growing “watchlist” for all the content i cannot currently accommodate. it is interesting to note that most of the shows i watch are via streaming services. out of the various titles i discuss in this post, only one was viewed via digital terrestrial network television. furthermore, we started watching an hour after the broadcast commenced, so that we could bypass the commercial breaks. watching anything in this fashion is my least favourite means of viewing television and because it happens so infrequently, it is quite jarring when it occurs. read more comment 2 likes categories / tv, the witcher, the crown, cobra, endeavour, unforgotten, star trek: picard, the idiot box star trek online: the admiralty system and farming dilithium february 27, 2020 / roger edwards dilithium is one of the major currencies that can be earned in the mmorpg star trek online. it is given as a reward for playing through story missions, task force operations (group pve content), duty officer assignments and other aspects of the game. dilithium is initially awarded as ore. the player then has to refine it to be able to spend it. furthermore, there is a cap of 8,000 dilithium ore refined per day. once refined, players can use dilithium to purchase various items and services ranging from new ships, as well as space and ground equipment. dilithium is also used in upgrading or re-engineering equipment. another benefit of dilithium is that it can be exchanged for zen, sto’s premium currency. although zen is primarily bought with real money, cryptic provides an in-game exchange service in which players can trade surplus dilithium for zen. the exchange rate can fluctuate and has steadily risen over the last ten years. yet despite this, dilithium continues to be a tangible and much desired resource. read more 1 comment 1 likes categories / gaming, mmorpg, star trek online, dilithium farming, the admiralty system “it’s only a game” and other perennial arguments february 25, 2020 / roger edwards irrespective of one’s opinion (or lack thereof) of the “popular” streamer and gamer ninja, one cannot deny that he has both influence and reach in certain quarters of the gaming community. hence when he makes a statement such as the one he did recently on twitter, it will inevitably become a talking point and cause ripples within the current gaming zeitgeist. “the phrase "it’s just a game" is such a weak mindset. you are okay with what happened, losing, imperfection of a craft. when you stop getting angry after losing, you’ve lost twice. there’s always something to learn, and always room for improvement, never settle”. for the sake of context, something that is sometimes lost due to the brevity of twitter, ninja is a professional gamer (among other things) so naturally this has a bearing upon his gaming worldview. however, even bearing this in mind, he hasn’t really said anything new. a robust rejection of the old “it’s only a game” statement is a hardy perennial argument in the gaming community. one that makes me roll my eyes and sigh heavily every time i see it, as it’s been addressed so many times. read more comment 6 likes categories / gaming, ninja, it's only a game deathtrap dungeon: the interactive adventure february 23, 2020 / roger edwards i watched welsh troll stream deathtrap dungeon: the interactive adventure this morning and was instantly hooked by this bold new adaptation of a much beloved adventure gamebook. so i subsequently purchased the game via steam for £7.99 which is a very reasonable price. despite being in early access, this game’s old school appeal is instantly apparent. based upon the 1984 book by ian livingstone, it perfectly captures the tone and spirit of source text. rather than providing a visual depiction of navigating a dungeon as previous video game adaptations have done, the developers, branching narrative, have opted for a minimalist narrative interpretation. hence we have actor eddie marsan sitting in a battered leather chair, telling the story of baron sukumvit's "trial of champions” and how those who undertake the challenge must traverse a dangerous subterranean labyrinth, from which none have ever returned. there are occasional illustrations to orientate the player but overall this is an intimate experience between the player and narrator, without an excess of visual distractions. it focuses on the power of imagination and storytelling. read more comment 3 likes categories / gaming, rpg, deathtrap dungeon, eddie marsan we need a new video games lexicon february 21, 2020 / roger edwards some video game related subjects are “hardy perennials”, to coin a gardening term. as are the blog posts, forum thread and subreddits that explore them. i read an article over at massively overpowered that posed the question “how essential are hardcore gamers to an mmo’s health?”. it wasn’t the actual main premise that got me thinking, but a minor side dispute that arose about the definition of a specific term. and that term was “hardcore”. it’s a phrase that’s been associated with video game culture for over two decades. yet there is no single, immutable dictionary definition as to what this term specifically means. which is odd for a word that is extremely commonplace in video games parlance. because of its elastic nature it leads a lot of scope for misinterpretation when used, be it deliberately or accidentally. so i made a self indulgent comment on the original post in which i paraphrased some dialogue from the 1986 movie, star trek iv: the voyage home. mccoy : how essential are “hardcore” gamers to an mmo’s health? spock : it is impossible to discuss the subject without a common frame-of-reference. read more 1 comment 2 likes categories / gaming, mmorpg, video games lexicon gaming ambassadors february 17, 2020 / roger edwards over four years ago, i wrote a blog post discussing the concept of “digital ambassadors” and how they can be an invaluable source of goodwill and promotion that compliments the traditional marketing departments and pr associated with leisure industries. a smart business sees the value of fans and the contribution they make in getting "the message" across. i recently sent in a question to the massively op podcast which specifically raised this issue with regard to the the mmorpg community. there was a time when key bloggers and podcasters became integral to the promotion of specific games and that they became an unofficial form of community management. in my question i also suggested that this has waned due to the rise of twitch tv and youtube and that the personalities that arise from these platforms are free agents who tend to follow the latest trends. they are not so tied to one specific community. justin and bree kindly addressed my question on the show and it made for a very interesting discussion. many of the points they raised had crossed my mind as well. read more comment 3 likes categories / gaming, mmorpg, gaming ambassadors eso: the problem with update 25 february 15, 2020 / roger edwards zenimax are allegedly addressing some major performance issues with the forthcoming update 25 for the elder scrolls online. if this latest patch improves loading times, the game’s overall performance and makes updating the client faster, then it will be well received by players. however, update 25 requires players to reinstall the entire game client due to technical reasons. furthermore, the patch is not going to be available prior to release on monday february 24th, so player’s cannot download the necessary files in advance. unfortunately, as soon as the patch server comes online, all players will have to reinstall the full eso client and wait accordingly. considering the disparity between internet connections in the us and europe, player experience will vary greatly. some will download the client in hours where others will have to simply leave their pc running and wait all day. considering the popularity of eso and the estimated size of its player base, i wouldn’t be surprised if there are queues or connectivity issues. read more comment 0 likes categories / gaming, elder scrolls online, update 25, mmorpg star trek online: keeping busy february 13, 2020 / roger edwards although the 10th anniversary event is still ongoing in star trek online, the overall excitement seems to be ebbing. i have played the new two part feature episode and it is indeed a thoroughly enjoyable fan service. cryptic hit exactly the right tone with this story and it has re-invigorated my enthusiasm for the star trek franchise as a whole. i have managed to organise things so that i can complete the omega molecule stabilisation anniversary event early each morning. this way i can complete this quick 15 minute task before i leave the house. i’m hoping to be able to claim the new ship early next week. however, overall i have little to do in the game at present. i did some housekeeping and deleted some unused alts, after asset stripping them of anything of note. i also cleaned up my personal bank and either “salvaged” or sold numerous items that weren’t currently being used. i have placed all my tier 5u ships into dry dock and rationalised my active tier 6 vessels. i am now setting myself some minor goals, as a means of keeping busy, until further new content is released. read more comment 1 likes categories / gaming, mmorpg, star trek online, keeping busy newer / older powered by squarespace