skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about blog traffic having set up your blog you are now on your journey to becoming a blogger, but just writing blog posts and pressing publish every week won’t allow you to make money from your blog without an audience. in this section of my website i have written about getting more blog traffic and growing your blog subscribers. in this section you will learn about posting on different social networks, social media management tools, growing an instagram audience, instagram scheduling tools, seo basics, setting up the yoast seo plugin and much much more. best social media management tools 2020 by jamie latest update: 16th march 2020 if you are on the internet, you are likely to have a social media account as well! that is how spectacular the rise has been with regard to the use of social networking platforms by users around the globe. whether it is individuals, professionals or businesses, most have a significant … read morebest social media management tools 2020 categories blog traffic, social the best internet search engines to use by jamie it’s almost impossible to remember a world before search engines existed. internet search engines enables you to make your blog or website visible to the world. whether you use your computer or phone, you can now pull up a browser or an app and find anything you want. each search engine uses its own algorithm, which … read morethe best internet search engines to use categories blog traffic 6 hootsuite alternatives that you should explore in 2020 by jamie the world has awakened to the power of social media, which explains the comprehensive use of social media by individuals and businesses alike in our day-to-day lives. whether it is from the comfort of our homes or offices or even on the go, most of us access social networking sites. and, this increased use of … read more6 hootsuite alternatives that you should explore in 2020 categories blog traffic best webinar software 2020 – all you need to host your own webcast by jamie do you want to host a great webinar? webinars are being hosted by just about every marketer these days, and for good reason. in fact, according to a recent webinar report, over 75 percent of marketers are using webinars for lead generation alone. webinar software is without a doubt one of the very best ways ... read morebest webinar software 2020 – all you need to host your own webcast categories blog traffic, content marketing, tech buying guides 65+ social networking sites you need to know about by jamie updated 5th june 2019human nature by default has been programmed to be socially active to a certain extent. some people are more active, while others are less so! however, people have always been looking for ways to connect and network with each other. and, in this age of digitisation, people have found ways to be … read more65+ social networking sites you need to know about categories blog traffic, social how to start your own podcast by jamie have you been thinking about starting your own podcast? if so then welcome to what i think is the most comprehensive and easy to use guide on creating your own podcast. there’s so many good reasons for starting a podcast. it’s a great way to grow your business, connect with other leaders in your space, … read morehow to start your own podcast categories blog traffic the best instagram tools to help you grow your followers & revenue in 2020 by jamie grow your audience with the help of some of these instagram tools ah, the world wide web. a place where, knowing your success can hinge on your social media presence, it is very easy to feel like a small fish in a big pond. if you are feeling overwhelmed at the prospect of building an … read morethe best instagram tools to help you grow your followers & revenue in 2020 categories social, blog traffic how to set up yoast seo – 2020 guide by jamie whenever you think about wordpress seo, yoast is one of the first names to come to mind. there are a few other plugins that have closed the gap on yoast’s dominance of the seo plugin market, which is great as for years yoast’s product has been falling by the wayside. but as it’s still the … read morehow to set up yoast seo – 2020 guide categories wordpress, blog traffic buffer vs. tweetdeck vs. hootsuite vs. social booster by jamie when last did a professional or a business counterpart ask you to share your mobile number to keep in touch? it has probably been a long while! the reason for this is that people now ask for your facebook or twitter profile or linkedin profile details to connect with you and add you to their … read morebuffer vs. tweetdeck vs. hootsuite vs. social booster categories blog traffic, social hootsuite review 2020 – is hootsuite a wise investment? by jamie the rise of social media has been nothing short of meteoric. it is common for individuals and businesses to have a presence (social media profile) on more than one social networking site. be it for personal profiles, celebrity profiles or business profiles, the social media objective is to have more likes and followers. and, to … read morehootsuite review 2020 – is hootsuite a wise investment? categories blog traffic a 14-point checklist for a seo-happy website launch by disha sharma “build it and they will come.” most people who begin a new blog or website start with the above idea. perhaps, you do too. maybe you’re thinking that once you launch your website or take your business online, it will open the floodgates to sales. it’s true: starting a new website is your first step … read morea 14-point checklist for a seo-happy website launch categories blog traffic 17 ways to find out how much traffic a website or blog gets by jamie there are numerous reasons you might want to find out how much traffic a website or a blog gets. perhaps you are interested in researching websites that compete in the same niche as a website you own. maybe you are considering starting a new blog, and you want to research the niche to see if … read more17 ways to find out how much traffic a website or blog gets categories blog traffic 5 ways bloggers can use semrush for more traffic and revenue by jamie semrush is a tool that is specific to finding profitable keywords. we’re living in a time now when seo, is at the forefront of a successful blog. semrush is a program many new and older bloggers are using to optimize their sites, create the content their audience wants and create a better experience for their … read more5 ways bloggers can use semrush for more traffic and revenue categories blog traffic the science of posting on social media infographic by jamie knowing when your audience is active on social media can give you a serious advantage when it comes to gaining the maximum exposure for your updates. however updating your different social profiles too frequently or not often enough can mean your messages may never be seen by your followers. after analyzing case studies carried out … read morethe science of posting on social media infographic categories blog traffic, social 2015 chinese social media statistics and trends infographic by jamie social media usage continues to grow across the world, and china is no exception. with an internet user population of 650 million (nearly twice the population of the entire u.s.) and censorship laws that prohibit those consumers from participating in the social networks that dominate the rest of the world in popularity, china did the … read more2015 chinese social media statistics and trends infographic categories blog traffic, social post navigation older posts 1 2 next → best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub