skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me an 18-day expedition of a lifetime to antarctica with hurtigruten today wraps up one of the most incredible trips of my life — an 18 day sailing expedition with hurtigruten which took myself and 400 passengers to montevideo, uruguay –> puerto madryn, argentina –> the falkland islands (3 islands) –> antarctica (3 days) –> cape horn, chile –> the chilean fjords and finally to puentas […] read more… posted in travel59 comments germany: 48 hours in cologne, stuttgart & dresden i just completed round 2 of an epic 6-day trip around 3 cities in germany in collaboration with germany tourism. last year, i went to hamburg, leipzig and berlin, and this time, i went to cologne, stuttgart and dresden. germany is one of my favorite countries in the world, and i am lucky enough to have […] read more… posted in travel5 comments the golf trip of lifetime to ireland & scotland before i write this post, i’d like to extend a huge thank you to all my sponsors and partners for this trip. this includes north & west coast links, tourism ireland, scot golf travel & luggage forward. i just finished the best golfing road trip of my life across ireland and scotland with my dad! […] read more… posted in blogging, golf, travel7 comments the highlights of tajikistan and uzbekistan last week, i completed an amazing week-long tour around tajikistan and uzbekistan in collaboration with g adventures. let’s begin with my 2 minute recap-video from the trip! the highlights of tajikistan & uzbekistan i just finished an incredible 7-day tour with g adventures across tajikistan and uzbekistan, and put together this video of my favorite […] read more… posted in travel14 comments why i want to visit syria when many people hear the word syria, especially americans, they cringe. they think negative thoughts. they think about war, turmoil and poverty. i know that the country has gone through rough times since 2011, but the worst of those days are over, and the country has been rebuilding at a tremendously fast rate. and that’s […] read more… posted in blogging1 comment 20 reasons why you need to visit the philippines the philippines is my favorite country on earth, and in my opinion, the most overlooked country in asia. let’s start with a video that explains why i love the philippines so much. this is why the philippines is my favorite country on earth for everyone who asks me “what’s your favorite country?”… my answer is […] read more… posted in travel10 comments why you should visit baku, azerbaijan i visited baku, azerbaijan in march 2017 and really enjoyed it. to be quite honest, i had low expectations going in, but the city caught me by surprise! in this blog post, i will tell you about my experiences, provide travel tips, and prepare you for what to expect if you are planning a trip […] read more… posted in popular, travel60 comments ultimate travel guide to hanoi, vietnam *looking for hotels in hanoi? click this link to find the hottest deals in the city. it’s an affiliate link, meaning i make a small commission at no additional cost to you. your booking helps keep me this website running 🙂 i love hanoi. it’s one of my favorite cities on earth, and it has a very […] read more… posted in popular, travel88 comments an amazing 6 day road trip around california last week, i went on a 6 day road trip around california in collaboration with visit california and i had an unbelievable time! in this blog post, i will talk about my experience during the trip as well as provide tips and recommendations along the way. let’s start off with this 2 minute video i made from […] read more… posted in travelleave a comment north korea is not what i expected, and here’s why… let’s begin with this 4 minute video/documentary that i made from my trip to north korea (which is my first video ever to hit 1 million+ views!) . this video will change your perception of north koreai recently spent 3 days in pyongyang, north korea with koryo tours and i put together this short video/documentary from the […] read more… posted in popular, travel68 comments posts navigation older posts newer posts categories blog in korea blogging budgeting golf popular snapchat stories social stories tips travel videos recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.