skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides the blog happy 10th anniversary to this weird blog posted on jul 9, 2019 posted in: random musings, site news ten years. it’s been ten years since i started this blog. ten years since rand accidentally named this site because he misheard me when i suggested “the everywhere list”. ten years since we registered the domain. a decade of writing posts – some good, some utterly embarrassing, some very, very outdated. the wormhole created by… keep reading i tweeted about the joker being a woman who was tired of this shit and it now feels auto-biographical posted on jun 4, 2019 posted in: nothing to do with travel, random musings recently my twitter replies were doused in gasoline and set alight. it’s been both somewhat alarming and interesting. (uncontrollable, raging fires usually are.) i wrote this tweet in the lobby of a hotel in downtown seattle after i’d had a day. an exhausting, emotionally draining day filled with some of the more intense stuff you… keep reading become invincible. then make cadbury creme egg mayonnaise. posted on may 24, 2019 posted in: food, life at home, nothing to do with travel, personal essay the problem with any writer who happens to experience that rare, fleeting phenomenon known as “external validation” is that for a few moments, we go a little mad. which is to say: we start believing our own hype. and for a writer, truly, what greater madness is there than believing in yourself? don’t get me… keep reading the tragedy of monica geller posted on may 14, 2019 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay i graduated high school in 1998, either (depending on which arbitrary marker you choose) the last of gen-xers or the first of the millennials. like so many of us who came of age in the 90s, friends was a delightful, aspirational glimpse of the future. (i had no perspective to realize that my friends of… keep reading i have a james beard award and i think you are so great. posted on may 6, 2019 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings, site news, writing my writing pitches don’t get accepted often. sometimes an editor will contact me directly, and i’ll send them a piece, and if it gets published, it may do quite well (my piece on bullying for the washington post was an example of that), but it rarely gets to that point. more often than not, i’ll… keep reading i bumped into a guy from high school and would now like to speak to the manager posted on may 3, 2019 posted in: life at home, nothing to do with travel, random musings hello, hi, yes, i would like to speak to the manager please? no, i don’t think that this is something you could help me with … okay. okay, fine. yes, so i’ve been shopping here for several years, and it’s always been a really positive experience. but yesterday i was walking down the freezer aisle… keep reading how to become a better public speaker (when you’ve just bombed on stage) posted on apr 22, 2019 posted in: advice, nothing to do with travel (pictured above: me during a far less neurotic presentation.) i am standing in front of a crowd under blinding fluorescent lights. they appear to be listening to my every word. and i am positively bombing. the room is too bright, and i can see everyone’s faces, but i am absolutely unable to read their expressions.… keep reading what is left when we go. posted on apr 12, 2019 posted in: personal essay, random musings we went to germany, and i cried. not right away. it wasn’t until the last day that i finally did. rand asked if i wanted to rent a car to go down to see my father’s grave. he asked me in the early hours of the morning, when jet lag had us both exhausted but… keep reading i got a james beard award nomination and heinz made a creme egg mayonnaise (no, really.) posted on apr 11, 2019 posted in: food, random musings, site news i was recently nominated for a james beard award for journalism, and statement which makes as much sense as saying “i was nominated for a grammy for this cookie that i just ate.” the other nominees in my category are – i kid you not – the new york times and the atlantic. i submitted… keep reading posts navigation previous page page 1 page 2 page 3 … page 161 next page about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.