 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog archives search categories blogging interviews wordpress reviews blog platform reviews cdn reviews registrar reviews web hosting reviews website builder reviews email services reviews wordpress themes reviews blogging 50 best freelance jobs websites to find work and make money in 2020 voice search statistics, facts, and trends (2020) the history of blogging – a complete chronology google search statistics, facts, and trends (2020) blogging statistics, facts, and trends (2020) cyberbullying statistics, facts, and trends (2020) the difference between a blog title and a blog domain name (url) how to increase blog traffic (100+ hands-on tactics) what is a blog? – the definition of blog, blogging, and blogger ten characteristics of a blog and a quality blog post the best blog name generators – find the perfect domain best of the best: 10 online grammar and punctuation checker tools 2020 the complete email marketing guide: everything you should know! don’t use feedburner – the 10 great rss alternatives for wordpress what is an rss feed? how does it work? what is copywriting? who is a copywriter? 100+ types of digital content you can make how much does it cost to run a blog? don’t use free blogging platform to launch a blog (if you want to be taken seriously) the beginner’s guide to blog content planning how to sell a blog for high five figures andrea vahl talks about social media and blogging benefits how to sell ads on your blog how to sell digital and physical products online how to sell your services online affiliate marketing: what is it and how does it work? what is content marketing and how it can help your blog? how to create a marketing plan for your blog what is blog marketing? how to choose what to blog about (with examples of viral headlines) how to become an authority blogger in your niche what is a blog post? – the perfect structure what is evergreen content and why your blog needs it? 16 practical tips that guarantee more blog subscribers 73 blogging tips from the pros 6 steps to discovering the best blog name ideas how to find a niche for your blog (step-by-step guide) 12 blogging mistakes that you should definitely avoid why do people blog? the 15 benefits of blogging best personal and niche blogs (30+ real examples) 8 types of blogs and bloggers. what type is yours? 20 reasons why you should start a blog (for business and pleasure) posterous is dead. what now? robot wisdom and how jorn barger invented blogging 84 experts reveal the 3 best blog marketing tips free blog checker / fifth eye tool blogger icon set by firstsiteguide.com new blogger sans font why do people blog?view more interviews how to use instagram to market your blog mario peshev on wordpress and being successful online entrepreneur pat flynn’s tips on how to create an online income the smart way the queen of facebook shares her blogging and social media tips how to be an online entrepreneur on fire michael stelzner introduces social media examiner to our audience how a good website and content marketing can help your business how blogging and online presence can help a writer mark schaefer’s advice on blogging and being known andrea vahl talks about social media and blogging benefits marketing and writing tips from ann handley learn online entrepreneurship from the wiseman – yaro starak co-founder of fizzle talks about how to become an independent entrepreneur shane barker’s tips on influencer marketing founder of the next web talks about his beginnings ashley faulkes talks about how it all started with mad lemmings take your email marketing outreach to the highest level with mailjet vlad olaru and his success of wordpress theme business founder of compete themes shares the story of his wordpress beginnings learn email marketing tricks from getresponse emil kristensen describes online marketing and brand building tips for successful online presence by daniel scocco marius padureanu introduces tagdiv – wordpress themes crafted with passion pavel ciorici from wpzoom shares secrets on wordpress development justyna polaczyk shares insight on livechat success catswhocode – wordpress and web development insights wpmatic – wordpress maintenance center by marcel sobieski dan schultzer talks about the launching of gospaces platform beaver builder – drag&drop design system for wordpress by robby mccullough kevin sanderson from vectips talks about his career as a designer omnisend – ecommerce marketing tool by karolina jasvinaitė manuel vicedo describes the success of cpothemes fit small business blog by david waring meet ryan m. pierson – technical writer for rockettheme snappa – a graphic design tool by christopher gimmer zac johnson’s tips for blog monetizationview more wordpress how to move your blog from movable type and typepad to wordpress how to move your blog from squarespace to wordpress how to move your blog from weebly to wordpress how to move your blog from wix to wordpress how to move your blog from tumblr to wordpress how to reset a wordpress site – beginners guide how to redirect users in wordpress 8 unknown facts wordpress.com sucks for serious bloggers make the best out of wordpress tags 21 tips on how to speed up a wordpress blog how to work with youtube videos in wordpress control the rss feed on your wordpress site like a pro how to search and replace text in wordpress modify search features of your wordpress website tips, tricks and best plugins for customizing wordpress menus how to create wordpress shortcodes and work with them more easily modify wordpress admin menus to your needs how to improve images in wordpress how to translate wordpress into any language how to change title attributes in wordpress how to create custom post types in wordpress how to control excerpts in wordpress tumblr vs. wordpress comparison 2020 blogger vs. wordpress comparison 2020 drupal vs. wordpress comparison 2020 joomla vs. wordpress comparison 2020 wix vs. wordpress comparison 2020 squarespace vs. wordpress comparison 2020 the best managed wordpress hosting 2020 how to use custom fields in wordpress the best wordpress themes for 2019 how to modify featured images in wordpress how to change the author in wordpress and best author plugins how to add a copyright notice in wordpress how to add google analytics to a wordpress website how to create a beautiful one-page website with wordpress how to hide posts on homepage of the wordpress website yoast seo plugin overview disqus comment system plugin overview what is gravatar? how to create and use it? how to start a wordpress blog: self-hosted and freemium the beginner’s guide to wordpress website security how to install wordpress cms wordpress permalink’s settings and custom url structure how to use the appearance editor in wordpress how to use the customize page to edit wordpress theme how to install plugins in wordpress what is a wordpress plugin? wordpress users roles and permissions how to add your first post in wordpress the right way how to add a navigation menu in wordpress how to install a wordpress theme? how to use widgets in wordpress dashboard how to use tools section in the wordpress dashboard how to create a custom 404 error page in wordpress how to customize your wordpress website header what is a wordpress theme? comments: what is a comment and how to manage it? using wordpress pages and creating a new page wordpress posts vs. pages how to use wordpress media library and add images how to use categories in wordpress how to update wordpress, themes, and plugins inside the dashboard the wordpress dashboard: admin area and panel how to find and login to wordpress admin url what is wordpress content management system (cms)? an overview of the wordpress settings section how to automatically update wordpress plugins how to backup your wordpress website how to add clickable phone numbers in wordpress the ultimate cpanel guide for wordpress beginners how to quickly find and edit code from themes and plugins how to create xml sitemap for your wordpress website add your wordpress site to google webmasters tools wordpress.com vs. wordpress.org comparison how to hack into a wordpress website, the complete guide link posts and pages to an external url custom background optionsview more blog platform reviews wordpress.org wordpress.com movabletype typepad blogger tumblr ghost medium svbtle postach.ioview more cdn reviews cachefly cdn fastly cdn cdn77 cdn cloudflare cdn maxcdn cdn incapsula cdn cdnsun cdn keycdn cdn cdnlion cdn amazon cloudfront cdnview more registrar reviews domain.com enom namesilo register.com godaddy registrar hover iwantmyname gandi namecheap name.comview more web hosting reviews dreamhost kinsta wp engine inmotion hosting webhostinghub bluehost siteground arvixe hostgator godaddy hosting greengeeks ipage fatcow yahoo hostmonster ixwebhosting justhost webhostingbuzz lunarpages hostclear webhostingpad 1&1 network solutionsview more website builder reviews squarespace weebly wix jimdo strikingly godaddy builder virb voog webs yolaview more email services reviews office 365 business essentials fastmail g suite icontact mailchimp pobox protonmail rackspace constant contact zohoview more wordpress themes reviews themefuse colorlib elegant themes graph paper press mythemeshop studiopress teslathemes theme junkie themify woocommerce wpzoomview more blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.