skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me category: blogging the golf trip of lifetime to ireland & scotland before i write this post, i’d like to extend a huge thank you to all my sponsors and partners for this trip. this includes north & west coast links, tourism ireland, scot golf travel & luggage forward. i just finished the best golfing road trip of my life across ireland and scotland with my dad! […] read more… posted in blogging, golf, travel7 comments why i want to visit syria when many people hear the word syria, especially americans, they cringe. they think negative thoughts. they think about war, turmoil and poverty. i know that the country has gone through rough times since 2011, but the worst of those days are over, and the country has been rebuilding at a tremendously fast rate. and that’s […] read more… posted in blogging1 comment why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… hello to all of my lovely friends, family and followers out there who are reading this. i’d like to extend a genuine thank you for your attention in this article, and i’m excited to share with you where i am heading in the near future. as you may have noticed, you are reading the very first post on […] read more… posted in blogging, travel37 comments categories blog in korea blogging budgeting golf popular snapchat stories social stories tips travel videos recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.