skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us blogging basics blogging basics blog design grow your blog make money blogging tools how to start a blog in 2020 – best guide for beginners (7 easy steps) alex and lauren mar 23, 2020 open this window to get started with bluehost now.start with bluehost nowstart now are you … [read more...] about how to start a blog in 2020 – best guide for beginners (7 easy steps) blogging basics is blogging dead? does it really have a future 2020 and beyond? [answers inside] alex nerney jan 27, 2020 whoa! that’s a scary headline, isn’t it? the harsh truth is that a lot of blogging is certainly … [read more...] about is blogging dead? does it really have a future 2020 and beyond? [answers inside] blogging basics best blog examples for 2020 | 80 popular & unique bloggers we love lauren mcmanus mar 16, 2020 when we first came onto the blogging scene, it was overwhelming to say the very least. there are … [read more...] about best blog examples for 2020 | 80 popular & unique bloggers we love blogging basics 101 blogging terms so you don’t feel dumb reading blogs alex nerney dec 13, 2019 i was reading an article recently, i saw the acronym cms and had no idea what the author was talking … [read more...] about 101 blogging terms so you don’t feel dumb reading blogs blogging basics should i start a blog? 10 reasons we wish we had started sooner alex nerney dec 13, 2019 if you're asking should i start a blog, chances are that are you already have some inkling of the … [read more...] about should i start a blog? 10 reasons we wish we had started sooner blogging basics what does a blogger do? my life as a professional blogger lauren mcmanus jan 8, 2020 i think a lot of people see how much money we make and immediately think, “what does a blogger … [read more...] about what does a blogger do? my life as a professional blogger blogging basics 6 best blogging platforms to make money (paid & free sites) lauren mcmanus dec 13, 2019 some blogging sites may feel better on your wallet, but many aren’t ideal if you plan to monetize … [read more...] about 6 best blogging platforms to make money (paid & free sites) blogging basics how much does it really cost to start a blog? (2020 update) lauren mcmanus mar 23, 2020 the costs are beginning to add up and you're wondering... but how much does it really cost to start … [read more...] about how much does it really cost to start a blog? (2020 update) blogging basics why our first blog failed… and how to prevent it from happening to you! alex nerney jan 22, 2020 you've likely heard a lot of success stories from us, but it hasn't all been sunshine and rainbows, … [read more...] about why our first blog failed… and how to prevent it from happening to you! blogging basics page 1 page 2 next page » lass="fa fa-close"> how to start a blog footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions