skip to content … menu about our history what is tabby’s place? virtual tour our intake policy visit us faq contact us newsletters gift catalog sponsorships virtual gift baskets donate in memory or honor supply critical needs blog volunteer application form resources request help with a cat adopt adoptable cats online application return policy donate donate sponsor a special needs cat memorial walkway donate in memory or honor other ways to help wish list lions of tabby’s place help by shopping leave a legacy search home felis catus the official blog of tabby's place. tabby's place > blog by angela hartley uncategorized how long? you and i and your congressman and lady gaga all want to know how long the pandemic will last. how long until we can hug, and frolic, and stand within six feet of one another? how long until we can shake hands, pass the peace, pass a werther’s original to grandpa, pass a day without […] march 27, 2020 no comments by sue k. uncategorized guest post: from a lonely volunteer editor’s note: as we ache for our volunteers, visitors, and assorted friends/buddies/pals of two species, the next best thing to a visit is a guest blog post. thank you, dearest sue, for this beautiful missive. fellow volunteers and other valiant tabby’s place people: if a blog post is percolating within you, hit me up. you […] march 26, 2020 1 comment by angela hartley uncategorized shook tell me true, kittens: have you hit a day yet? have you suddenly, innocently, inexplicably found yourself shook and shattered and shaken from all the shelters you’d fashioned for yourself in the time of pandemic? me, too. also talena. march 25, 2020 1 comment by angela hartley uncategorized rocketing skyward buongiorno, kittens. just when your patience for my prattle might be wearing thin, i’m thrilled to present you with a grand surprise: an update on tabby’s place alumnus inigo montoya. march 24, 2020 no comments by angela hartley uncategorized stay-home orders and stay-sane strategies how are you holding up, kittens? are you seeking the good? are you finding sparks of light? are you running down the street in your pajamas howling while clutching your favorite cat and your last roll of toilet paper and screaming “kennnnnnny roooogggers!” or are you a little of all the above? march 23, 2020 1 comment by angela hartley uncategorized twistin’ the terror away it’s my earnest hope that you’re finding inspiration in all manner of windows right now. march 20, 2020 1 comment by angela hartley uncategorized bendy like a cat, you are we are remarkable creatures, you and me. that’s not only because we’re exceptionally good-looking and sweet-smelling and love cats more than air. it’s because we’re human beans. march 19, 2020 no comments by angela hartley uncategorized enhaloed i have an idea. (cotton inspired it.) let’s run rings around each other. march 18, 2020 1 comment by angela hartley uncategorized arise! (at home) i’ve been hemming and hawing over how much to talk about it here. you know, that thing. that pandemic. march 17, 2020 no comments by angela hartley uncategorized level 4 musings everything has changed. nothing has changed. we have a choice in how we’ll be changed. march 16, 2020 1 comment posts navigation older posts categories news tabby's place uncategorized about our history what is tabby’s place? virtual tour our intake policy visit us faq contact us newsletters gift catalog sponsorships virtual gift baskets donate in memory or honor supply critical needs blog volunteer application form resources request help with a cat adopt adoptable cats online application return policy donate donate sponsor a special needs cat memorial walkway donate in memory or honor other ways to help wish list lions of tabby’s place help by shopping leave a legacy search home © 2020 tabby's place contact us search sitemap privacy policy search search for: