skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us blog design inspiration | 17 beautiful examples from noteworthy bloggers lauren mcmanus updated: 12/13/19 • comments: 16 home » create and go blog » make money » blog design inspiration | 17 beautiful examples from noteworthy bloggers disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin123 shares123 when you buy a house or rent an apartment, what’s the first thing you do? you spruce that baby up! you need a place to sit, so you get a couch. for entertainment, you bring in the television and hook up the netflix. and when its time to rest, how is the bed is situated? just the way you like it. all your plates and cups, and pots and pans have their own spot in the kitchen. who knows? you might even splurge for the nice curtains, the fancy towels, and the extra special smell good candles. feelin cute. idk. ????????‍ might paint the walls later. why do you do all this? because you want it to be comfortable. you want to feel like the lord of your domain, master of your own little castle. and when friends and family come to visit, you want them to like it too. have them pay homage to your great new place and all the wine you’ll be drinking with them. blog design is similar to home design. you want everything to have the right place for functionality and for aesthetics, and you need to feel good about it. in order to get people to want to stick around, you need a blog design that keeps guests wanting to hang around. your blog is your digital home on the internet. you don’t want to design your online home in a way that drives visitors to the nearest exit (i.e. obnoxious pop-ups, anyone?). in this post, we’re covering the best tips for a badass blog design that will turn your visitors into raving fans and coming back for more. we’ll also share 17 beautiful and inspirational examples to help get your creative juices flowing for your own blog. table of contents close open why does blog design matter so much? what are the makings of good blog design? 17 examples of great blog design why does blog design matter so much? humans want to aesthetically pleasing surroundings, or they want to bail. too much clutter and we feel overwhelmed and bounce. too minimalist and we feel bored and bounce. and blog design is everything from the headlines to the colors to the images to the style of your blog writing. if you’re blog causes mental strain for your reader before they’ve even read a single word, they will want to bail. good blog design is what keeps your visitors on the page, so you can convert them into a loyal fan, and eventually transitions them into customers. if you have any desire to monetize your blog, at some point you’re going to be selling stuff on your blog – be it your products or someone else’s. your blog is the first point of contact between you and a potential customer. that first impression better be a good one, or it will be that much harder to sell to them in the future. and, let’s be honest, even if you’re not selling products yet, you’re still selling yourself and your blog. it’s why your first goal must be to keep your visitors coming back, even if you’re just starting out and don’t have a product to sell yet. you still have articles to be read, email addresses to collect, and growth to strive for! what are the makings of good blog design? the first step is building the right foundation. use wordpress wordpress is the most widely used blogging platform and it has the most customizability, which helps because you’re probably building your own blog if you’re just starting out. there are also tons of free resources on wordpress online. choose the right blog theme when you are building a blog on wordpress, you have to choosing a theme to install on your blog to make changes to the design. there are a ton of free and paid wordpress themes to choose from, all with varying levels of customization. just be aware that if you opt for a free theme to save a few bucks, you’re going to end up with a lot more limitations (and headaches) at the end of the day. do yourself a favor and invest in a good, quality, theme as the base for your blog design as soon as you can. our best recommendation for beginners is divi. it’s the most customizable and beginner-friendly theme on the market! it also comes with access to the entire elegant themes market, which means that you have over 70 other themes to choose from even if you don’t like divi. $89 per year create and go rating check out divi open don’t clutter it up with too many plugins here’s a big secret to good blog design many bloggers get wrong – they don’t use enough white space. white space is the empty space on your blog. it’s the space between your graphics and text. effectively, it’s the visual breathing room the eyes need to avoid overwhelm… this goes back to the claustrophobic feelings of wanting to leave in a cluttered space. a simple blog design is better in most cases, and too many widgets and plugins can slow your site down and cause readers to bounce. stick to only the essential blogging plugins. mind your gaps, headings, and fonts if your words are too close together, the wall of text on your blog can feel too intense for the average reader. most people are skimmers, so they want plenty of space to quickly glance at what’s important. it’s one of the reasons why you need to use headings, subheadings, bullet points, and more to break up your article text. make sure to also use simple and professional fonts. fancy fonts can be difficult to read, especially on mobile devices. use caution with color choices using the wrong colors can make your blog look tacky, unprofessional, hard to read, or downright sloppy. too bright is going to be too much for your readers. dark colors can make things harder to read. you also don’t want to have too many colors. this makes your blog design look cluttered and can be overwhelming for the reader. you should select just a few colors in your overall blog design color scheme. decide on 2-3 that fit your personal brand and style. the images and graphics within your posts can be multiple colors, but there should be a general color scheme with headings, banners, clickable links, etc… you want it to feel uniform, not thrown together. use quality images we all like picture books. have you ever bought a recipe book without any photos? they’re the worst! great blog design includes having beautiful images and graphics. they make your blog more interesting, and less like a textbook that you never want to open. a word of caution on choosing stock photos for your blog — be selective. try to be creative (you don’t want the use the same photos everyone else is using). avoid photos with faces (it makes your photos less relatable). avoid the first-page search results (these are the most popular and most widely used). for example, a person’s hands typing on a laptop is pretty generic. but, a girl in a cool graphic t-shirt, with a mug of coffee, smiling while typing on her laptop is better. finally, avoid stock photos that look… well… super “stock-y” (like this one ????????‍ wtf) make navigation bars and menus user-friendly “design is not just what it looks like and feels like. design is how it works.” — steve jobs people need to be able to easily move from page to page on your blog. they also need to be able to quickly navigate to categories and home. it’s a good idea to prompt them with reasons to stick around too. think related posts and links within your blog posts to other pages on your website. finally, don’t forget to give them a call to action, and prompt them to sign up for your newsletter! 17 examples of great blog design okay, now that we’ve touched on the basics, let’s look at how these blog design guidelines can be implemented with some real-life examples! 1. mantelligence the homepage of this blog also has one large image and blog post link to get your attention, and the color scheme is also easy on the eyes. you can’t help but want to stick around on this page and read all the mantelligent things they have to say. 2. the blonde salad the best part of this blog design is the consistency of the color scheme (mostly pink with few accent colors). the cotton candy pink works beautifully on the banner, the footer, and everywhere in between. the photos are also big and attractive, and as you hover over them they expand just slightly to keep your focus on them. 3. i am baker where this blog design shines is simplicity. there isn’t much color — it’s mostly white — but the focus is on the beautiful and visually stimulating images. 4. xoxobella the navigation bar is so easy to read on this blog. big, bold letters that leave little doubts as to where to click for what you want to read. the color scheme is fun and there are no extra “frills” — the focus is on the blog. 5. denisedt this is another great example of good color scheme because you can see that she is even wearing her color in her photo: this page is the essence of chill. it’s simple, and the color scheme is calming. we also love the fact that her page has a killer call to action that draws you right into her sales funnel with a freebie that many people would be willing to pay for. 6. a beautiful mess this blog may be called a beautiful mess, but it’s anything but a mess! there’s plenty of white space, a rainbow color scheme that isn’t too overpowering, and plenty of big and gorgeous images to pique your interest. 7. christmas hq the page screams christmas — in a good way! — and leaves little doubt as to what it’s all about. great branding here. 8. the londoner again – white space, big pictures, and easy to navigate menus for the win. are you seeing a trend yet? 9. poppy loves the colors of this page just feel calming. and, the navigation menu certainly has a fun take using images in lieu of words. that is until you hover over them and the words are revealed. 10. brit + co what’s great about this blog design is that the homepage features one large image, with one post link. it captures your attention and makes you want to click to read more. 11. studio diy! their tagline is “make life a party,” and that’s exactly what their blog delivers. a party! fun photos, fun headlines, fun colors. 12. ytravel blog i swear travel blogs have it easiest because they can use real-life, amazing photos and skip the whole search for stock photos. this blog is no exception and at the time of writing this post, they have an awesome photo of their family on the front page, which creates an instant, personal connection with their readers. 13. ape to gentleman not only does this website teach you how to be a gentleman, but they are also using some amazing images to do it! they also have fabulous use of whitespace, and an awesome logo to go along with it! 14. help scout blog this blog is one exception that does seem to be able to “vomit up all kinds of colors” and get away with it! their graphics are awesome and definitely make the blog stand out against the rest. 15. clever girl finance bola, of clever girl finance, is actually one of our six-figure blogger students! she uses a main color of green with a secondary accent color that is… um… bluish purple? tbd, but she still only uses two main colors throughout her blog. 16. airbnb blog yeah, it’s more than just a site to book accommodations. they have a blog too, and it looks great! part scrapbook, part travel magazine – it’s a great supplement to their software and its purpose. 17. another escape the photos on this blog will have you wanting to get outside more. the images they use scream an outdoor lifestyle blog, and that’s exactly what it is. okay, that wraps this one up! over to you… tell us about your blog design! what elements do you think you should tweak for your blog to be more aesthetically pleasing? let us know in the comment section below! we hope this post has inspired you to make your blog even better. read next: free blog images – 9 best sites to get images for your blog get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin123 shares123 about lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. read this next how to make money blogging [from $1 to $100,000 per month] 2020 edition we had no idea we’d make $103,457.98 our first year blogging. honestly, that number seems so fake just typing it… like something you’d see in a movie or a dream. and that’s exactly why we created this website… because as crazy as it sounds, this is not a dream. this is a reality for many […] keep reading > similar articles make money google adsense for blogs [7 reasons why these ads suck] in 2020 affiliate marketing for bloggers (how we make over $25,000/month) how to create and sell digital products on your blog 7 real reasons why your blog is not succeeding see all blog posts 16 leave a reply 8 comment threads 8 thread replies 0 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 12 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest michaela miller hi! i’m starting my blog and i’m doing tons of research before j publish and what not so your blog and youthbe videos are awesome! for affilare links, i have a list of some that are likely to accept a newbie but i’m confused on if i have wordpress, would all the affiliate links go through that or you sign up for all of then individually. do they pay you through word press or through that company. i hope this makes sense. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago admin alex and lauren affiliate programs are not part of wordpress, which is your blogging platform. you would link to affiliate products within your post. most affiliate programs pay via direct deposit for paypal. that would be set up once you are accepted into the affiliate program. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago guest sajjad sir i have a question please give me some important sugestions .. i have a website but the issue isn that my whole traffic is from socila means from fb about 80 percent.. but i have heard that traffic from social can cause to ban your adsence .. please guide me… i am waiting you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren traffic from social media platforms should have no impact on your standing with adsense. depending on your niche, the bulk of your traffic will come from social media. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest marissa hi alex and lauren! just wanted to say thanks so much for all your amazing content. i’ve bought all of your courses (separately ha! because i had a lot of doubt of how useful they would be—then they all blew me away!! honestly, definitely the most straightforward and useful courses i’ve done!) my question is– have you guys ever had issues with page speed and divi? my website is super slow and when i analyzed it in pagespeed insights it said— themes, plugins, and server specifications all contribute to server response time. consider finding a more optimized theme, carefully selecting… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago admin alex and lauren the more customizations you make with your theme, the slower it will be. this is true for all themes, especially those that implement a page builder. i’d stick with your current theme and then switch later down the line when you can afford a designer. hope this helps! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago guest brandon hey lauren, we are having non stop problems with divi theme also, do you have any suggestion for a great developer? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago admin alex and lauren we recommend grayson bell with imark interactive for assistance with your technical issues. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago guest theresa hi there! where do you recommend in a logo design? i just want a text logo. thanks!! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey, theresa! ipiccy is a good place to design a logo. just go to https://ipiccy.com/ and go to the “create a design” area. you’ll want to create an image with a transparent background so it can be used on any color background. –lauren you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest teya | tlmblog lots of great tips! thanks for sharing! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest sonika srivastava it is really a great post. very informative and helpful. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thanks, sonika! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest sonika srivastava great post! it is very informative. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest robin i have been designing my blog in wordpress.org, but i really need support: someone i can text or call who can walk me through it. do you have any recommendations? i’ll be glad to pay for the assistance. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey robin. we teach more about how to navigate wordpress and design your blog in our launch your blog course, which can be found on the courses page of our website. it also comes with access to a private support group where we provide additional assistance, which you can also get from other group members as well. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents why does blog design matter so much? what are the makings of good blog design? 17 examples of great blog design footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz