 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog blogging 101 topics for beginners the blog is the backbone of the modern website. if you’re a beginner blogger and want to learn to blog you’re in the right place. in this section, you will find useful articles on how to start a blog and become a successful blogger. how to sell a blog for high five figures by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: july 7th, 2017 last updated: december 12th, 2019) posted in: blogging 0 comment starting a blog can be a very lucrative career choice, but many bloggers tend to transfer from blogging to something else after a while. that leaves them with a resource that they can cash in on, but how high can you go? six figures is a realistic number to aim for a well-established blog, but […] andrea vahl talks about social media and blogging benefits by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: july 7th, 2017 last updated: november 6th, 2018) posted in: blogging, interviews 1 comment you’ve successfully established yourself as a social media and internet marketing expert. what drew you into this area – was this always your interest, or did you find yourself swept up in it? i started using social media to promote my in-home wine tasting business (that was a dream job right there) and really loved […] how to sell ads on your blog by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: july 6th, 2017 last updated: april 5th, 2019) posted in: blogging 3 comments there are many ways to make money off a blog and selling ads is one of those. some people even create blogs with this goal in mind as it’s an entirely viable option and one of the legit ways to earn money. not all of us enjoy seeing ads and often getting annoyed by them. […] how to sell digital and physical products online by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: july 4th, 2017 last updated: august 22nd, 2019) posted in: blogging 0 comment it has become so easy to make money online that it seems like everyone is doing it. why shouldn’t you when it is quite simple and, most of all, beneficial? it doesn’t mean that you need to quit your job to start selling products or services online. you can do both but, to make sure […] how to sell your services online by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: july 4th, 2017 last updated: november 19th, 2018) posted in: blogging 1 comment selling services online is quite like selling products online. you can have an online store for your services, or your website can serve as a virtual business card that will showcase the services you offer. but, no matter how you decide to design your website, you cannot build it and expect for people to come […] affiliate marketing: what is it and how does it work? by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: july 3rd, 2017 last updated: january 3rd, 2019) posted in: blogging 5 comments as you might have already known, the digital realm offers many opportunities for making money. one of the most attractive options is affiliate marketing. while passive income and making money while you sleep sounds captivating, you have a long way to go before you can start making affiliate profits. if you are interested in affiliate […] what is content marketing and how it can help your blog? by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 30th, 2017 last updated: february 3rd, 2020) posted in: blogging 0 comment in a saturated digital market, a blogger needs not only to be familiar with content marketing but also to apply it in different forms on a daily basis. no matter if you’re starting your blog or you want to work on an existing one, content marketing is one of the most efficient types of online […] how to create a marketing plan for your blog by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 21st, 2017 last updated: january 17th, 2020) posted in: blogging 1 comment marketing plays a crucial role in a growth strategy for every business. it is important to know what you want to achieve and how to maximize the effect of your marketing efforts. as blogging brings an abundance of benefits, many companies rely on it to increase their reach and gain authority. but, creating a blog […] what is blog marketing? by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 20th, 2017 last updated: december 20th, 2019) posted in: blogging 5 comments attracting new customers is a critical business process for achieving steady growth. over time, with the advent of new internet technologies, marketing approaches have changed. many people prefer to go online to search for answers and learn more about a particular topic. for that reason, blogging and social media have become the most popular digital […] how to choose what to blog about (with examples of viral headlines) by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 19th, 2017 last updated: may 3rd, 2019) posted in: blogging 0 comment choosing what to blog about or picking a niche for your blog can be easy or hard, depending on how you decide to go about it. the easy way would be to pick something that you like to write about. you can share a personal information by exploring hobbies, documenting your life, etc. but, it […] how to become an authority blogger in your niche by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 16th, 2017 last updated: may 10th, 2019) posted in: blogging 1 comment there are so many different bloggers out there, some looking to express themselves and provide inspiring advice to those who need it, others looking to turn their blogs into something more, becoming real authority bloggers esteemed in their industry and reaching wild success. however, a great number of them just have no idea how to […] what is a blog post? – the perfect structure by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 14th, 2017 last updated: november 16th, 2018) posted in: blogging 2 comments if you want to start a new blog or already started one, the next step would be to figure out what to write. whatever the purpose of a blog is, personal or business, content would play a critical role in the blog success. you need to realize that the internet is oversaturated with textual content. […] what is evergreen content and why your blog needs it? by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 13th, 2017 last updated: november 14th, 2019) posted in: blogging 0 comment if you happen to be a newbie in the world of digital marketing, you might be not familiar with evergreen content quite yet. it is a popular buzzword used in content marketing and referred to one of the key factors for achieving content strategy success. whether or not, you are familiar with the evergreen content; […] 16 practical tips that guarantee more blog subscribers by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 9th, 2017 last updated: august 14th, 2019) posted in: blogging 0 comment a lot of people who run a blog often get so caught up in writing regular blog posts that they forget about the heart of their blog – their subscribers. your subscribers are one of the keys to making your blog successful and reaching out to more people. you can have amazing content, but it […] 73 blogging tips from the pros by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 8th, 2017 last updated: march 6th, 2020) posted in: blogging 0 comment eager to start? no wonder, since blogging has become a dream job for everyone endowed with a creative mind and a laptop. sharing ideas and voicing opinions seems easy, delightful and fulfilling enough for you to decide on building a blog and giving it a go. it is true, but there’s still a couple of […] 6 steps to discovering the best blog name ideas by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 6th, 2017 last updated: march 8th, 2019) posted in: blogging 0 comment choosing a name for your blog or website is not a simple decision, and once you select the name, there is no going back. also, it’s difficult as a large number of names are already taken and more likely that you’ll have to give up on your initial blog name idea. finally, the name can […] how to find a niche for your blog (step-by-step guide) by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 5th, 2017 last updated: december 12th, 2019) posted in: blogging 5 comments before you create a blog and move forward becoming a successful blogger, consider the following: “ the meaning of life is in attaining the highest form of knowledge, which is the idea of the good.” – ancient greek philosophers the same applies to blogging. you want to reach the highest form of knowledge in the […] 12 blogging mistakes that you should definitely avoid by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 4th, 2017 last updated: november 20th, 2018) posted in: blogging 2 comments at this point, even your grandmother knows that “you need a blog”, but not everyone knows how to be successful at blogging. you might know how to start a blog, but you have no idea how to make it productive and prosperous. we see a lot of people jump right in with little preparation and […] why do people blog? the 15 benefits of blogging by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 3rd, 2017 last updated: april 5th, 2019) posted in: blogging 2 comments when blogs and blogging began, the original purpose was for individuals to share their personal lives online, similar to an online journal. over the last decade, blogging has evolved from having more personal to more professional goals. instead of individuals solely blogging for their friends and family, blogging began to encompass professionals blogging for the […] best personal and niche blogs (30+ real examples) by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: june 2nd, 2017 last updated: february 9th, 2020) posted in: blogging 20 comments we all love to read quality blogs. it’s a great way to learn something new, something useful; or to be entertained. however, a lot of people want to become influential bloggers, since that position has a lot of potential for monetization. page 2 of 3 « previous 1 2 3 next » ← older posts newer posts → blog categories blogging wordpress interviews search how to start a blog the beginner's guide 2020 free guide + ebook learn blogging become a successful blogger learn wordpress understand the best practices blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.