skip to content resources podcast portfolio blog about contact menu resources podcast portfolio blog about contact blog uncle sam wants my photo of the u.s. capitol building u.s. capitol building the u.s capitol building is one of my favorite pieces of architecture. if you’ve ever been to havana, you may know there’s a duplicate of it there. it’s blocked off with chain pin share share tweet 0 shares read more » january 4, 2020 no comments how to take family christmas photos all over the world, people are taking family christmas photos every year. it’s about preserving memories and experiences, and about telling the story of those closest to you. for photographers, there is a balancing act pin7 share23 share tweet 30 shares read more » december 11, 2019 no comments top-down photos: how to plan and setup top-down photos, sometimes called bird’s eye photos, typically get attention from viewers because it’s not the normal perspective we have to view a subject. it’s great for food photography, and you frequently see top-down photos pin7 share23 share tweet 30 shares read more » december 4, 2019 3 comments how to decide which lens to use either you have a lot of lenses or you’re thinking about buying another one. how do you decide which lens is right for your needs? let’s put aside all the hype about some of the pin7 share14 share tweet 21 shares read more » november 27, 2019 1 comment photo composition tips you should know photo composition tips are everywhere. you usually get the same advice, too. use the rule of thirds and leading lines. we’ve shared that info also, as it’s useful advice. however, we’re sharing something a bit pin7 share19 share tweet 26 shares read more » november 20, 2019 3 comments how to improve expression and gesture in portraits if you’re taking photos of people or other living things, then you need to become a lover of expression and gesture. those are the little traits and characteristics of the body that tell the story pin9 share11 share tweet 20 shares read more » november 13, 2019 1 comment « previous page1 page2 page3 page4 page5 … page20 next » copyright © 2020 william beem free resources lightroom portrait brushes visual stories ebook lightroom classic performance hacks ebook creative portraits ebook navigation resources podcast portfolio blog about policies terms of use privacy policy disclaimer photo licensing contact menu terms of use privacy policy disclaimer photo licensing contact