toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog february 13, 2013 the irritating visualbee (vb) toolbar is malware! this article tells you, specifically, the best way to remove the visualbee (vb) toolbar from your computer. it tells how i got it on mine, and how i successfully removed it. it also tells you how you can remove the toolbar that’s troubling you! my story: recently i downloaded some malware accidentally. i had been reading different articles on improving the performance of my laptop’s battery and came across a program that would count the number of cycles my battery went through and notify me when it was time to calibrate it. (boy oh boy, just listen to me, the non-technical person, sounding all technical!) figuring it would be handy to have, i downloaded it. it is called batterycare, and i got it from cnet.com. the first step: once i realized i had some possible malware on my computer, i went into my computer’s control panel, went into programs and features, found anything related to batterycare and visualbee (vb) and uninstalled them. then i went to the recycle bin and emptied it. i thought this would do the trick. it didn’t. my google chrome browser was hijacked by this malicious toolbar. it would not let me do what i wanted. fortunately, i was able to open internet explorer and do a search on how to uninstall the visualbee, or vb, toolbar. i ended up at mybleepingcomputer, where i read the problems and testimonials of others who had experienced similar problems. my solution was ultimately found here. although i did not trust anything at that point in time, and was extremely upset for having malware on mybaby (my new laptop’s name!), i had to do something. since several people vehemently claimed that adwcleaner removed this toolbar successfully, i had no choice but to trust them. so i did. my next step, which worked: i had to download adwcleaner in order to get rid of the vb toolbar. when my computer asked me if i allowed this program to make changes to my computer, a big yellow exclamation point popped up and asked if i was sure when i said yes, even though i was not sure of anything anymore. however, i gave it permission, and then followed the steps i was told to follow in the posts i read at mybleeping computer.com and i was successful at removing this unwanted toolbar. if you decide that you want to remove the vb toolbar, also known as the babylon toolbar (it probably goes by other names, too) then i would advise going to the link i provided, which is mybleepingcomputer, and then scroll down about halfway until you see the #7 posting by boopme, which has the link for adwcleaner, as shown below, and then follow the specific instructions that boopme gives beneath this link. i guarantee that this will work, and is the best way to remove the visualbee (vb) toolbar. it worked for me!!! what i did next: i then did some further research. i found that most people who downloaded stuff from cnet.com got the present of malware that i did. my conclusion, therefore, is to not make the same mistake twice, and to never download anything from cnet ever again. i am writing this to warn you not to go through the hassles i went through regarding this malware. i have also posted warnings to my friends on facebook. i would like to shout out to the whole world that i hate cnet for causing me all this grief, and warn you to always look at the urls of the pages you visit when surfing the net. forewarned is definitely forearmed. until next time, happy surfing! january 15, 2013 living my life it is now january 13th, and we are almost two weeks into the new year. i set some goals for myself this year, and am diligently working on realizing them. i have never been more motivated, and it feels great! first off, i just bought a laptop, and i named her mybaby. i have never owned a laptop before, although i have some experience with working with computers. i must tell you, i am not a technical person. thank goodness that nowadays, i don’t need to be, as computers can do almost everything for me… i love mybaby, she’s great! i also am learning how to do all sorts of things on the internet, like building my own webpage, following people on twitter, interacting with others on facebook, and basically just trying to build a platform… a buzzword known to some of you but something that is new to me. why am i doing all this, you ask? simple. i am a writer, and i have a lot to say. i am also trying to “break in” to the literary community step by step, and achieve some personal goals. one of these goals is to publish a book that i wrote while attending university. although it has been about 17 years since i wrote the life and love of canadian poetry: an interpretative view, i have finally come to a point in my life where actions speak louder than words. i have something to prove to myself, and to my son as well. i wrote the life and love of canadian poetry: an interpretative view as part of the requirments for a course i took, “studies in canadian poetry”, taught by professor cindy soldan at lakehead university, in thunder bay, ontario, in 1996. i was given a choice on the first day of class: either plan to do a two-week take-home exam at the end of the course, or use the semester to do a bunch of research and write a book that i would submit at the end of the course to be used as my evaluation. i have always been a writer at heart, and i figured since i was spending thousands and thousands (and thousands and thousands) of dollars on a university education, i might as well learn something while doing it! anyway, i can’t tell you how many hours, days, weeks and months i spent learning the content of this book, but i do know for sure that it was one semester long… and i enjoyed every minute of it! my hard work paid off, too, as i received the highest mark in the entire class, according to professor cindy, who also encouraged me to get it published, something that never even occurred to me when i was writing it! the life and love of canadian poetry: an interpretative view is a reference book that will likely be used by college and university students, and is therefore marketable to college and university libraries. i am trying to get it published now… update: since writing this, i have been doing many other things. this book is still sitting on my shelf. ugh. 🙁 « 1 … 55 56 57 wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy