skip to content main menu web hostingmenu toggle best wordpress hostingmenu toggle kinsta cloudways liquid web for developers web developmentmenu toggle how to become a web developer how to make a responsive website divi review vim commands vim cheat sheet python modules list blog about search search for: blog the best css spinners & loaders using modern css techniques, it has never been easier to create a loader/spinner of any kind. this article showcases over 40 different techniques and styles. jean-baptiste jung february 29, 2020 10+ best online code editors as a developer, your main tool is obviously the one that allows you to turn your ideas into code: a text editor. as time goes by, more online text editors jean-baptiste jung february 16, 2020 best css frameworks for building better websites when building a website, using a css framework is a real time saver as it provides you with tools every web designer and front-end developer needs when crafting a site jean-baptiste jung february 15, 2020 best woocommerce code snippets: add to cart link & more since over 5 years, woocommerce is recognized as the most powerful and easy to use e-commerce plugin for wordpress. in this article, i have compiled my all time favorite hacks and code snippets to extend woocommerce possibilities. jean-baptiste jung february 13, 2020 inmotion hosting review & giveaway web hosting is a very important aspect of owning a website, as you need a reliable, fast and secure host. but there’s hundreds of companies providing hosting. today, let’s have jean-baptiste jung february 11, 2020 codeigniter tutorial: learn to master codeigniter codeigniter is an open source rapid development web application framework, for use in building dynamic web sites with php. in today’s article, i have compiled 10 very useful tutorials to learn to do almost everything with this powerful php framework. jean-baptiste jung february 10, 2020 useful sql queries to clean up your wordpress database after years of usage, your wordpress database can contain weird characters, be filled with data you don’t need anymore, and so on. in this article, you will learn about sql jean-baptiste jung february 10, 2020 advanced css tricks and techniques as time goes by, css is becoming more and more powerful and nowadays it offers lots of possibilities to create visually stunning websites. this article is a compilation of fresh, jean-baptiste jung february 8, 2020 php curl examples: 10 awesome things to do with curl curl, and its php extension libcurl, are tools which can be used to simulate a web browser. in fact, it can for example, submit forms. in this article, i’m going to show you 10 incredible things that you can do using php and curl. jean-baptiste jung february 6, 2020 wordpress breadcrumbs: how to use this function? unfortunely, wordpress doesn’t have a default function to display a breadcrumb. we’ll see how to create this navigation technique, and display it on our posts, pages and categories archives. breadcrumb…what’s jean-baptiste jung february 2, 2020 html5 audio player: the 10 best players among other great features, the new html5 specification allow native audio streaming. in this article, i have compiled the 10 most awesome html5 audio players available today. jean-baptiste jung february 1, 2020 html snippets: the most useful ready-to-use examples html is super easy to write, but when creating webpages you often need to do the same repetitive tasks, such as creating forms. in this user guide, i have compiled jean-baptiste jung february 1, 2020 mastering the html <audio> tag introduced with html5, the <audio> tag defines a sound and is used to embed audio content such as music or other streams in html documents. as of 2020, <audio> is jean-baptiste jung january 30, 2020 how to create a wordpress contact form without plugin many wordpress plugins can add a contact form to your blog, but a plugin is not necessary. in this tutorial, i’m going to show you how you can create a built-in contact form for your wordpress theme. jean-baptiste jung january 28, 2020 10 awesome php functions & snippets (sanatize input etc.) every web developer should keep useful code snippets in a personal library for future reference. today, i’m showing you the 10 most useful snippets and functions i have added to my snippet library from the past 3 months. jean-baptiste jung january 27, 2020 css transitions: tutorial and examples since the release of the css3 specification, transitions are allowing web designers and front-end web developers to create stunning css animations in pure css, without using javascript. this quick css jean-baptiste jung january 27, 2020 wzone plugin review: best amazon affiliate plugin? since the internet is around, affiliate marketing has always been one of the most efficient ways to make money online by promoting third-party products. today, let’s take a look at woocommerce amazon affiliates, a wordpress plugin designed to help you make money online using the amazon affiliate program. jean-baptiste jung january 26, 2020 19 ffmpeg commands for all needs ffmpeg is a multiplatform, open-source library to record, convert and stream video and audio files. created in 2000, it is a powerful command-line tool that runs on linux, windows and jean-baptiste jung january 26, 2020 top 10 web development best practices front-end web developent can seem to be easy at first, but producing a clean, semantic, and cross-browser code is definitely a hard job. in this article, i have compiled the top 10 best practices that have been useful to me in the past 3 years. jean-baptiste jung january 25, 2020 how to create a css progress bar the newest additions to both the html and css specifications allow web developers to craft beautiful and user-friendly components. amongst those components, progress/loading bars can contribute to making your website jean-baptiste jung january 25, 2020 how to create an editable table with jquery & pure css using open-source components makes it really easy and quick to build powerful front-end elements for websites or apps. in this tutorial, you’ll learn how to easily create an editable table jean-baptiste jung january 25, 2020 php regex for web developers regular expressions are a very useful tool for developers. they allow to find, identify or replace a word, character or any kind of string. this tutorial will teach you how jean-baptiste jung january 23, 2020 jquery alternatives: is umbrella js the best one? why umbrella js? jquery is an amazing piece of code! since its first release in 2006, jquery has played a key role in shaping the web as we know it jean-baptiste jung january 22, 2020 ready-to-use bootstrap forms & templates for your projects bootstrap is the most popular and probably the most complete front-end web framework, which allows developers to fasten the creation of a website or web app. in this article, i jean-baptiste jung january 22, 2020 jquery document ready: tips & practical examples jquery is extremely popular amongst front-end developers and is the preferred javascript framework of most coders. but even if jquery can simplify your js development and add a lot of possibilities, there’s cases where you can’t use jquery. here is tips and practical examples about how to do things you usually done with jquery without using the popular framework. jean-baptiste jung january 21, 2020 php: how to add expire headers for external scripts every website is using external javascript files. they are required for example when using google analytics, or an ad provider like buysellads. in order to leverage browser caching and optimize jean-baptiste jung january 20, 2020 10 useful text & xml formatting tools online as a web developer or online publisher, you have to deal with poorly formatted text files on a daily basis. so how to survive in this jungle of html written on word files, messy php source code and minified css? this article showcases the current most interesting online formatting tools in order to make your editing faster, easier and more efficient. jean-baptiste jung january 18, 2020 5 python scripts for seo: google trends api & more python is not only an amazing programming language, it’s also very helpful when it comes to developing tools for seo. in this article, i have compiled 5 of the best python scripts to optimize your website seo: check broken links and indexed urls, grab data from mozscape, and more. jean-baptiste jung january 15, 2020 how to create a simple and efficient php cache when working on php websites made from scratch and without a framework, speed can often be an issue. caching is extremely useful in order to speed up php webpages. in jean-baptiste jung january 12, 2020 10 php functions & code snippets to work with dates dates are always an important part of any website or app, but they can be a little tricky to deal with, especially for beginners. here is a list of a few php functions and code snippets that will definitely come in handy when dealing with dates. jean-baptiste jung january 9, 2020 visual composer review and discount code since a few years, drag and drop builders have attracted significant attention in the world of wordpress website development. amongst them, visual composer is one of the most popular plugins jean-baptiste jung january 7, 2020 top 10 javascript slideshows, carousels, and sliders when you’re looking for a very eye-candy way to display your content, slideshows are always a good choice. here’s our selection of 10 cross-platform, absolutely stunning slideshows, carousels and sliders, based on mootools, jquery, yahoo! user interface, and script.aculo.us. jean-baptiste jung january 7, 2020 top programming blogs to improve your skills it’s important to follow trends in your field to ensure you’re staying current on standards and protocols and perhaps more so in the field of coding. programmers of all specialties jean-baptiste jung january 6, 2020 how to create ajax forms using the wordpress wp_nonce_field when creating a wordpress theme or plugin, ajax is often used in order to enhance the user experience. in order to ensure security and protect your site against several types of attacks including csrf, wordpress provides security tokens called nonces. in this article, i’ll show you how to use nonces to protect ajax requests on a wordpress site. jean-baptiste jung january 5, 2020 node.js for beginners: where to start? node.js is an open-source, cross-platform javascript run-time environment that executes javascript code server-side. trusted by many big names on the internet, node.js popularity is growing exponentially. in order to get you started with this fascinating tool, here is a list of the most useful tutorials on the subject. jean-baptiste jung january 3, 2020 quick links contact terms of service privacy policy disclosure sitemap copyright © 2008 - 2020 catswhocode. all rights reserved. facebook-f twitter