wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » deals » hosting » bluehost coupon bluehost coupon one of the oldest web hosts, started in 1996, bluehost is the largest brand name when it comes to wordpress hosting. they are an official wordpress recommended hosting provider. wpbeginner users can take advantage of an exclusive bluehost coupon that gives you 65% off hosting. that means you can get bluehost web hosting for just $2.75 per month rather than $7.99 per month for your first year. you’ll even get a free domain included too. all you have to do is click the link below to claim this bluehost discount. coupon code clickhere (click to copy & open site) last used 8 hours ago reviewed by: syed balkhi rating: how to use the bluehost coupon code? wpbeginner’s exclusive bluehost coupon code helps you get 65% off their popular wordpress hosting. all you have to do is follow the instructions below to properly redeem the bluehost coupon code, so you can get the maximum discount on bluehost’s web hosting service. the first thing you need to do is visit the bluehost website through our link. you’ll see a message that says “special offer for wordpress users.” go ahead and click on the green ‘get started now’ button to apply the exclusive bluehost deal and start the checkout process. note: there are no promo codes needed. as long as you visit bluehost using the wpbeginner link, the exclusive 63% off bluehost offer + free domain + free ssl certificate will be auto-applied. first you’ll be asked to select your hosting plan: basic, plus, or choice plus. the basic plan is good for those looking to get started with creating their first website or blog. the plus plan is handy if you plan to have multiple websites. click the ‘select’ button on the plan you want to purchase. next, you’ll be asked to enter your domain name (such as www.yoursite.com). wpbeginner’s bluehost coupon allows you to get a free domain name for a full year. simply type in the domain name you want, and click ‘next’ to see if it’s available. on the last page, you’ll create your new bluehost account. you can either sign up using your google account or you can enter your details below this. below that, you can change how long you’re signing up for. bluehost will default to the 36 month package, which works out to $2.75/month (paid upfront). you can change this to a 12 month or 24 month term if you prefer. bluehost will automatically include various recommended extras with your web hosting account. you can turn these off if you want to, though we recommend keeping the ‘domain privacy + protection’ on. you’ll then see the total cost, and your savings. this is how you can be confident that the wpbeginner discount code has been successfully applied. finally, enter your payment information at the bottom of the screen. that’s all. go ahead and click the ‘submit’ button at the bottom of the page to complete your purchase. all purchases made using wpbeginner’s bluehost coupon deal comes with a 30-day money back guarantee and 24/7 support from their top-notch customer service agents. our bluehost discount also applies on their vps hosting, dedicated hosting, and domain hosting. all you have to do is visit the respective pages to purchase the different type of hosting plans based on your needs. again all web hosting plans are covered under their 30 day money back guarantee. however domain purchases are not covered, but bluehost lets you transfer domains to any other domain registrars. we hope you found our bluehost coupon code to be helpful. at wpbeginner, we work hard to negotiate exclusive discounts for our users. please check out our other wordpress coupons and deals here. other amazing deals enginethemes coupon get 20% off on enginethemes beautiful wordpress themes collection. view this deal » mint themes coupon get 20% off on minty, fresh, and well-organized wordpress themes by mint themes. view this deal » fancythemes coupon get 15% off on all fancythemes when you use this exclusive coupon for wpbeginner users. view this deal » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.