bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. chat call login bluehost terms of service quick links user agreement acceptable use policy domain registration agreement anti-spam policy user generated content terms privacy policy domain name dispute policy data request policy copyright claims policy ownership dispute/change policy professional services agreements affiliate agreement microsoft customer agreement user agreement all customers of bluehost's basic services are subject to the terms and conditions contained in the user agreement. the user agreement is a legal contract between bluehost and the user that contains the rights, duties and obligations of bluehost and the user. acceptable use policy bluehost's usage policy is designed to protect bluehost, its users and others from illegal, malicious, damaging and inappropriate behavior by users of bluehost's services. all users of bluehost's services are subject to the usage policy. the usage policy lists activities that are prohibited on bluehost's services, such as hacking and spamming. domain registration agreement customers of bluehost wishing to register, transfer or renew a domain name must agree to the domain registration agreement. anti-spam policy in our ongoing commitment to providing superior service for our customers, bluehost has introduced a new, more vigilant anti-spam policy. we have implemented the following policy as a part of our commitment to reducing spam related activity. privacy policy bluehost's privacy policy covers treatment of information that bluehost may collect from users of its products and services and from visitors to the bluehost site. domain name dispute policy the domain name dispute policy covers bluehost's involvement in disputes relating specifically to domain name registrations. data request policy the data request policy covers bluehost's handling of formal legal requests for the release of account information. copyright claims policy bluehost's copyright claims policy provides information for parties wishing to notify us of claimed intellectual property infringements present on sites hosted on our servers. microsoft customer agreement this page provides links to the additional terms and conditions that apply to your use of the microsoft products. user generated content terms bluehost's user generated content terms describes the terms and conditions under which bluehost may use content created and publicly posted by users to social media. ownership dispute/change policy the ownership changes and dispute policy covers the customers responsibility for any changes to the ownership of a hosting account. professional services agreements bluehost offers certain professional services in addition to the basic hosting service. customers purchasing any professional services must read and agree to the terms and conditions set forth in this section for each professional service they purchase. affiliate terms & conditions bluehost offers certain professional services in addition to the basic hosting service. customers purchasing any professional services must read and agree to the terms and conditions set forth in this section for each professional service they purchase. report spam & abuse please send reports of spam and abuse to tos@bluehost.com. in the case of spam, please include the full message being reported as spam including all mail headers. click here for more information on displaying mail headers. * the promotional price is for the first term only and renews at the regular rate. * 30-day money-back guarantee does not extend to domain names. products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.