wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » wordpress hosting » bluehost bluehost reviews one of the oldest web hosts started in 1996, bluehost has become the largest brand name when it comes to wordpress hosting. they are an official ‘wordpress’ recommended hosting provider. with bluehost, you never have to worry about your website being slow even when there is a lot of traffic. their 24/7 expert support is always there to help when you need it by phone, email, or live chat. they are rated #1 in web hosting for small businesses. on top of that, they are offering wpbeginner users an exclusive 63% off discount, a free domain, free ssl, and a free site builder with templates. last seen 8 hours ago reviewed by: syed balkhi rating: bluehost review from our experts bluehost is one of the biggest web hosting companies in the world and an official wordpress recommended hosting provider. bluehost offers a wide variety of hosting plans for beginners to larger businesses with a 24/7 customer support. see the complete bluehost review by our experts to find out if bluehost is the right choice for you. in this complete bluehost review, we will put their promises to test. these are the areas we will look into: performance: how fast will your website load with bluehost? we will test their speed and server response time to assess that. reliability: will your website be available 24/7/365 without any downtime? customer support: can you count on their technical support as a customer? features: do they offer all the features you will need to build your website? pricing: do they have the best pricing in the industry? are there any bluehost deals that can save you money? bottom line: don’t want to read all the details? let us give it to you straight. in our bluehost review, we found them to be reliable, fast, and affordable with friendly 24/7 customer support. that’s why we’ve chosen to recommend bluehost as one of the best wordpress hosting companies. now let’s dive into our detailed bluehost review so that you can decide for yourself. about bluehost first, let’s take a look at the company itself. bluehost started in 1996 and steadily grew to become one of the largest web hosting companies in the world. it now powers more than 2 million websites from all over the world. bluehost has a long standing relationship with the wordpress community. they are an official wordpress recommended hosting company since 2006. they pride themselves in their 24/7 customer support, great hosting infrastructure, and support for the free open source software like wordpress. pros and cons of bluehost all web hosting companies have their pros and cons. some you can live with, and some you cannot ignore. here are the pros and cons of bluehost that we learned. pros first, let’s take a look at the advantages that make bluehost the top choice. pricing: their hosting plans are well within the reach of most users, particularly those who are just starting out. reliability: they power a large number of websites with minimum downtime. no hidden charges: there are no hidden fees when signing up for your account. free domain: you get a free domain name for 1 year when you signup. cons bluehost is not without some disadvantages that you should be aware of before signing up. higher domain renewal price their free domain renewal price is higher than average. upselling addons: they have an aggressive upsell process during signup. but you can easily uncheck all the addons if you don’t need them. bluehost performance the most important performance metric that you should look for is the speed. it not only affects user experience on your site, but it also affects your wordpress seo rankings. studies show that a 1 second drop in website speed can decrease your conversion rate by 7%. a 3 second delay can cost you 50% of your traffic. let’s see how fast your website will load on bluehost. bluehost speed test results for a faster website, you will need to choose a fast web hosting company. keeping this in mind, we created a test site to see how fast bluehost really is. our test site was created using wordpress with default twenty seventeen theme. we imported dummy content for theme development including images. after that we used pingdom to test the website speed. here are our test results: as you can see, our test site loads in less than two seconds. that’s faster than 85% of all tested sites. considering the fact that our website wasn’t using any caching plugins or speed optimization tips, this result is remarkable. but this test website didn’t have large amounts of traffic. so the pingdom test alone isn’t good enough. to test how bluehost servers would respond with increased traffic, we used a testing tool called load impact to send virtual users (vu) to our site. they gradually built up to 100 visitors to see how the server would handle increased requests from multiple connections at once. here is a screenshot of our results. the blue line is the number of active virtual users on the site, and the green line is the server load time. as you can see the server load remained stable through out the test even at peak traffic. this test indicates that if you are looking for a really fast website, then bluehost can be a perfect fit for you. it is also important to note that we didn’t record any downtime during our testing. see the screenshot below for a detailed look at bluehost server uptime. bluehost server response time when you are testing a live website using tools like pingdom, you are basically seeing how everything on your website loads. this include images too, which take much longer to load than plain text. in order to get a more accurate server response time, we used another tool called bitcatcha. it allows you to test server response time without loading any data. as you can see bluehost server in the us performed under the fraction of a second. in other locations, response was a bit higher but still under less than a second. if your target audience is in the united states, then this would benefit your website. however if more of your users come from other parts of the world, then you can change your server location. bluehost hosting plans and features bluehost offers a variety of hosting plans for all budgets and sizes. this includes shared hosting, vps, dedicated server, cloud hosting, woocommerce hosting, wordpress hosting, and more. let’s take a look at bluehost hosting plans and their features. shared hosting: shared hosting is the perfect way to start a new website with low traffic volume. in a shared hosting environment, your website shares server resources with other websites. cloud hosting: a more reliable upgrade to the shared hosting plan. it allows you to utilize multiple cloud servers, allowing your website to automatically switch to a different server in case of a hardware failure or high traffic. wordpress hosting: a hosting package designed specifically for wordpress powered websites. it is optimized to run wordpress and can even protect your wordpress site against common threats. woocommerce hosting: woocommerce is the most popular ecommerce plugin for wordpress, it allows you to easily start an online store with wordpress. woocommerce hosting offers you all the essential features to kick start your ecommerce store. vps (virtual private server) hosting: an upgrade to shared wordpress hosting, vps hosting allows you to virtual dedicated resources in a shared environment. dedicated server hosting: a dedicated server to for your website, means you will have all the resources of the server to yourself. the downside is that you will have to manage the server on your own. all bluehost hosting plans allow you to install wordpress with 1-click. all plans come with an easy to use hosting control panel where you can manage your hosting, create databases, etc. breakdown of bluehost’s shared hosting plans bluehost offers a shared hosting package suitable for starter websites. their shared plan is available in three different levels. let’s take a look at what’s included in each plan. basic: the basic plan only allows you to host one website. it hosts one domain and 25 subdomains, 50gb storage, 5 email accounts of 100 mb storage for each account. for the first term you’ll pay $2.95 per month. when you renew the account, you’ll have to pay $7.99 per month. plus: the plus plan includes unlimited websites with unlimited web space and bandwidth. you’ll also get unlimited email accounts. the price for the first term starts from $5.45 per month. when you renew the account, you’ll have to pay $10.99 per month. prime: the prime plan includes all features of plus plan. you will also get domain privacy and sitebackup pro as extras worth over $80/year. prime also has the same first term price of plus, $5.45 per month. when renewing, you’ll have to pay $14.99 per month. if you are just starting your website, then you can select any of these plans. you can easily upgrade your hosting plan as your website grows. bluehost support and customer service we all need help every now and then. it is really important that you choose a web hosting company that offers help and support when you need it. bluehost maintains a huge library of articles, step by step guides, and video tutorials as part of their extensive knowledge base. this is a huge help for beginners and most common issues can be quickly resolved by a simple search. however, sometimes you may need to talk to an individual to get more help. bluehost offers a 24/7 support system where you can talk to their customer support representatives using live chat or phone. this is really helpful when you need quick help from technical support staff. one thing that is missing is the ticket based support system. bluehost recently decided to eliminate ticket based support to focus on personal approach of live chat and phone based support. however, some users may still miss the ticket based support system which is particularly good if your issue cannot be resolved in one live chat or phone session. conclusion: is bluehost the right choice for you? after reading this review you might be wondering if bluehost is the right choice for your website? bluehost is often ranked #1 hosting company by many websites. they offer a wide range of hosting plans with tons of features that help you easily build your website. all their hosting plans include expert 24/7 customer support from knowledgeable staff. most importantly, they offer affordable starter plans that fit any budget requirement. if you are just starting out, then you cannot go wrong signing up for a bluehost shared hosting plan. its easy on your pocket, and comes with all the right tools. as your site grows you can easily upgrade your hosting plan accordingly. ready to start your website bluehost? click here to select your bluehost plan. bluehost coupon wpbeginner users get an exclusive 60% off discount and a free domain with our bluehost coupon code. all you have to do is click on this link to purchase. the discount will be applied automatically. 299 bluehost user reviews yalda nasirian says: mar 21, 2020 at 11:46 am support team are really amazing; they are professional and solve my hosting issues very quick. highly recommended for hosting provider! reply db mcnicol says: mar 4, 2020 at 6:45 pm i’ve been using bluehost since last june, based upon 1) the recommendation here, 2) the ability to lock in 3 years at a low rate, and 3) the reasonable monthly fees after that. as a new wp user, i had a big learning curve initially. several chats with support on various issues and they were all resolved quickly. i haven’t had to contact them in over six months. i’ve had one major (reported) and one minor (back up before i could worry about it) outage. performance has always been good. i currently have 4 live sites with them, opps, no, 5, and all with email. no issues. reply shiva mohammadi-jam says: jan 27, 2020 at 1:28 pm i have been using bluehost for more than two years to host our own organization’s domain. i found it super fast, reliable and cost-effective. also, it is easy to use, even for beginners. more importantly, the support is fast and competent. reply geoffrey nwachukwu says: jan 20, 2020 at 3:53 pm bluehost made it very simple for me to migrate my existing wordpress website with their beautifully designed interface and tooling. moreover the speed of the site has improved drastically. well done reply edgar daniel ruiz santiago says: jan 20, 2020 at 11:27 am amazing customer service and good prices reply valerie pitaluga says: jan 20, 2020 at 12:09 am we run multiple sites and use a competitor for one of the sites where we have no option (decision made by the board of directors) so i can confidently say that bluehost far supersedes its competitors and provides a better value for web hosting and associated services reply norman jutie says: jan 19, 2020 at 8:20 pm i’m from the philippines and i use bluehost because it’s easy to use and affordable, there are plenty of exciting features and extras included at every price point, and the diversity of plans provides a lot of flexibility for every budget bluehost is literally one of the top few that i would recommend to anyone and everyone. reply kristina forrest says: jan 18, 2020 at 9:52 pm i love using bluehost for my web hosting service. they are easy to contact and provide excellent service. can’t recommend enough. reply lisa macy says: jan 18, 2020 at 5:59 pm just over a year ago i decided to change my blog only site on wordpress to a wordpress/woocommerce site. i looked at a few different hosts and ultimately chose bluehost to be the host of my website. while i was building my website (which i hadn’t a clue how to do), they were very helpful, and anytime i have an issue (which is very very rare), they are very helpful. they have anything and everything you need to start from scratch with a website like i did, so don’t hesitate to go with them as your host! reply ali arshad says: jan 18, 2020 at 3:37 pm the best hosting company i met ever met in my online career. bluehost played a big role in ranking my websites to the top google’s page. reply dana says: jan 18, 2020 at 10:36 am im so greatful for bluehost, i have read only positive reviews and recommandations. all navigation is super simple and eventhough i have always counted myself as pc illitarate with all the help and bluehost guidance im actually doing this. even beginner can build his website with bluehost. i have more ideas for websites and i will deffinitely be using bluehost again. big thumbs up, 5 out of 5, reply nicholas githinji says: jan 17, 2020 at 7:33 pm bluehost support, whether via chat or call, is really great, supportive and timely. however, sometimes the cpanel has glitches when setting up hosting but it’s very rare. usually, i use shared hosting but i recently bought vps and am eager to see how the site performs. so far so good! overall, bluehost is dependable seeing as it hosts 90% of my sites. reply jess spoto says: jan 17, 2020 at 7:30 pm i have been using bluehost for my business site for the last twelve months, and recently renewed my plan with them. bluehost made it easy to get started online, and i appreciate their helpful emails. i would recommend them to other small business owners looking for a reliable host. reply rob rice says: jan 17, 2020 at 3:41 pm great support. feel very confident when i have any questions i look forward to speaking to customer support reply ivet fortun says: jan 17, 2020 at 10:05 am i love using blue host! it’s easy for me to use even with my very limited technical skills. i also appreciate that i can have several tools for my website in just one place. all of these benefits come together at an incredible price. thank you bluehost! reply helen wagner says: jan 16, 2020 at 3:24 pm blue host is very responsive to my questions. someone at the helpdesk (sorry i can’t remember who) was helpful with my question regarding my web site. reply jay says: jan 16, 2020 at 11:07 am well, to be frank, the most feasible and reliable for webhosting service i ever had. for me, the support platform is totally awesome and anyone from non-technical to technical person each and every query solved by the support team. i also purchased the godaddy platform but from my own experience, i will say if u r going for wordpress hosting, then this is the best! love from india and happy new year! jay reply melissa b says: jan 16, 2020 at 11:02 am i have been using bluehost now for 9 months. i am new to websites and design. after reading many reviews and looking at other hosting sites i decided on bluehost and i am sure glad i did! everything has been running well and i am really finding it easy to learn. support has been excellent ! i recommend bluehost for all of your needs. reply rene altermatt says: jan 16, 2020 at 4:51 am i started with bluehost for my new website and i’m very happy with the product. the quality is very good and the support is very helpful! reply shahan says: jan 16, 2020 at 1:56 am bluehost is the best website for creating lots of things. reply rene altermatt says: jan 15, 2020 at 10:37 pm i chooset bluehost for start my new website. very easy to get startet and a fast process. the support is realiable. very good quality reply chan hay man says: jan 15, 2020 at 9:37 pm i think bluehost is okay. on the upside, the interface is intuitive and easy to use, the 24-hour support is very helpful, the price is unbelievably low, the integration with wordpress is seamless, the basic mail service is easy to use. on the downside, the server has gone down twice (ard 2 hours and ard 15 minutes) during this first month i launched my website, the support does not respond very quickly but gets automatically disconnected if you do not reply within a few minutes, and the speed is just average. reply mostafa dehkani says: jan 15, 2020 at 8:46 pm great service and great support, really recommend blue host. reply pearl says: jan 15, 2020 at 8:23 pm i use bluehost to host my personal blog. i have had no issues at all with bluehost. i use wordpress, and bluehost has a great deal with them, so it’s incredibly affordable. i haven’t had to contact their customer service yet, but whenever there is something that i’m not sure how to do, their online tutorials or explanations are always pretty clear. looking forward to continuing to use bluehost! reply ana stefani parker says: jan 15, 2020 at 8:07 pm i purchased bluehost last year when i decided to start my own wordpress business website. bluehost simplified the process and gave me several helpful tools to help me in setting up my website . i’ve had no technical issues over the past year that i couldn’t resolve within a few minutes. whenever new websites or bloggers ask me how to set up, i always point them to bluehost. xo , reply linda vu says: jan 15, 2020 at 7:24 pm very easy to use and great value for my blog and an overall great platform to use. i would highly recommend! reply hannah barton says: jan 15, 2020 at 7:10 pm i’ve been a bluehost customer since may 2019, and my experience thus far has been great. i’ve had literally zero problems, and love that wordpress is included. it’s been a great hosting service for my blog, and i anticipate that i’ll be a satisfied customer for quite a while. reply rey john lorca says: jan 15, 2020 at 6:26 pm bluehost is my first hosting site and is instrumental in helping me grow my company. it is easy to navigate through its interface. as personal experience, even if i am not an it expert, i was able to build my website using bluehost. they offer variety of learning options and the team go beyond a extra mile to support their users. thus, keeping me stay with bluehost. reply dee gott says: jan 15, 2020 at 5:41 pm i have been with bluehost for the past year and i have enjoyed my experience. when i have ever had a problem which was not that often, the tech team was right on it and cleared up on the first visit. i have since migrated to wordpress pro and have finally got things the way that i want them. the team worked overtime, in my opinion, to make everything perfect for me. as with anything, bugs happen and they certainly know how to get rid of them. thank you, bluehost for all your efforts! reply nicholas dueck says: jan 15, 2020 at 5:18 pm i simply have been loving bluehost for the past year. it makes working with wordpress very seamless and easy. if you’re looking for a very cohesive product i highly recommend the two products. no complaints so far! reply heather seyhun says: jan 15, 2020 at 4:19 pm bluehost has been an easy way to create an online presence! their customer support is excellent, with affordable plans that fit everyone’s budget. i am a happy customer! reply shelley craig says: jan 15, 2020 at 3:36 pm bluehost support overall is very good for the cost involved. they helped with a difficult issue when i was launching an author’s website for their first book. days before the book launch the site had issues because of some server maintenance issues. the bluehost team worked diligently to find the problem and get us ready for launch. the book launch was a success and the book became a #1 best seller on amazon. reply man yee keung says: jan 15, 2020 at 3:33 pm bluehost is great so far! i purchased a discounted bluehost subscription a few months ago through an affiliate link. i found bluehost because after searching for hosts for my website, bluehost came up as one which was highly reputable and very easy to manage. i have not launched my blog yet, but bluehost has not given me any issues at all thus far. there are numerous features and a helpful checklist to get my blog up and running. i love the look of my blog already, even though i don’t have any experience building websites. reply andrius gudaitis says: jan 15, 2020 at 2:59 pm very happy with account, easy to use, speed good. has excelent customer support with any issue reply joyce derenas says: jan 15, 2020 at 2:38 pm i’m delighted with bluehost for managing my wordpress website. as i continually learn more about running an efficient site, bluehost has more than enough services and 3rd party add-ons to make me happy. i’m slowly starting to turn my site into an english / french site and again, it’s easy on bluehost. they are very responsive to any phone calls or emails from me. i’m a customer for life. reply irene martin says: jan 15, 2020 at 2:11 pm really easy to build a website with bluehost and wordpress, lots of tutorials online. i have no background on building website and had mine running in 5 days. great tool. reply alan snelson says: jan 15, 2020 at 2:04 pm bluehost and wpbeginner helped me to get a complex website on line in a fairly straightforward way. although i had created several websites using a variety of software i was a complete beginner with wordpress. without the guidance and support of bluehost i wouldn’t have had much idea how to get things set up. the hosting has been super reliable too, with no discernible downtime and all for a very reasonable cost. reply elfadil abdallah baker says: jan 15, 2020 at 1:32 pm bluehost is awesome for me, it has cool tools all tool in one place for use when you need it, this helps me gain time and complete all tasks quickly and easily, reply dan lovallo says: jan 15, 2020 at 1:27 pm i switched my domain from namecheap, including easywp to bluehost, where my domain and wp now rest. the transition was seamless and bluehost has been terrific, when it comes to support. i hope to remain with bluehost for a longtime. reply imad abou jaoude says: jan 15, 2020 at 1:25 pm best hosting company online! reply harsh mankad says: jan 15, 2020 at 1:05 pm my experience with bluehost has been very positive from setting up my website hosting to the support i received for developing and launching the site. i’m very happy with my decision to go with bluehost! reply given hoffman says: jan 15, 2020 at 12:57 pm with bluehost setting up a website was so easy. phone assistance from bluehost was great. they helped me through a couple issues i had with wp that they totally didn’t have to help me with but did anyway. i have been so pleased with their customer serve, their pricing, and their hosting. reply komar adriant says: jan 15, 2020 at 12:53 pm so far, i like bluehost, better than my previous provider. provide an easy control panel to learn and use even for new user, have a useful feature, good performance and helpful (documentation and customer service). simply i feel happy and satisfied from all aspect because it meet my expectation of a professional provider reply jennifer hamm says: jan 15, 2020 at 12:53 pm i had always wanted to start a blog, but had no idea where to start. with no experience with creating websites i was a little intimidated. however bluehost made it easy. everything was laid out in an understandable format and all the tools i needed where right at my fingertips. i am now up and running and i couldn’t have done it without bluehost. i couldn’t imagine creating my content using any other host out there. reply tom merrett says: jan 15, 2020 at 12:42 pm blue host offers great functionality and customisation options. i wouldn’t choose any other platform reply megan flynn says: jan 15, 2020 at 12:36 pm i’ve been using bluehost for the last couple of years for a couple of different projects, most recently to launch my own company. i chose them after an extensive, careful review of all the various options out there—specifically those that work best with wordpress. i’m so glad i chose bluehost, and i recommend it to all of my clients. it’s affordable, their support team is responsive, and their services work beautifully with wordpress! reply sarah hull says: jan 15, 2020 at 12:29 pm i was looking for a new hosting company as my existing i felt was continuously throwing advertising and making it more and more convoluted to move around in my control panel. i have not looked back with finding bluehost, their cpanel is so clear and simply i don’t have to jump form page to page just to find what i am looking for. i think the one thing that really did win me over to join up was their chat & call staff, all had impeccable knowledge, were so helpful and happy, generally seemed happy to work their and take my call and solve my problem or questions. i can’t stress enough that it’s so nice to have a simple but yet effective and efficient cpanel… thank you for really figuring that out. reply tara freeland says: jan 15, 2020 at 12:24 pm bluehost has been easy to work with and dependable, definitely recommend for website hosting. two thumbs up. reply sarah chung says: jan 15, 2020 at 12:24 pm i moved from godaddy to bluehost, i found that bluehost understand the customers’ emotion, wants, and needs. they are passionate, flexible and have compassionate. i also paid for the bluesky, employees are knowledgeable and patience. i strongly recommend bluehost. reply mike brailey says: jan 15, 2020 at 12:19 pm i have been using bluehost for more than a year to host a number of client sites. the platform is reliable and the support team (who helped me in the early days) were knowledgeable and keen to assist. i recommend bluehost as a comprehensive partner for anyone considering setting up a wordpress website. reply load more comments add your review cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) maxcdn coupon get 25% off maxcdn, the same service that we use to make our site super fast. oio publisher coupon get $10 off on oio publisher, a robust ad management plugin for wordpress. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.