bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates cad usd eur gbp aud inr chat call login wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates chat call call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 login cad usd eur gbp aud inr fast and reliable wordpress hosting plans managed wordpress hosting engineered to deliver total wordpress perfection. starting at ca$5.30/month* compare plans now plans that fit you + service you can rely on our wordpress hosting plans are built for performance and reliability. each hosting plan includes a free domain for one year, instant wordpress installation, automated updates and backups, unlimited bandwidth, and 24/7 wordpress expert support. wordpress hosting get online. our most popular wordpress hosting solution provides everything you need to get started quickly. great for: getting familiar with a new wordpress website or blog managing multiple low traffic wordpress websites small projects learn more wp pro manage your growth. faster than shared hosting, wp pro is optimized to host complex websites at lightning fast speeds. great for: managing high traffic and short term spikes monitoring marketing success tracking wordpress website performance learn more ecommerce build your shop. everything you need to sell online, and much more. shopping carts, inventory management, paypal processing, and additional tools are all included. great for: online shops high traffic wordpress websites secure payment gateways learn more why wordpress and bluehost? open source wordpress websites offer the freedom to move your website to any hosting provider or platform. whether you need shared, cloud, vps, or dedicated hosting, wordpress is flexible for all platforms. additionally, if your current hosting provider is no longer a good fit, you can easily migrate your website to another. themes and plugins easily choose from thousands of free themes and plugins for your wordpress website. themes help simplify the design process while plugins can add powerful features with just a few clicks. wordpress puts the power of the web in your hands and allows you to create without a professional web developer. reliable stability wordpress powers over 25% of the internet. with proven performance and stability, it is trusted by millions of website users and developers worldwide. building a website can be daunting, but wordpress provides the reliability you need to build the best and most stable website available. recommended by since 2005 new to wordpress? check out our "getting started" series and blog to learn more about why building a wordpress website is the right choice for you. getting started installing wordpress logging into wordpress installing a theme installing a plugin migrating an existing site blog 50+ wordpress terms you should know how do i transfer my domain name? 8 outstanding ways to promote your new website start your blog or site in 5 minutes have questions? we're here 24/7 to answer your questions and offer advice to help you get started. 888-401-4678 chat call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 complete wordpress hosting solutions starting at ca$5.30/month* get started × usage policies how much disk space and bandwidth is included with my plan? for packages supporting unmetered disk space or data transfer (bandwidth), we do not have defined limitations. these resources are "unmetered", meaning you are not billed according to the amount of disk space or bandwidth used. while of course these resources are not infinite, we believe our customers should have all the resources necessary to build an online presence and 99.95% of customers will have more than enough disk space and bandwidth to meet their needs. that said, we do require all customers to be fully compliant with our terms of service and utilize disk space and bandwidth in a manner consistent with the normal operation of a website. while rare, we occasionally constrain accounts utilizing more resources than should be the case in the normal operation of a personal or small business website. how do you determine "normal" operation? we regularly examine customer bandwidth and disk space utilization data in a series of statistical analyses and use the results to define "normal". although these tests vary from month to month, one thing remains constant: 99.95% of our customers fall into "normal" range. if your account's bandwidth or disk space utilization causes any concern, you will receive an email asking you to reduce usage. we strive to provide at least 48 hours notice to allow customers to make adjustments before we take any corrective action. it is very rare for a customer to exceed normal usage while managing a website. typically, customers only experience issues if they use their accounts for storage (for example large multimedia files) or file sharing. our hosting services are not intended to support these activities, and in accordance with our terms of service your disk space and bandwidth usage must be integrated into the normal operation of a website. we offer various plans that better address high bandwidth and large storage requirements. please contact us for details. what constraints exist on websites, domain names, or email? for plans or packages featuring unlimited websites, domains, or email accounts, we do not enforce any official limitations. customers are able to utilize as many of these features as they wish. that said, these are of course not infinite resources and there are inherent maximums associated with the technology powering them. for example, while email account creation is unlimited, these rely on the file storage available on the account. therefore customers need to be operating within the terms of service to ensure resources are available to fully enable email functionality. customers operating within the terms of service have yet to come up against technical boundaries for email, domains, or websites. * the promotional price is for the first term only and renews at the regular rate. products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 × 30-day hosting money-back guarantee the promotional price is for the first term only and plans renew at the regular rate. your satisfaction is our top priority and we're confident you'll be pleased with our services. still, if you try us and decide your account does not sufficiently meet your needs, you can cancel within 30 days for a refund as follows. if you cancel within 30 days you receive a full refund on your hosting service only. the money-back guarantee does not apply to most add-on products, such as domains, given the unique nature of their costs. if you cancel within 30 days and your plan includes a free domain, bluehost will deduct a non-refundable domain fee of $15.99 from your refund. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. you may transfer it to another registrar or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. please note newly registered domains cannot be transferred to another registrar during the first 60 days of the registration period. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you renew it. bluehost does not offer any refunds for cancellations that occur after 30 days. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.