bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates cad usd eur gbp aud inr chat call login wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates chat call call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 login cad usd eur gbp aud inr lines welcome to the perfect place to wordpress. what, and where, is bluetopia? imagine a world where you can share all your passions online, where the possibilities are "endless", and where you get all the expert advice you need to realize your dreams. that's bluetopia and bluehost's vision for creating the perfect website. for three days in nyc, we invited people to literally step inside this world, be inspired by it, and work with our blue flash experts to build their own perfect website. a digital experience made tangible. visitors immersed themselves in the creativity of building the perfect website for their retail shop, travel blog, or e-commerce business. three distinct spaces represented three kinds of websites. the websites were on display on ipads mounted to the walls of each room for visitors to explore. #info meet our blue flash experts. our blue flash experts can make working with wordpress a breeze. check out their expert wordpress tips below. pro tips with bluehost ecommerce edition pro tips with bluehost blogging edition pro tips with bluehost small business edition download the blueprint. can't wait to get started? download the blueprint, our new user's guide to wordpress, and start building your perfect website today. download now products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 × 30-day hosting money-back guarantee the promotional price is for the first term only and plans renew at the regular rate. your satisfaction is our top priority and we're confident you'll be pleased with our services. still, if you try us and decide your account does not sufficiently meet your needs, you can cancel within 30 days for a refund as follows. if you cancel within 30 days you receive a full refund on your hosting service only. the money-back guarantee does not apply to most add-on products, such as domains, given the unique nature of their costs. if you cancel within 30 days and your plan includes a free domain, bluehost will deduct a non-refundable domain fee of $15.99 from your refund. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. you may transfer it to another registrar or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. please note newly registered domains cannot be transferred to another registrar during the first 60 days of the registration period. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you renew it. bluehost does not offer any refunds for cancellations that occur after 30 days. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.