skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us bluehost coupon code: 65% off + free domain name (2020) alex and lauren updated: 3/20/20 home » create and go blog » blogging tools » bluehost coupon code: 65% off + free domain name (2020) disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. bluehost is one of the largest and most mature web hosts on the market. having first launched in 1996, bluehost has become a household name in the blogging world and for good reason. they are one of a handful of recommended hosts by wordpress, which is the largest blogging content management system (cms) on the market. claim your discount now and get web hosting through bluehost for up to 70% off their regular costs. get my discount nowlearn how to start a blog coupon code click here (click to copy & open site) how do i use this bluehost coupon code? this coupon code will give you 63% off of the normal web hosting package. to claim the discount, simply click here to open up bluehost in a new window and then follow the step-by-step instructions below to get started. next, you’re going to see a great big photo of alex and lauren from create and go, which will let you know that you’ve got the discount! the very first step is to click on the big green button to get started now! next, you will see a list of hosting package options. you can choose which plan you think will meet your needs, but most people don’t need anything above the basic plan. next, you can create your domain name for your blog, or you can simply click the link below that to create your domain name later if you need some more time! a domain name is the name of your blog and the text that appears in the url. for example, our blog’s domain name is “createandgo.com/.” and like we said before, if you aren’t sure what you want to name your blog just yet or are afraid you might change your mind, don’t sweat it! just click the link to choose your domain name later! next, fill in your details in the account information section: you will next see a section with some information on the package that you have selected as well as some additional options. first, select which account plan you want. this is the length of your hosting plan. if you choose the 36-month plan, you’ll save the most money in the long-term. also, just a reminder that this plan comes with: risk-free cancellation for 30 days. with this guarantee, you can cancel at any time during the first 30 days and get a full refund. a commitment to your blog and yourself. the longer-term plan locks in the lowest rate and saves you the most money in the long-term. this represents a commitment you’re making to make this thing work and see it through! after you select your package, you’ll see some additional add-ons for your package. you don’t need any of these except privacy protection. note* if you don’t see this option, you’ll be able to add it later in your settings. you will not see this option if you chose to create your domain name later. make sure to uncheck all other boxes except privacy protection. while domain privacy protection is optional, we recommend it because it keeps your personal details confidential. when you purchase a domain name through any hosting company, your contact information is added to the public record for your domain. you must pay for domain privacy protection to keep this information hidden. otherwise, scammers and other solicitors will start calling and emailing you trying to sell you stuff! lastly, just add your credit card information and check the box to agree to their terms of service, privacy policy, and cancellation policy click the green button to submit and you’re done! congratulations! you now own your very own blog and hosting plan! that wasn’t too painful, right!? you will next be asked to create a password for your account. when you’re finished, make sure to head over to our how to start a blog post to get some additional help with choosing a theme and designing your blog! alex and lauren about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. about alex and lauren about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. read this next reader interactions primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. get started now: footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions