services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing bluleadz inbound marketing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply close services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply bz privacy policy updated june 8, 2018 here at bluleadz (bz), we are committed to protecting your privacy and conducting our business in accordance with privacy principles that ensure the confidentiality of personally identifiable information (pii) is protected and maintained. this privacy policy applies to bz’s website and governs our data collection, processing, and usage practices. it also describes your choices regarding use, access, and correction of your pii. while not necessarily applicable to us, our privacy policy reflects our intent to comply with the 2018 eu general data protection regulation (gdpr) and uk data protection act (dpa) standards, with respect to pii gathered through our website, www.bluleadz.com. by using our website, you agree to be bound by this policy. if you are not satisfied by the data practices described here, you should not use our website. we reserve the right to update this privacy policy periodically. we will alert you to material changes when we are required to do so by applicable law. you can see when this privacy policy was last updated by checking the date at the top of this page. we also encourage you to review this policy periodically. if you have any questions about this privacy policy or how we handle the information you provide us, please contact us by email at info@bluleadz.com or by mail at: 3030 n. rocky point dr. w. suite 600 tampa, florida 33607 this privacy policy covers the following topics: personally identifiable information (pii) we collect personally identifiable information (pii) and legitimate interest cookies other automatically-gathered information how we use personally identifiable information (pii) we collect third parties legally required releases of information security of your personally identifiable information (pii) eu/uk data (gdpr/dpa data subject rights) exercising your data subject rights withdrawing consent external links business transfers international data transfers information about children contact us personally identifiable information (pii) we collect personally identifiable information (pii) refers to any information that you voluntarily submit to bz and that identifies you personally. this information allows bz to communicate with you directly. examples include, but are not limited to, your name, postal addresses, valid email addresses, or other addresses at which you receive communications. bz may also request demographic information including, but not limited to, your job title, job function, and corporate title. pii can also include information about any transactions, both free and paid, that you enter into on the website and information about you that is available on the internet, such as from facebook, linkedin, twitter, and google, or publicly available information that we acquire from service providers. generally, you will have control over the amount and type of information you provide to us when using our website. if we ask you to provide pii to comply with a legal requirement, we will make this clear at the relevant time and advise you whether or not the disclosure of your pii is mandatory or not (as well as the consequences for non-disclosure). you are free to explore our website without providing any pii about yourself. we collect pii when you request information about our services; interact with our website forms/bots or customer service representatives; request delivery of white papers, ebooks, or other information; schedule an event; or otherwise voluntarily provide such information through our website. you can always opt not to disclose pii to bz. however, some information may be needed to use our services. personally identifiable information (pii) and legitimate interest bz may process pii or use it to communicate with you on the basis that doing so is necessary to achieve a legitimate interest, either to you or to us. where we use your pii on this basis, we do so after having given careful consideration to: whether the same objective could be achieved through other means; whether processing (or not processing) might cause you harm; whether you would expect us to process your data, and whether you would consider it reasonable to do so. for example, bz may process your data or communicate with you for any of the following purposes: advertising and marketing to you, including sending promotional communications, targeting advertising, and presenting you relevant offers based on information you provided or in our prior dealings; operating our business, which includes analyzing our performance, meeting our legal obligations, developing our workforce, and doing research; record-keeping for the proper and necessary administration of our business; responding to customer complaints or service requests; responding to unsolicited communications from you to which we believe you would expect a response; protecting and asserting the legal rights of any party; insuring against or obtaining professional advice that is required to manage business risk; protecting your interests where we believe we have a duty to do so. we will continue to use this information for this purpose until the legitimate interest no longer exists or such use is not necessary to achieve the legitimate interest. cookies like many other websites, we use “cookies.” a cookie is a small piece of data stored on your computer or mobile device by your web browser. we use cookies to identify the areas of our website that you have visited. we also use cookies to enhance your online experience by eliminating the need to log-in multiple times for specific content. finally, we may use cookies to personalize the content that you see on our website or to customize marketing and other information we provide to you. most web browsers can be set to disable the use of cookies, and our website contains buttons that allow you to opt-in and opt-out to various types of communications from us. however, if you disable or do not opt-in to our use of cookies, you may not be able to access features on our website correctly or not at all. other automatically-gathered information we may automatically record information when you visit our website, including the url, ip address, browser type and language, and the date and time of your visit. we use this information to analyze trends among our users to help improve our website or customize communications and information that you receive from us. if combined with other information we know about you from previous visits, the data possibly could be used to identify you personally, even if you are not signed in to our website. how we use personally identifiable information (pii) we collect we use the pii we collect only in compliance with this privacy policy. in addition to uses identified elsewhere in this privacy policy, we may use your pii: to improve your browsing experience by personalizing and administering the website; identify and authenticate users; to facilitate transactions; to contact you by phone or email; to send information or content to you which we think may be of interest to you by post, email, or other means and send you marketing communications relating to our business; to promote use of our services to you and share promotional and information content with you in accordance with your communication preferences; to provide other companies with statistical information about our users—but this information will not be used to identify any individual user; for purposes made clear to you at the time you submit your information, such as fulfilling a request for a consultation or providing access to content you have requested; to send information to you regarding changes to our privacy policy or other legal agreements; to meet legal requirements. third parties we may share your information with third-party vendors, consultants, and other service providers we employ to perform tasks on our behalf. we utilize google analytics to better understand your use of websites and services. google’s ability to use and share information collected by google analytics about your use of websites is restricted by the google analytics terms of use and the google privacy policy. we also use hubspot to provide crm services for our sales and marketing. hubspot collects pii via bz’s website on bz’s behalf, including your name and email address. hubspot processes the data collected only to allow bz access to and use of that information. hubspot does not share that information with any other entity. hubspot’s privacy policy is available here. legally required releases of information we may be legally required to disclose your pii, if such disclosure is (1) required by subpoena, law, or other legal process; (2) necessary to assist law enforcement officials or government enforcement agencies; (3) necessary to investigate violations of or otherwise enforce our legal terms; (4) necessary to protect us from legal action or claims from third parties including you; and/or (5) necessary to protect the legal rights, personal/real property, or personal safety of our company, customers, third party partners, employees, and affiliates. security of your personally identifiable information (pii) we utilize a variety of security technologies and procedures to protect your pii from unauthorized access, use, and/or disclosure. no method of transmission over the internet is 100% secure and therefore bz cannot guarantee absolute security of your pii. bz strives to maintain a system that reasonably safeguards pii using appropriate physical, technical, and organizational measures. eu/uk data (gdpr/dpa data subject rights) bz is committed to protecting the information you provide us, as per the general data protection regulation (gdpr) and data protection act of 2018. in certain circumstances, you have the following rights under the aforementioned data protection laws in relation to your pii: request access to your pii (“data subject access request”). this enables you to receive a copy of the pii bz holds about you and to check that bz is lawfully processing it. request correction of any incomplete or inaccurate data collected by bz. bz may need to verify the accuracy of the new data provided. request erasure of pii. this enables you to ask bz to delete or remove pii where there is no good reason for bz to continue processing it, where you have successfully exercised your right to object to processing (see below), where bz may have processed your pii unlawfully, or where bz must erase your pii in compliance with local law. bz may be unable to comply with your request for specific legal reasons which will be notified to you at the time of your request. object to the gathering of your pii where bz is relying on a legitimate interest (or those of a third party) and there is something about your particular situation which makes you want to object to gathering on this ground as you feel it impacts your fundamental rights and freedoms. you also have the right to object where bz is gathering your pii for direct marketing purposes. in some cases, bz may demonstrate that it has compelling legitimate grounds to gather your pii which override your rights and freedoms. request restriction of gathering your pii. this enables you to ask bz to suspend the gathering of your personal data in the following scenarios: (1) if you want bz to establish the data’s accuracy; (2) where bz’s use of the data is unlawful but you do not want bz to erase it; (3) where you need bz to hold the data even if bz no longer requires it as you need it to establish, exercise, or defend legal claims; or (4) you have objected to bz’s use of your data but bz needs to verify whether it has overriding legitimate grounds to use it. request the transfer of your pii to you or to a third party. bz will provide to you, or a third party you have chosen, your pii in a structured, commonly used, machine-readable format. note that this right only applies to automated information which you initially provided consent for bz to use or where bz used the information to perform a contract with you. withdraw consent at any time where bz is relying on consent to gather your pii. however, this will not affect the lawfulness of any gathering carried out before you withdraw your consent. if you withdraw your consent, bz may not be able to provide certain products or services to you. bz will advise you if this is the case at the time you withdraw your consent. when we receive any request to access, edit, or delete pii, we will first take reasonable steps to verify your identity before granting you access or otherwise taking any action. this is important to safeguard your information. exercising your data subject rights you have the right to access, review, update, rectify, and delete any pii that bz holds about you, or exercise any other data subject rights available to you under applicable data protection laws. in order to exercise your data subject rights, you can submit a request via info@bluleadz.com. our privacy team will review any request and respond within a reasonable time. please note that we may still use any aggregated and de-identified pii that does not identify any individual. bz will also retain any pii to the extent necessary to comply with bz’s legal obligations, resolve disputes, and enforce bz’s agreements, as outline in this privacy policy. withdrawing consent if bz is relying on your consent for certain activities, you have the right to withdraw your consent at any time and opt out of receiving promotional or marketing communications from bz by using the unsubscribe link in email communications or contacting bz at info@bluleadz.com . if you have any account for our services, bz will still send you non-promotional communications, like service-related emails. external links our website provides links to other websites. we do not control, and are not responsible for, and this privacy policy does not apply to, the content or privacy practices of these other websites. our provision of such links does not constitute our endorsement of these other websites, their content, their owners, or their practices. business transfers if our business is acquired or merges, in whole or in part, with another business, we retain the right to transfer your pii to the new business. the new business would retain the right to use your pii according to the terms of this privacy policy, as updated or changed by the new business, subject to applicable law. you will have the opportunity to opt-out of any such transfer if we determine that the new business has privacy policies that differ materially from ours or that do not comply with applicable laws. international data transfers pii you submit on our website or through our services is sent to the united states and will be primarily processed by us in the united states. if you choose to use our website or services from regions outside the united states that have laws governing data collection and use that differ from u.s. law, you acknowledge and agree that you are transferring pii outside of that region to the united states and, by providing such information, you consent to the use of your pii as identified in this privacy policy and the transfer of your personal data to the united states. information about children we do not knowingly collect pii about children under the age of 16. if we learn that we have collected pii from a child under age 16, we will delete that information as quickly as possible. if you believe a child under age 16 may have provided us pii or we have acquired such information unknowingly, please contact us immediately at info@bluleadz.com so we may delete the information. contact us if you have any questions, concerns, or suggestions regarding our privacy policy, please contact us at info@bluleadz.com. services marketing design sales pricing company about us customer testimonials careers contact resources blog resources the inbound glossary are you lost? (866) 995-8720 3030 n. rocky point dr. w. suite 600 tampa, florida 33607 facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube messenger © 2020 bluleadz, all rights reserved. privacy policy.