follow board game remix kit board game remix kit the board game remix kit is a collection of games that you can play using the boards and pieces from games you might already own: trivial pursuit, monopoly, cluedo (clue to americans) and scrabble. a few of the games also use pens, paper and other household objects. there are 26 different suggestions for ways to play, plus another four in the valentine's day expansion. the simplest ideas are just tweaks to the original games, to make them differently fun: a more intensely strategic scrabble, a faster trivial pursuit. then there are the new games: use lead piping to defend yourself from zombies in the cluedo mansion; listen to the answer from a trivial pursuit card, and compete to come up with the most plausible question. finally there are mash-ups, combining pieces from more than one game: auction off individual scrabble tiles with your monopoly money; solve a murder mystery with scrabble tile anagrams. the board game remix kit came out as an app and a set of cards in 2010, developed by the company hide&seek (which closed at the start of 2014). we're putting the cards online for free now, in march 2020, in the hope that some of the game ideas might be useful for people who are staying inside due to quarantine, lockdown or social distancing. (if you enjoy the kit and can afford it, please consider a donation to the world health organisation's covid-19 response fund.) the board game remix kit was designed and written by alex fleetwood, holly gramazio, james wallis and kevan davis; illustrated and laid out by telegramme studio; produced by kim plowright and peter j. law plus andrew birley, sophie sampson and sandra conway; edited by margaret robertson and sandra conway; turned into a now-defunct app by michael dales; and tested by dozens of helpful players. the board game remix kit turn the classic boardgames you've got into new games you'll love board game remix kit bgrk: valentine edition turns the classic board games you've got into new games about love board game remix kit itch.io