× edition united states united states asia global instagram twitter youtube facebook read next: warner music group joins musicares’ coronavirus relief fund variety intelligence platform got a news tip? newsletters subscribe to variety login variety.com menu film tv music tech theater real estate awards video lifestyle v500 subscribe today! login variety intelligence platform home music news march 26, 2020 10:01pm pt bob dylan releases 17-minute song about jfk assassination the surprise track, which dylan said only was recorded "a while back," comes eight years after his last album of original material. by chris willman chris willman music writer @https://twitter.com/chriswillman follow chris's most recent stories country star joe diffie tests positive for coronavirus elvis costello, dierks bentley, ingrid andress, lumineers lead today’s music live-streams bob dylan releases 17-minute song about jfk assassination view all facebook twitter reddit email show more sharing options linkedin whatsapp print pin it tumblr credit: vincent/ap/rex/shutterstock for years, bob dylan fans have spoken in a sort of hushed awe about the longest song he ever released, “highlands,” an album side-length 1997 track that ran 16 minutes and 31 seconds. now, 23 years later, he’s slightly outdone himself. as the clock struck midnight on the east coast friday morning, dylan released a new song, “murder most foul,” that has a running time just seconds shy of the 17-minute mark — and it’s an epic free association on the 1963 assassination of president john f. kennedy. little information was given about the surprise track, except for a brief statement from dylan himself: “greetings to my fans and followers with gratitude for all your support and loyalty over the years. “this is an unreleased song we recorded a while back that you might find interesting. “stay safe, stay observant and may god be with you. “bob dylan” a dylan representative said the statement was all the information they would be releasing about the song, so whether “a while back” means a matter of months or many years remains a mystery. dylan’s tender vocal tone — a trademark of his more recent shows and recordings — and elements of the song’s minimal bed of violin, piano and light percussion quickly had hardcore fans guesstimating that the tune might actually be of fairly recent vintage. his last album of original material, “tempest,” came out in 2012, although he has released three sets of his interpretations of songs from the great american songbook in-between, the last of which was the triple-album “triplicate” three years ago. rumors have been rampant that this year dylan might be releasing his first album of self-penned songs in eight years, but there’s been no confirmation of that. the lyrics of the monumental track will fascinate dylanologists who’ve waited years for something fresh to dissect, since there’s literally half an album’s worth of lyrical material just in one track here. in verses that proceed freely enough that it’s not always easy to break them down into separate stanzas, the lyrics often speak extremely literally of the kennedy assassination, with a bent toward conspiratorial takes on the event. but as the song goes along it breaks more freely into a pop-culture fantasia. dylan frequently references or riffs on 1960s events, catchphrases or titles, with lines that include: “the beatles are coming, they’e gonna hold your hand” (the arrival of the fab four in america in early 1964 is regarded by some as a tonic to the lingering depression from the assassination); “ferry cross the mersey and go for the throat” (only part of which is a nod to gerry and the pacemakers); “tommy can you hear me, i’m the acid queen,” and “i’m going to woodstock, it’s the aquarian age / then i’ll go to altamont and stand near the stage.” dylan doesn’t have his head entirely in the ’60s: “frankly miss scarlett, i don’t give a damn” also comes up for a citation. and eventually, so do — moving into the ’70s, and beyond and back — lindsey buckingham and stevie nicks, don henley and glenn frey, the allman brothers band’s dickey betts, “only the good die young, “nightmare on elm street,” buster keaton, harold lloyd, art pepper, oscar peterson, stan getz, “charlie parker and all that junk,” nat king cole, marilyn monroe, john lee hooker, wolfman jack, patsy cline, houdini, “wake up little suzy,” “let the good times roll,” “the old rugged cross,” “down in the boondocks,” “the merchant of venice,” “memphis in june,” “moonlight sonata,” “play misty for me,” “lonely at the top” and “lonely are the brave.” occasionally, dylan directly marries his pop-culture references and the assassination, as when he sings, “you got me dizzy miss lizzy, you fill me with lead.” or: “what’s new pussycat, what’d i say / i said the soul of a nation been torn away.” when it comes to the actual assassination, dylan doesn’t skimp on the details: “they blew off his head while he was still in the car,” he sings in the first stanza. later on, he traces the car’s frantic exit away from dealey plaza in dallas, even taking the first-person point of view of the deceased kennedy: “riding in the backseat next to my wife / and it’s straight on into the afterlife / i’m leaning to the left i got my head in her lap…” he gets specific about details following the death, too — like “johnson sworn in at 2:38.” he also takes the point of view of kennedys assailant — or, in his view, assailants — singing provocative lines like, “we’ve already got someone here to take your place,” or, of kennedy’s brothers, “we’ll get them as well.” dylan’s fascination with the kennedy assassination is nothing new — it dates back to 1963. at least, robert shelton’s biography, “bob dylan: no direction home,” recounts an incident three months after the killing when the singer and his fellow travelers took a detour to dealey plaza and “took the station wagon along kennedy’s path,” “appraised the theory that oswald acted alone” and “started acting like a detective.” in the song’s view, the killing of jfk, “right there in front of everyone’s eyes,” is the “greatest magic trick” — and one he presumably thinks has some relevance in 2020. leave a reply73 bob dylan want to read more articles like this one? subscribe to variety today. javascript is required to load the comments. loading comments... most viewed fox business anchor trish regan parts ways with network johnny depp allowed to pursue defamation suit against amber heard disneyland and walt disney world now indefinitely closed amid coronavirus outbreak must read film corona chronicles: personal stories from hollywood film hollywood’s biggest movies stuck in limbo as start dates remain uncertain biz china moves to re-shutter all cinemas nationwide sign up for daily insider newsletter please fill out this field with valid email address. sign up more music tv news roundup: hulu releases 'future man' final season trailer (watch) in today’s tv news roundup, hulu released a trailer for the third and final season of “future man,” and fox and iheartradio’s upcoming concert special added camila cabello, dave grohl, h.e.r. and sam smith to its lineup. first looks hulu has released a trailer for the third and final season of “future man.” as the [...] 4 mins ago youtube 'stay home #withme' psa campaign taps emma chamberlain, dolan twins, j balvin, venus williams and more youtube is launching a global campaign with top creators, music artists and celebs urging people to stay home during the covid-19 pandemic — and watch youtube videos. the video platform has been promoting the hashtag #stayhome for the past several weeks. now youtube has lined up several big influencers and celebrities to promote the message [...] 1 hour ago weezer debuts online video game as throwback to simpler times -- and album promo eight-bit diehards, get your thumbs ready: pop rock darlings weezer have launched a nostalgia-heavy online side-scrolling action game, playable via web browsers. the “the end of the game” game has users playing as one of the band’s four members and jumping and shooting their way in a (surprisingly difficult) boss fight against an oversized, beanie-clad [...] 1 hour ago 'live from out there' livestream, which raised $100,000 for coronavirus relief, continues this weekend last week, 11e1even group, in conjunction with nugs.tv and sweet relief musicians fund, raised $100,000 for coronavirus relief with announced their new digital content series, “live from out there.” the festival continues this weekend with the lineup in the schedule below. “i’m seeing this just like any curated channel,” said ben baruch, owner of 11e1even group. “this [...] 2 hours ago country star joe diffie tests positive for coronavirus joe diffie has become the first country star to go public with a coronavirus diagnosis, announcing that he contracted the disease in a message to fans friday. the singer did not reveal whether he is currently hospitalized. “i am under the care of medical professionals and currently receiving treatment,” diffie, 61, said in his statement. [...] 2 hours ago a2im’s indie week and libera awards go virtual for 2020 in yet another sign of the times, the american association of independent music (a2im) today announced that the 2020 installment of its indie week conference — the world’s biggest gathering point specifically for the independent music community — is moving online this year, obviously due to the coronavirus pandemic. the event, which also includes the [...] 2 hours ago warner music group joins musicares’ coronavirus relief fund warner music group has made a donation to musicares covid-19 relief fund launched last week, ceo steve cooper said in a memo to the company’s staff. “we’re backing the brave efforts of medical professionals around the world, as well as helping the musicians hurt the most by this crisis,” he wrote. “we’re making donations to heart [...] 4 hours ago more from our brands indiewire ‘there’s something in the water’ review: ellen page’s urgent netflix documentary confronts environmental racism 6 hours ago hollywoodlife olivia culpo shows off her rock-hard abs while revealing her classic ‘quarantine outfit’ 7 hours ago bgr samsung may have accidentally leaked a new, all-screen phone 7 hours ago wwd cfda cancels resort, postpones men’s shows 6 hours ago spy ranking the 10 best portable air conditioners to keep you cool 7 hours ago variety about us careers variety screening series variety insight vscore live media summits legal privacy policy terms of use california privacy rights adchoices privacy preferences do not sell my personal information customer service variety intelligence platform variety premier variety archives variety print contact us account login subscribe help newsletters connect instagram twitter youtube facebook the business of entertainment subscribe today © copyright 2020 variety media, llc, a subsidiary of penske business media, llc. variety and the flying v logos are trademarks of variety media, llc. powered by wordpress.com vip have a tip? let us know variety.com close menu variety intelligence platform film news reviews podcasts box office events columns tv news reviews podcasts recaps events pilot scorecard columns music news new music album reviews concert reviews awards news in the running artisans features columns video video trailers cover shoots – behind the scenes actors on actors power of women events artisans toronto dirt real estate news photos lifestyle digital news features global more theater obituaries politics photos podcasts scene voices live media summits vscore variety insight variety archives variety500 industry executives regional editions united states asia global variety mobile logo premier logo created with sketch. access exclusive content subscribe today! login follow us instagram twitter youtube facebook alerts & newsletters please fill out this field with valid email address. sign up advertise about tips contact us pmc © 2020 penske media corporation close menu ad