australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video entertainment 03/27/2020 14:44 edt bob dylan responds to coronavirus with song about jfk assassination the new tune, "murder most foul," also references the beatles, stevie nicks, nat king cole, queen and so many more artists. by david moye, huffpost us like many musicians, bob dylan responded to the coronavirus outbreak by releasing new music. however, the legendary songwriter is probably the only artist whose new song is focused on the 1963 assassination of president john f. kennedy. on thursday night, dylan released his first original tune in eight years ― “murder most foul,” a 17-minute epic that focuses on the killing of kennedy. according to dylan’s tweet, the song was recorded a while back, but variety noted that could mean “a matter of months or many years.” greetings to my fans and followers with gratitude for all your support and loyalty across the years. this is an unreleased song we recorded a while back that you might find interesting. stay safe, stay observant and may god be with you. bob dylanhttps://t.co/ujne4x64bb — bobdylan.com (@bobdylan) march 27, 2020 the song doesn’t sugarcoat things, mentioning that “they blew off his head while he was still in the car” in the first stanza. dylan also puts himself in kennedy’s mind in some verses: riding in the backseat next to my wife / and it’s straight on into the afterlife / i’m leaning to the left i got my head in her lap … but “murder most foul” isn’t only about ― to quote billy joel’s “we didn’t start the fire” ― “jfk / blown away / what else do i have to say?” npr noticed references to at least 73 other songs in the ballad. slate pointed out hat tips to the beatles, stevie nicks, nat king cole and even queen. although many people are speculating the new song means a new dylan album may be released soon, his people would not confirm anything to that effect, according to variety. take a listen for yourself and let us know what you think in the comments. photo gallery bob dylan through the years see gallery bob dylan responds to coronavirus with song about jfk assassination 1 / 80 bob dylan through the years 1 / 80 suggest a correction david moye reporter, huffpost more: music coronavirus bob dylan murder most foul assassination of john f. kennedy trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.