home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog a bachelorette party & building my shoulders march 25, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment happy tuesday everyone!! i hope everyone's having a great start to their week. it's march 25th and it's snowing here...whaaaaaaaaaaat? so strange and i don't like it one bit. i hope you're ready for the most random post in the world. it's a collection of what i've been up to lately and what clothes i've been digging lately too :) check out this new outfit that i got … [read more...] my compound leg day workout february 28, 2014 by erin weiss 1 comment today is good old leg day over here. leg day used to be my favorite..now i have a love/hate relationship with it. i always switch up which workout day is my favorite, depending on which body part i want to work the most on and lately it's been my shoulders. legs are so important to train though because they contain some of the biggest muscle groups and will burn the most … [read more...] what exercises should i do first when working out? october 7, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i get asked often how i build my workouts. what exercises should i do first? what muscle group should i train first? what's the biggest muscle? what should i focus on the most? what's a good workout split? (hint: hover over this image to pin it to pinterest for a quick reminder later!) when strength training, start with your biggest muscle groups. here are a few of your … [read more...] 2013 olympia results & my weekend recap september 30, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment here we go! it's the start to another week. time to set new goals and kick some butt this week! this past weekend went by fast. i went to the gym friday after work and then spent the rest of the night running around shopping. i am not really a fan of shopping but i needed to get some new jeans. i always end up getting express jeans because they are one of the few stores … [read more...] country concert, cravings and a crazy doberman september 24, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment this past weekend was supposed to be a total relaxation...get $*!t done type of weekend. friday night was a success. i hit the gym after work and was productive all friday night. saturday came around and somehow i got convinced to go to the jason aldean concert. i love country concerts so it was pretty hard to pass up. he played in noblesville, in and it was a … [read more...] what to eat post workout september 23, 2013 by erin weiss 4 comments what to eat post workout i get asked this question quite a bit so i figured i'd post about it. have you ever wondered what you should be eating immediately following a workout in order to maximize your results? i just posted this to my facebook page but wanted to mention it here as well.... "your first meal after your workout is the most important. make the most of it … [read more...] meet my new house! september 20, 2013 by erin weiss 2 comments last night was a big day for me. i bought an investment property! how cute is this little house??? i plan on buying it and then renting it out. i'm so excited :) all this searching finally paid off. now let's just hope i can close on the house with no issues! we went out last night to celebrate a little. we ate at texas roadhouse and then had a couple … [read more...] weight lifting myths – your questions answered august 23, 2013 by erin weiss 3 comments i can't even count the amount of times i've heard women in the locker room or at work telling each other completely crazy things they have heard about working out and how the body works. most of this is completely wrong and these myths need to be addressed! the folks at the daily burn have helped us to explain the truth behind some of these common weight room myths. 1. … [read more...] clutch cut day 4 june 24, 2013 by erin weiss 3 comments today was day 4 of ashley conrad's 21 day clutch cut program on bodybuilding.com. it was my second full body lift day of the program. i was still a little sore from friday's lift but nothing too bad. i was ready to rock and roll as soon as the clock hit 4pm. i rushed out of work and it was finally gym thirty!!! on the schedule today was the same workout … [read more...] clutch cut – day 1 june 21, 2013 by erin weiss 4 comments clutch cut day 1 hey guys!! so i started ashley conrad's 21 day clutch cut program from bodybuilding.com today!!! so excited about this program. ashley trains a lot of celebrities such as bradley cooper, kate hudson and p. diddy! how cool!!! here's a picture of my new trainer, ashley conrad :) what a bad-ass! a little about the program, according to … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in