london, 27 march, 2020 global (en) 中国 wellness is using 'immunity' messaging to sell intelligence what will become of fashion after the pandemic? opinion for fashion magazines, it's crunch time intelligence explore articles, resources and online learning bof professional the business of fashion latest professional professional beauty careers education live events community fashion week podcasts video coronavirus live blog: e-commerce under threat, luxury faces huge losses to launch or not to launch? that is the question for dtc brands could coronavirus spark a sustainable fashion awakening? which retailers have been hit hardest by the covid-19 crash? for influencers, affiliate revenue is next to disappear news & analysis london and paris men’s and couture fashion weeks cancelled, milan men’s week postponed 27 march 2020 • by chantal fernandez 27 march 2020 • by chantal fernandez the covid-19 epidemic is upending fashion weeks around the world. share comment news & analysis coronavirus live blog: e-commerce under threat, luxury faces huge losses 12 march 2020 • by bof team 12 march 2020 • by bof team as the economic crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic stretches on, brands are facing a tough reality. follow our live blog for continuous updates. share comment sponsored feature not just a label’s strategy to support emerging designers recognising the commercial potential of a global creative class of emerging designers, njal positions its community as an international cloud solution for creative needs, and has tailored a membership programme to equip designers with the tools they need today. share comment podcasts the bof podcast: li edelkoort says the coronavirus is a representation of our conscience in the latest special edition of the bof podcast, the dutch trend forecaster says that the coronavirus pandemic is bringing to light what is wrong with society, teaching us to slow down and to change our ways. share comment bof professional exclusive should fashion skip a season? bof lays out the risks and rewards of not producing the autumn/winter 2020 collections. share comment bof professional exclusive the coronavirus pandemic is hitting hands-on beauty service workers and businesses particularly hard hair salons, nail salons, aesthetic establishments and their employees face a unique set of challenges as these high-touch businesses are shut down indefinitely. share comment news & analysis next shutters e-commerce indefinitely due to coronavirus the british retailer previously said it could feasibly sustain a hit of more than £1 billion ($1.2 billion), or 25 percent of annual sales. share comment daily digest fashion news from around the web 1 the apparel industry had an inventory problem before coronavirus. what now? universal recommendations are hard to come by for 'nonessential' retailers and wholesalers. retail dive 2 can a greener, fairer fashion industry emerge from crisis? the best we can hope for the fashion industry is a rebirth that puts people and planet ahead of profits. the guardian 3 kroger, walmart have already hired tens of thousands of new employees they shortened their hiring processes and received applications from workers in hard-hit industries. cnbc 4 qvc: quarantine, value, convenience tv shopping remains an essential american service. the new york times 5 autopsy of the experience economy this is a memo we started writing months ago. it was meant to be a sort of elegy to the economic and cultural cycle in which we were living. nemesis view daily digest coronavirus live blog: e-commerce under threat, luxury faces huge losses coronavirus live blog: e-commerce under threat, luxury faces huge losses to launch or not to launch? that is the question for dtc brands to launch or not to launch? that is the question for dtc brands could coronavirus spark a sustainable fashion awakening? could coronavirus spark a sustainable fashion awakening? which retailers have been hit hardest by the covid-19 crash? which retailers have been hit hardest by the covid-19 crash? for influencers, affiliate revenue is next to disappear for influencers, affiliate revenue is next to disappear news & analysis london and paris men’s and couture fashion weeks cancelled, milan men’s week postponed 27 march 2020 • by chantal fernandez the covid-19 epidemic is upending fashion weeks around the world. share comment news & analysis coronavirus live blog: e-commerce under threat, luxury faces huge losses 12 march 2020 • by bof team as the economic crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic stretches on, brands are facing a tough reality. follow our live blog for continuous updates. share comment latest news next shutters e-commerce indefinitely due to coronavirus 27 march 2020 armani pivots to produce medical overalls 26 march 2020 uk retail results show stagnant sales for february 26 march 2020 smcp warns of 20% sales drop due to coronavirus 25 march 2020 nike's sales beat estimates despite coronavirus disruption 25 march 2020 report: neiman marcus in bankruptcy talks with lenders 24 march 2020 puma sets short-time work for 1,400 employees 24 march 2020 unilever to protect workers’ pay for up to 3 months 24 march 2020 hugo boss ceo mark langer to exit 23 march 2020 explore latest news sponsored feature not just a label’s strategy to support emerging designers 26 march 2020 • by bof team share comment podcasts the bof podcast: li edelkoort says the coronavirus is a representation of our conscience 27 march 2020 • by bof team 27 march 2020 • by bof team in the latest special edition of the bof podcast, the dutch trend forecaster says that the coronavirus pandemic is bringing to light what is wrong with society, teaching us to slow down and to change our ways. share comment bof professional exclusive should fashion skip a season? 27 march 2020 • by bof team share comment bof professional exclusive the coronavirus pandemic is hitting hands-on beauty service workers and businesses particularly hard 27 march 2020 • by cheryl wischhover share comment news & analysis next shutters e-commerce indefinitely due to coronavirus 27 march 2020 • by reuters 27 march 2020 • by reuters the british retailer previously said it could feasibly sustain a hit of more than £1 billion ($1.2 billion), or 25 percent of annual sales. share comment daily digest fashion news from around the web 1 the apparel industry had an inventory problem before coronavirus. what now? universal recommendations are hard to come by for 'nonessential' retailers and wholesalers. retail dive 2 can a greener, fairer fashion industry emerge from crisis? the best we can hope for the fashion industry is a rebirth that puts people and planet ahead of profits. the guardian 3 kroger, walmart have already hired tens of thousands of new employees they shortened their hiring processes and received applications from workers in hard-hit industries. cnbc 4 qvc: quarantine, value, convenience tv shopping remains an essential american service. the new york times 5 autopsy of the experience economy this is a memo we started writing months ago. it was meant to be a sort of elegy to the economic and cultural cycle in which we were living. nemesis view daily digest trending on bof 1 kering to provide 3 million surgical masks to france, gucci prepping to make 1.1 million for italy 2 a guide to protecting your business during coronavirus 3 global stories from a month that changed fashion forever 4 no company will survive coronavirus alone 5 rental and resale were supposed to be the future. could coronavirus change that? 6 what will become of fashion when the epidemic is over? 7 lvmh to supply france with 40 million surgical masks to tackle shortage 8 for fashion magazines, it's crunch time 9 the end of the (fashion) world as we know it 10 for influencers, affiliate revenue is next to disappear 1 #boflive wrap-up: protecting your business during coronavirus 2 the bof podcast: vogue italia editor-in-chief on lessons learned in isolation 3 television's power to launch fashion brands remains unproven 4 rental and resale were supposed to be the future. could coronavirus change that? 5 us apparel makers to churn out masks for healthcare workers 6 lvmh to supply france with 40 million surgical masks to tackle shortage 7 the best jobs on bof careers 8 what will become of fashion when the epidemic is over? 9 to launch or not to launch? for new direct-to-consumer brands, that is the big question. 10 not just a label’s strategy to support emerging designers 1 the end of the (fashion) world as we know it 2 lvmh to supply france with 40 million surgical masks to tackle shortage 3 how fashion's freelancers are adapting to the new normal 4 no company will survive coronavirus alone 5 is this online shopping's moment to shine? 6 #boflive wrap-up: protecting your business during coronavirus 7 the bof podcast: vogue italia editor-in-chief on lessons learned in isolation 8 television's power to launch fashion brands remains unproven 9 rental and resale were supposed to be the future. could coronavirus change that? 10 us apparel makers to churn out masks for healthcare workers 2 march 2020 a creative journey at tapestry 9 december 2019 the 5g hype: what's the signal in the noise? 6 december 2019 watch the best of this year's voices subscribe to bof on youtube this week’s top reads 1 kering to provide 3 million surgical masks to france, gucci prepping to make 1.1 million for italy 2 a guide to protecting your business during coronavirus 3 global stories from a month that changed fashion forever 4 no company will survive coronavirus alone 5 rental and resale were supposed to be the future. could coronavirus change that? 6 what will become of fashion when the epidemic is over? 7 lvmh to supply france with 40 million surgical masks to tackle shortage 8 for fashion magazines, it's crunch time 9 the end of the (fashion) world as we know it 10 for influencers, affiliate revenue is next to disappear about about us memberships newsletters press masthead contact work with us contributors, tips & stories media & press requests feedback join bof careers media advertising & sponsorship connect with bof site map © 2020 the business of fashion. all rights reserved. for more information read our terms & conditions and privacy policy.