transforming our world through nonviolent action 2019: year in review sft store search for: our work campaigns commemorative dates trainings and conferences get involved start a chapter intern/volunteer events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern action kit strategic planning intro to direct action latest updates in the news press advisories/releases about staff our history about tibet financials support sft events sft store donate ways to support events book launch and research talk – resistance and unity book launch and research talk – resistance and unity fri, jan 31, 2020 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm tibet house us facebook event page this event has passed. how can telling a history of resistance be part of a movement for unity? in exile, his holiness the dalai lama asked elders to document history by sharing their experiences in writing. makchi shangri lhagyal, a commander in the chushi gangdrug resistance army, took his leader’s words to heart. on his deathbed, he narrated his life story and the fight for tibet to his children. after years of research and writing, his family now presents his biography together with a history of the chinese invasion of tibet. co-authored by tashi gelek, tashi dhondup, and dorjee damdul, and edited by professor carole mcgranahan, resistance and unity: the chinese invasion, makchi shangri lhagyal, and a history of tibet (1947-1959) is a true labor of love and contribution to the tibetan cause. please join us for the nyc launch of this book with a joint presentation on the book and the ongoing tibetan resistance by dorjee damdul and carole mcgranahan. tenzin dorjee will be the host/mc. friday, january 31st, 7-9 pm | free and open to the public/registration not required. co-sponsors: the andrug family foundation, dhokham chushi gangdruk, students for free tibet, and tibetan youth congress. go to following link for the interview (in tibetan) with the author – voa tibetan: https://www.facebook.com/voatibetan/videos/560023098061450/ ———————————————————————————————————————- dorjee damdul is a reporter at radio free asia (rfa) tibetan language service in washington, dc. carole mcgranahan is professor of anthropology, history, and tibetan studies at the university of colorado. she is the author of arrested histories: tibet, the cia, and memories of a forgotten war (duke university press, 2010) students for a free tibet (sft) works in solidarity with the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom and independence. we are a chapter-based network of young people and activists around the world. through education, grassroots organizing, and nonviolent direct action, we campaign for tibetans’ fundamental right to political freedom. join sft's online action network: get emails, updates & action items. sign up! 602 east 14th street, 2nd floor new york, ny 10009 usa (212) 358-0071 info@studentsforafreetibet.org intern with us we are always looking for help. if you are talented and passionate about human rights and tibet then we want to hear from you! intern / volunteer © 2020 students for a free tibet ×