menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login books & things course recreate your life story a fun, creative course blending self-help and film that gives you the tools to let go of the past so you can feel free, happy, and unlimited in the present—and confident about creating the future. more info gear every design is available in: tee, v-neck, tank top, hoodie, sweatshirt, and kids shirt, with multiple colors and sizes. be here now beautiful things can grow choose peace good vibes only just breathe let’s go on an adventure peace love music you’re doing better than you think phone cases peace love music iphone case $19.95 select options you’re doing better than you think iphone case $19.95 select options let’s go on an adventure iphone case $19.95 select options see all 8 cases books tiny buddha's worry journal filled with quotes, prompts, and questions, along with coloring and doodling pages, tiny buddha’s worry journal provides a number of different activities to help you reframe your worries and minimize anxiety in your daily life. if you have a hard time detaching from worrisome thoughts, this could be just what you need to learn to let go and ease your troubled mind. a few mindful minutes each day can create major change! more info tiny buddha's gratitude journal including questions and prompts pertaining to both your past and present, this journal will help you see your life through a new, more positive lens. the book also includes fifteen coloring pages, depicting awesome things we often take for granted, like nature and music. with space for written reflection, these pages provide all the benefits of coloring—including mindfulness and stress relief—and also guide you to recognize the beauty in the ordinary. more info tiny buddha's 365 tiny love challenges a simple guide to help you pursue a happy, connected life. each week includes an inspiring story from a tiny buddha community member (or two), followed by seven days of short challenges that focus on self-love, giving and receiving love in relationships and friendships, and spreading love in the world. with writing exercises sprinkled throughout and questions for the reflection on every page, the book will help you identify blocks to love—and move past them. more info tiny buddha's guide to loving yourself presents 40 unique perspectives and insights on topics related to loving yourself, including: realizing you're not broken, accepting your flaws, releasing the need for approval, forgiving yourself, letting go of comparisons, and learning to be authentic. featuring stories selected from hundreds of tinybuddha.com contributors, the book provides an honest look at what it means to overcome critical, self-judging thoughts to create a peaceful, empowered life. more info buy now tiny wisdom series: ebooks on love, happiness, and more the tiny wisdom ebooks share short reflections on the little things that make a huge difference in our daily lives. they're reminders of what matters and how to embrace it, right now, instead of focusing on all the things that only bring us down. buy the whole set, containing ebooks on love, self-love, mindfulness, pain, and love and get one free ($4.97 individually, $19.97 for the full set). more info buy now tiny buddha: simple wisdom for life's hard questions what's the meaning of life? what does it take to be happy? why are relationships so hard? author lori deschene explores these questions and more, sharing her own experience overcoming depression, isolation, self-loathing, and a sense of meaninglessness. including perspectives from @tinybuddha twitter followers and insights from wise teachers around the world and throughout time, tiny buddha provides an empowering guide for personal happiness, even in a world with so much uncertainty. more info buy now more quote widget you can now embed a daily wisdom quote right on your site with the tiny buddha quote widget for wordpress. this plugin will deliver a random quote from the tiny buddha archives (800 quotes and growing) each day. more info free download buddha desktop wallpaper "tiny green buddha" by joshua denney (actual buddha available for purchase on amazon). currently available in fullhd resolution, it's suitable for most desktop monitors. the quote: "all that we are is the result of what we have thought. the mind is everything. what we think, we become." ~buddha free download letting go of difficult emotions in this 54-page ebook, you’ll learn a few techniques to let go of anger, resentment, frustration, anxiety, and self-judgment. name your own price! the suggested payment is $5; however, you can pay as little as $1. more info balance wallpaper available in 4k resolution in portrait or landscape formats, this wallpaper is suitable for most desktops and mobile devices. free gift for new email subscribers only. the quote: "life is all about balance. you don't always need to be getting stuff done. sometimes it's perfectly okay, and absolutely necessary, to shut down, kick back, and do nothing." ~lori deschene subscribe to download just breathe wallpaper available in 4k resolution in portrait or landscape formats, this wallpaper is suitable for most desktops and mobile devices. free gift for new email subscribers only. the quote: "just breathe. you are strong enough to handle your challenges, wise enough to find solutions to your problems, and capable enough to do whatever needs to be done." ~lori deschene subscribe to download good enough wallpaper available in 4k resolution in portrait or landscape formats, this wallpaper is suitable for most desktops and mobile devices. free gift for new email subscribers only. the quote "at the end of the day, remind yourself that you did the best you could today and that is good enough." ~lori deschene subscribe to download disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top