bustle books ‘little fires everywhere’ author celeste ng on crafting to unwind & working with reeseby samantha leach 21 quarantine reads from your favorite authors whether you're self-quarantined or under a shelter-in-place order, you might find yourself feeling a little bit restless. but remember that everyone is in this together — even the authors whose books are on your nightstand right now. bustle has put…by k.w. colyard the best books of 2020 — if you read anything this year, make it one of these books want to spice up your tbr with the best books of 2020 so far? you're in luck, because bustle has put together an ongoing list of the finest books the year has to offer below. whether you're looking for your next great read, or making sure you…by k.w. colyard bustle book club week 1: sydney sweeney on chapters 1-3 of ‘we used to be friends’ on thursday, march 26, sydney sweeney kicked off the inaugural meeting of her new book club partnership with bustle, during which she discussed amy spalding's ya novel, we used to be friends on instagram. though sweeney's been an avid reader…by bustle editors how 'unorthodox' could continue in season 2, despite being a mini-series spoilers ahead for unorthodox season 1. though netflix's unorthodox is billed as a limited series, it's not impossible that it could return for season 2, considering that season 1 closes on such an open-ended note. throughout the show's four…by rebecca patton the true story behind 'the queen's fortune' has major meghan markle parallels this year there’s a rich new slate of historical works that share the stories of overlooked women who quietly made their mark on history. books like katherine sharp landdeck’s the women with silver wings, which examines the role of female pilots in…by k.w. colyard 'little fires everywhere' finally realized it's a coming out story as a stan of celeste ng’s novel little fires everywhere, i’d been anxious to watch the reese witherspoon-fronted hulu series. the book tells poignant stories about motherhood and race in the 1990s. but because i’m gay and therefore i watch or read…by jill gutowitz why you should *definitely* read 'little fires everywhere' before watching it hulu's little fires everywhere, the tv miniseries adaptation of celeste ng's 2017 novel of the same name, premiered on mar. 18, and it already has fans waiting to find out what's coming to shaker heights, ohio. if you're not familiar with the…by k.w. colyard the town in 'little fires everywhere' has just as many weird rules in real life the first few episodes of hulu's little fires everywhere introduce us to the picturesque town of shaker heights, ohio. the lawns are manicured, the colonial houses are charming, and the community is tight-knit. despite the uncanny nature of shaker…by ivana rihter readers turn to romance novels in tough times — coronavirus is no exception in case you haven’t noticed, the coronavirus outbreak has completely upended the world of dating and relationships as we know it. the divorce rate spiked after couples in china came out of government-mandated isolation. all of a sudden facetime…by lily herman why jamie's plan to kill bonnet on 'outlander' will probably fail spoilers ahead for episode 6 of outlander season 5. though brianna is aware that bonnet is alive because she overheard lord grey tell jamie that there'd been sightings of him, jamie and claire have yet to tell her they know themselves. that's…by caitlin gallagher read 'we used to be friends' by amy spalding with sydney sweeney & bustle now here at bustle we’ve long been obsessed with sydney sweeney’s performances. from amy adams’ troubled roommate in sharp objects, to the ill-fated eden in the handmaid’s tale, and her breakout role as cassie in euphoria — the rising star lights up the…by bustle editors 'letter for the king' season 2 could follow tiuri on a new, dangerous quest netflix's new fantasy series, the letter for the king, follows an aspiring young knight named tiuri (amir wilson) who's tasked with bringing a message to king unauwen. the show is based on dutch author tonke dragt's 1962 book of the same name. and…by rebecca patton 8 ways to support your local bookstore while quarantining as parts of the u.s. enforce statewide lockdowns to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, people have begun to wonder how they can support local businesses that might be threatened by the sudden lack of foot traffic. and one type of business…by k.w. colyard 'penance' viewers have a shock twist ahead, based on the book's ending channel 5’s new three-part lusty thriller penance couldn’t have come at a better time. it focuses on the douglases, a family who have lost their son and brother and are at breaking point. a stranger comes into their home to seemingly ease their…by alice broster what 'little fires everywhere' star lexi underwood learned from kerry washington lexi underwood is no stranger to transience. before making her broadway debut in the lion king at 11, she weathered the grueling schedule of the show’s touring production, living out of hotels and traveling around the country. the 16-year-old actor…by ivana rihter 10 tips for hosting a digital book club if you've ever dreamed of starting a book club, but worried you didn't have the right space to do it in, we've got some great news for you: meeting up in person is no longer the only way. starting an online reading group with friends is simple if…by sadie trombetta and k.w. colyard here's how hulu's 'little fires everywhere' differs from the novel spoilers ahead for little fires everywhere episodes 1-3. now that celeste ng's beloved 2017 novel has been adapted into a hulu miniseries, it's only natural to compare the two against each other. and while the show is incredibly faithful to its…by rebecca patton 19 books to read when you have a lot of alone time reading is usually thought of as a solitary activity. but in the age of social media, it's actually hard to find yourself reading alone. whether you're tearing apart a book in your book club, jamming your face into your book on the train to…by crystal paul and k.w. colyard 25 romance novels & erotic books to keep you company during quarantine no matter your relationship status, chances are the coronavirus is disrupting your love life. for those in a relationship, it may be becoming harder to get that quality time in with your significant other while practicing social distancing. if…by k.w. colyard this is who jemmy's biological father is in the 'outlander' books spoilers ahead for outlander season 5. though brianna and roger haven't directly encountered stephen bonnet for months, his presence continues to loom over outlander — namely in regards to their son, jemmy. bree previously told bonnet that jemmy is…by caitlin gallagher newsentertainmentbeautyfashionlifestylebookshealthwomen's history monthspread the lovevideo about usadvertisetermsprivacydmcacontact uscoupons